Document

Freeport-McMoRan 

Reports Fourth-Quarter and Year Ended 2021 Results

•Achieved 19 percent increase in copper sales and 59 percent increase in gold sales in 2021

•Successful ramp-up of Grasberg underground mines

•Strong financial results and cash flow generation

•Commenced implementation of performance-based shareholder payout framework

•Advancing organic growth initiatives

•Favorable operational and market outlook

▪Net income attributable to common stock in fourth-quarter 2021 totaled $1.1 billion, $0.74 per share, and adjusted net income attributable to common stock totaled $1.4 billion, or $0.96 per share, after excluding net charges totaling $0.3 billion, $0.21 per share.

▪Consolidated sales totaled 1.02 billion pounds of copper, 395 thousand ounces of gold and 19 million pounds of molybdenum in fourth-quarter 2021, and 3.8 billion pounds of copper, 1.4 million ounces of gold and 82 million pounds of molybdenum for the year 2021. Consolidated sales for the year 2022 are expected to approximate 4.3 billion pounds of copper, 1.6 million ounces of gold and 80 million pounds of molybdenum, including 970 million pounds of copper, 380 thousand ounces of gold and 20 million pounds of molybdenum in first-quarter 2022. 

▪Average realized prices in fourth-quarter 2021 were $4.42 per pound for copper, $1,808 per ounce for gold and $19.42 per pound for molybdenum.

▪Average unit net cash costs were $1.29 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2021 and $1.34 per pound of copper for the year 2021. Unit net cash costs are expected to average $1.35 per pound of copper for the year 2022.

▪Operating cash flows totaled $2.3 billion (including $0.4 billion from working capital and other sources) in fourth-quarter 2021 and $7.7 billion (including $0.8 billion from working capital and other sources) for the year 2021. Based on current sales volume and cost estimates, and assuming average prices of $4.50 per pound for copper, $1,800 per ounce for gold and $19.00 per pound for molybdenum, operating cash flows are expected to approximate $8.0 billion (net of $1.3 billion of working capital and other uses) for the year 2022. 

▪Capital expenditures totaled $0.8 billion (including $0.3 billion for major mining projects and $0.1 billion for the Indonesia smelter projects) in fourth-quarter 2021 and $2.1 billion (including $1.25 billion for major mining projects and $0.2 billion for the Indonesia smelter projects) for the year ended 2021. Capital expenditures for the year 2022 are expected to approximate $4.7 billion ($3.3 billion excluding the Indonesia smelter projects), including $2.0 billion for major mining projects.

▪In November 2021, FCX's Board of Directors (Board) approved a new share repurchase program authorizing repurchases of up to $3.0 billion of FCX's common stock (through January 25, 2022, FCX has acquired 15.4 million shares for a total cost of $599.9 million, $39.03 per share) and approved an increase in common stock dividends. The combined annual rate of the base dividend and the variable dividend approved by the Board is expected to total $0.60 per share in 2022. 

▪At December 31, 2021, consolidated debt totaled $9.5 billion and consolidated cash and cash equivalents totaled $8.1 billion, resulting in net debt of $1.4 billion (refer to the supplemental schedule, "Net Debt," on page IX). FCX had no borrowings and $3.5 billion available under its revolving credit facility at December 31, 2021.

▪FCX added two new independent directors during fourth-quarter 2021: Ryan M. Lance and Hugh Grant. With these appointments, FCX's Board is now comprised of eleven directors, including ten independent directors. FCX has successfully achieved its Board refreshment objectives adding six new directors in 2021, enhancing the skills, experience and diversity of the Board.

1

PHOENIX, AZ, January 26, 2022 - Freeport-McMoRan Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported fourth-quarter 2021 net income attributable to common stock of $1.1 billion, $0.74 per share, and adjusted net income attributable to common stock of $1.4 billion, $0.96 per share, after excluding net charges totaling $0.3 billion, $0.21 per share, primarily associated with adjustments to reclamation liabilities at PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI) and charges for PT-FI historical contested tax matters. For additional information, refer to the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII. 

Richard C. Adkerson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "I am incredibly proud of our Freeport team’s stellar performance during 2021 to deliver growth in volumes, solid cost and capital management in a challenging environment and to advance our sustainability objectives. We are positioned for a bright future as a leading, responsible, long-term supplier of copper to support the global economy and the transition to clean energy. We have a clear strategy of being foremost in copper, our balance sheet is strong and the prospects for our business have never been brighter. Our team is focused on continuing strong execution and generating strong cash flows to support advancement of organic growth initiatives and increase cash returns to shareholders under our established financial policy. Our success will support value creation for all stakeholders."

SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.For segment financial results, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

b.Includes favorable (unfavorable) adjustments to prior period provisionally priced concentrate and cathode copper sales totaling $187 million ($75 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.05 per share) in fourth-quarter 2021, $113 million ($41 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.03 per share) in fourth-quarter 2020, $169 million ($65 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.04 per share) for the year 2021 and $(102) million ($(42) million to net income attributable to common stock or $(0.03) per share) for the year 2020. For further discussion, refer to the supplemental schedule, "Derivative Instruments," beginning on page IX.

c.Includes net (charges) credits totaling $(315) million ($(0.21) per share) in fourth-quarter 2021, $142 million ($0.10 per share) in fourth-quarter 2020, $(331) million ($(0.22) per share) for the year 2021 and $(191) million ($(0.13) per share) for the year 2020 that are described in the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII.

d.FCX defers recognizing profits on intercompany sales until final sales to third parties occur. For a summary of net impacts from changes in these deferrals, refer to the supplemental schedule, "Deferred Profits," on page X.

e.Working capital and other sources totaled $388 million in fourth-quarter 2021, $346 million in fourth-quarter 2020, $755 million for the year 2021 and $665 million for the year 2020.

2

SUMMARY OPERATING DATA

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects per pound weighted-average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for all copper mines, before net noncash and other costs. For reconciliations of per pound unit costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIII. 

b.Includes nonrecurring labor-related charges at Cerro Verde for collective labor agreements reached with its hourly employees totaling $0.02 per pound of copper for fourth-quarter 2021 and the year 2021. Refer to the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII.

c.Excludes charges totaling $0.06 per pound of copper associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and FCX's April 2020 revised operating plans. Refer to the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII. 

Responsible Production

The Copper Mark. FCX is committed to validating all of its copper producing sites with The Copper Mark, a comprehensive assurance framework designed to demonstrate the copper industry's responsible production practices. To achieve The Copper Mark, each site is required to complete an external assurance process to assess conformance with 32 environmental, social and governance requirements. In fourth-quarter 2021, FCX achieved the Copper Mark at Bagdad. To date, FCX has a total of seven sites that have been validated (Bagdad, Morenci, Miami, El Paso, Cerro Verde, El Abra and Atlantic Copper), and FCX has commenced The Copper Mark assessment process at four additional sites in North America, specifically Chino, Tyrone, Safford and Sierrita.

International Council of Mining and Metals (ICMM). FCX is a founding and active member of the ICMM, an international organization dedicated to safe, fair and sustainable mining. FCX commits to implementing ICMM's Mining Principles which serve as a best practice framework on sustainable development for the global mining and metals industry. Richard Adkerson, FCX’s Chairman and CEO, serves as the current Chair of ICMM.

Consolidated Sales Volumes

Fourth-quarter 2021 copper sales of 1.02 billion pounds approximated the October 2021 estimate of 1.025 billion pounds of copper. Fourth-quarter 2021 copper sales were higher than fourth-quarter 2020 sales of 866 million pounds of copper, primarily reflecting the ramp-up of underground mining at PT-FI and higher milling rates in North America and South America. 

Fourth-quarter 2021 gold sales of 395 thousand ounces were 5 percent above the October 2021 estimate of 375 thousand ounces of gold, primarily reflecting higher throughput rates. Fourth-quarter 2021 gold sales were higher than fourth-quarter 2020 sales of 293 thousand ounces, primarily reflecting the ramp-up of underground mining at PT-FI. 

Fourth-quarter 2021 molybdenum sales of 19 million pounds were lower than the October 2021 estimate of 22 million pounds and fourth-quarter 2020 sales of 21 million pounds, primarily reflecting timing of shipments.

3

Consolidated sales volumes for the year 2022 are expected to approximate 4.3 billion pounds of copper, 1.6 million ounces of gold and 80 million pounds of molybdenum, including 970 million pounds of copper, 380 thousand ounces of gold and 20 million pounds of molybdenum in first-quarter 2022. Projected sales volumes are dependent on operational performance, weather-related conditions, timing of shipments and other factors detailed in the Cautionary Statement below.

Consolidated Unit Net Cash Costs 

Consolidated average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for FCX's copper mines of $1.29 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2021, were higher than the October 2021 estimate of $1.26 per pound, primarily reflecting nonrecurring labor-related charges at Cerro Verde for collective labor agreements, and approximated the fourth-quarter 2020 average of $1.28 per pound. 

Assuming average prices of $1,800 per ounce of gold and $19.00 per pound of molybdenum for 2022 and achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for FCX's copper mines are expected to average $1.35 per pound of copper for the year 2022 (including $1.35 per pound of copper in first-quarter 2022). The impact of price changes on 2022 consolidated unit net cash costs would approximate $0.03 per pound of copper for each $100 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $0.02 per pound of copper for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. Quarterly unit net cash costs vary with fluctuations in sales volumes and realized prices, primarily for gold and molybdenum. 

MINING OPERATIONS 

North America Copper Mines.  FCX operates seven open-pit copper mines in North America - Morenci, Bagdad, Safford (including Lone Star), Sierrita and Miami in Arizona, and Chino and Tyrone in New Mexico. In addition to copper, certain of these mines produce molybdenum concentrate, gold and silver. All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci. FCX records its 72 percent undivided joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method. 

Operating and Development Activities. FCX has substantial reserves and future opportunities in the United States (U.S.), primarily associated with existing mining operations. Current operations at the Lone Star copper leach project, which was completed in the second half of 2020, are exceeding the initial design capacity of 200 million pounds annually and produced approximately 235 million pounds of copper in 2021. FCX continues to advance opportunities to increase Lone Star operating rates and is advancing plans to increase volumes to achieve 300 million pounds of copper per year from oxide ores. The oxide project advances the opportunity for development of the large-scale sulfide resources at Lone Star. FCX is increasing exploration in the area to support metallurgical testing and mine development planning for a potential long-term investment in a concentrator.

FCX is also evaluating an expansion of the Bagdad operation in northwest Arizona and is engaging stakeholders. Feasibility studies to double Bagdad's operating rates are expected to commence in 2022.

FCX continues to advance initiatives to recover additional copper from its large existing leach stockpiles. There are several initiatives ongoing across FCX's Americas footprint which incorporate new applications, technologies and data analytics. Initial results are encouraging and support additional work on these emerging opportunities. 

4

Operating Data.  Following is summary consolidated operating data for the North America copper mines: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Refer to summary operating data on page 3 for FCX's consolidated molybdenum sales, which include sales of molybdenum produced at the North America copper mines.

b.For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIII. 

c.Excludes charges totaling $0.02 per pound of copper primarily associated with the April 2020 revised operating plans (including employee separation costs) and the COVID-19 pandemic (including health and safety costs).

FCX's consolidated copper sales volumes from North America of 364 million pounds in fourth-quarter 2021 were higher than fourth-quarter 2020 copper sales volumes of 320 million pounds, primarily reflecting the successful ramp-up of production from Lone Star and the restart of mining and milling operations at Chino. North America copper sales are estimated to approximate 1.55 billion pounds for the year 2022.

Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the North America copper mines of $1.90 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2021 were higher than fourth-quarter 2020 unit net cash costs of $1.76 per pound, primarily reflecting higher mining and milling costs associated with the return to pre-COVID-19 operating rates and higher maintenance and input costs, partly offset by higher sales volumes and by-product credits.

Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the North America copper mines are expected to approximate $2.00 per pound of copper for the year 2022, based on achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming an average molybdenum price of $19.00 per pound. North America's average unit net cash costs for the year 2022 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. 

South America Mining.  FCX operates two copper mines in South America - Cerro Verde in Peru (in which FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest) and El Abra in Chile (in which FCX owns a 51 percent interest). These operations are consolidated in FCX's financial statements. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrate and silver. 

Operating and Development Activities.  Milling rates at Cerro Verde's concentrator facilities averaged 376,700 metric tons of ore per day in fourth-quarter 2021 and 380,300 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2021. Subject to ongoing monitoring of COVID-19 protocols, Cerro Verde is targeting milling rates to increase to approximately 400,000 metric tons of ore per day during 2022.

El Abra increased operating rates to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels during 2021. Increased mining and stacking activities are expected to result in a 30 percent increase in El Abra copper production for the year 2022, compared with the year 2021.

FCX continues to evaluate a large-scale expansion at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher copper recoveries. El Abra's large sulfide resource could potentially support a major mill project similar to the facilities constructed at Cerro Verde in 2015. Technical and economic studies continue to be evaluated 

5

to determine the optimal scope and timing for the sulfide project, and FCX is engaging stakeholders and preparing data required for submission of a robust permit application. FCX is continuing to monitor potential changes in regulatory and fiscal matters in Chile and will defer major investment decisions pending clarity on these matters.

Operating Data.  Following is summary consolidated operating data for South America mining:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Refer to summary operating data on page 3 for FCX's consolidated molybdenum sales, which include sales of molybdenum produced at Cerro Verde.

b.For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIII.

c.Includes $0.06 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2021 and $0.09 per pound of copper for the year 2021 associated with nonrecurring labor-related charges at Cerro Verde. Refer to the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII.

d.Excludes charges totaling $0.09 per pound of copper, primarily associated with idle facility (Cerro Verde) and contract cancellation costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and employee separation costs associated with the April 2020 revised operating plans.

FCX's consolidated copper sales volumes from South America of 286 million pounds in fourth-quarter 2021 were higher than fourth-quarter 2020 copper sales volumes of 260 million pounds, primarily reflecting higher recovery rates at Cerro Verde. Copper sales from South America mining are expected to approximate 1.2 billion pounds for the year 2022.

Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for South America mining of $2.08 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2021 were higher than fourth-quarter 2020 unit net cash costs of $1.88 per pound, primarily reflecting nonrecurring labor-related charges at Cerro Verde for collective labor agreements (which cover 99 percent of its hourly employees as of December 31, 2021), increased profit-sharing costs and higher maintenance and input costs, partly offset by higher sales volumes and by-product credits.

Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for South America mining are expected to approximate $2.06 per pound of copper for the year 2022, based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming an average price of $19.00 per pound of molybdenum. 

6

Indonesia Mining. PT-FI operates one of the world’s largest copper and gold mines at the Grasberg minerals district in Papua, Indonesia. PT-FI produces copper concentrate that contains significant quantities of gold and silver. FCX has a 48.76 percent ownership interest in PT-FI and manages its mining operations. Under the terms of the shareholders agreement, FCX’s economic interest in PT-FI approximates 81 percent through 2022. PT-FI's results are consolidated in FCX's financial statements.

Operating and Development Activities. The ramp-up of underground production at PT-FI continues to advance on schedule. Fourth-quarter 2021 highlights include:

•Achieved quarterly copper and gold volumes approximating 100 percent of the projected ultimate annualized levels discussed below.

•21 new drawbells were constructed at the Grasberg Block Cave and Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) underground mines, bringing cumulative open drawbells to 510. 

•Combined average production from the Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ underground mines approximated 160,800 metric tons of ore per day and PT-FI's total milling rates averaged 181,000 metric tons of ore per day. 

PT-FI expects milling rates to average approximately 180,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2022. The installation of additional milling facilities at PT-FI are in progress and are currently expected to be completed in 2023, which will increase milling capacity to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day.

PT-FI expects average annual production of approximately 1.6 billion pounds of copper and 1.6 million ounces of gold for the next five years at an attractive unit net cash cost, providing significant margins and cash flows. 

PT-FI's estimated capital spending on the Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ underground projects for the year 2022 is expected to approximate $1.0 billion, net of scheduled contributions from PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Persero) (PT Inalum, also known as MIND ID). PT-FI is also advancing construction of a dual-fuel power plant and upgrades to the mill circuit to improve recoveries. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the aggregate costs (before scheduled contributions from PT Inalum), expected to approximate $1.2 billion for the year 2022, will be reflected as an investing activity in FCX's cash flow statement and contributions from PT Inalum will be reflected as a financing activity. 

Kucing Liar. In October 2021, PT-FI commenced long-term mine development activities for its Kucing Liar deposit, which is expected to produce over 6 billion pounds of copper and 5 million ounces of gold over the life of the project. Similar to PT-FI's experience with large-scale, block-cave mines, pre-production development activities will occur over an approximate 10-year timeframe. At full operating rates, annual production from Kucing Liar is expected to approximate 600 million pounds of copper and 500 thousand ounces of gold, providing PT-FI with sustained long-term, large-scale and low-cost production. Capital investments for Kucing Liar over the next 10 years are expected to average approximately $400 million per annum. Kucing Liar will benefit from substantial shared infrastructure and PT-FI's experience and long-term success in block-cave mining.

Indonesia Smelter. In connection with PT-FI’s 2018 agreement with the Indonesia government to secure the extension of its long-term mining rights, PT-FI committed to construct new domestic smelting capacity totaling 2 million metric tons of concentrate per year by December 2023. During 2020, PT-FI notified the Indonesia government of schedule delays resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and continues to review with the government a revised schedule for satisfying its commitment. 

PT-FI is actively engaged in the following projects for domestic smelting activities:

•Construction of a new greenfield smelter in Gresik, Indonesia with a capacity to process approximately 1.7 million metric tons of copper concentrate per year. In July 2021, PT-FI awarded a construction contract with an estimated cost of $2.8 billion. During 2021, PT-FI progressed site preparation activities and expects engineering procurement and construction activities to advance during 2022 and 2023. The smelter construction is expected to be completed as soon as feasible in 2024, which is subject to potential pandemic-related disruptions and other factors. 

•Expansion of PT Smelting's (PT-FI's 39.5-percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia) capacity by 30 percent to 1.3 million metric tons of concentrate per year, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. PT-FI completed agreements in November 2021 with the majority owner of PT Smelting to implement the expansion plans. PT-FI will fund the cost of the expansion, estimated to approximate $250 

7

million, and convert the loan to equity, increasing ownership in PT Smelting to a majority ownership interest once the expansion is complete. 

•Construction of a precious metals refinery (PMR) to process gold and silver from the new greenfield smelter and PT Smelting at an estimated cost of $250 million.

In July 2021, PT-FI entered into a $1.0 billion, five-year, unsecured bank credit facility to advance these projects. As of December 31, 2021, $443 million ($432 million net of debt issuance costs) was drawn under this facility. Additional debt financing is being evaluated to fund the projects, with the cost of debt shared 49 percent by FCX and 51 percent by PT Inalum.

Capital expenditures for the new greenfield smelter and PMR (collectively, the Indonesia smelter projects) totaled $0.2 billion for the year 2021, and are expected to approximate $1.4 billion for the year 2022. Construction of the new smelter capacity will result in the elimination of export duties, providing an offset to the economic cost associated with the Indonesia smelter projects.

Operating Data. Following is summary consolidated operating data for Indonesia mining:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIII. 

b.Excludes COVID-19 related costs (including one-time incremental employee benefits and health and safety costs) totaling $0.02 per pound of copper.

PT-FI's consolidated sales of 370 million pounds of copper and 392 thousand ounces of gold in fourth-quarter 2021 were higher than fourth-quarter 2020 consolidated sales of 286 million pounds of copper and 293 thousand ounces of gold, primarily reflecting the ramp-up of underground mining at PT-FI. Consolidated sales volumes from PT-FI are expected to approximate 1.6 billion pounds of copper and 1.6 million ounces of gold for the year 2022.

Because of the fixed nature of a large portion of PT-FI's costs, unit net cash costs depend on copper and gold volumes and gold prices. PT-FI's unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) of $0.08 per pound of copper in fourth-quarter 2021 were lower than $0.18 per pound in fourth-quarter 2020, primarily reflecting higher copper and gold sales volumes.

Average unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) for PT-FI are expected to approximate $0.18 per pound of copper for the year 2022, based on achievement of current sales volumes and cost estimates and assuming an average gold price of $1,800 per ounce. PT-FI's average unit net cash costs for the year 2022 would change by approximately $0.09 per pound of copper for each $100 per ounce change in the average price of gold.

8

Molybdenum Mines. FCX operates two wholly owned molybdenum mines in Colorado - the Henderson underground mine and the Climax open-pit mine. The Henderson and Climax mines produce high-purity molybdenum concentrate, which is typically further processed into value-added molybdenum chemical products. The majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced at the Henderson and Climax mines and at FCX's North America and South America copper mines is processed at FCX's conversion facilities.

Operating and Development Activities. Production from the molybdenum mines totaled 7 million pounds of molybdenum in fourth-quarter 2021 and 5 million pounds of molybdenum in fourth-quarter 2020. FCX plans to increase mining rates at the Climax mine in 2022 to provide options to increase volumes in response to market demand for molybdenum. FCX's consolidated molybdenum sales and average realized prices, which include sales of molybdenum produced at the Molybdenum mines and at FCX's North America and South America copper mines are presented on page 3.

Average unit net cash costs for the Molybdenum mines of $9.90 per pound of molybdenum in fourth-quarter 2021 were higher than average unit net cash costs of $9.23 per pound in fourth-quarter 2020, primarily reflecting increased costs associated with higher mining rates and higher maintenance and equipment costs. Based on current sales volume and cost estimates, average unit net cash costs for the Molybdenum mines are expected to approximate $12.50 per pound of molybdenum for the year 2022. 

For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedules, "Product Revenues and Production Costs," beginning on page XIII.

EXPLORATION

FCX's mining exploration activities are primarily associated with its existing mines, focusing on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity. Exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions at our existing properties in North America and South America. Exploration expenditures for the year 2022 are expected to approximate $110 million, compared with $50 million in 2021. FCX intends to increase its exploration expenditures during 2022 primarily to advance Lone Star and other opportunities at FCX's North America copper mines. FCX has long-lived reserves and a significant resource position in its existing portfolio.

PRELIMINARY ESTIMATED RECOVERABLE PROVEN AND PROBABLE MINERAL RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES

FCX has significant mineral reserves, mineral resources and future development opportunities within its portfolio of mining assets. FCX's preliminary estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves from its mines at December 31, 2021, include 107.2 billion pounds of copper, 27.1 million ounces of gold and 3.39 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using metal price assumptions of $2.50 per pound for copper, $1,200 per ounce for gold and $10.00 per pound for molybdenum. The preliminary estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which FCX expects to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable mineral reserve volumes are those which FCX estimates can be economically extracted or produced at the time of the mineral reserve determination. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9

a.Consolidated mineral reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for FCX's joint venture partners' interest at the Morenci mine in North America. Excluded from the table above are FCX's estimated recoverable proven and probable silver reserves of 345.7 million ounces, which were determined using $15 per ounce.

b.Does not foot because of rounding.

c.Net equity interest mineral reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. FCX's net equity interest for estimated metal quantities in Indonesia reflects 81.27 percent through 2022 and 48.76 percent from 2023 through 2041. Excluded from the table above are FCX's estimated net recoverable proven and probable silver reserves of 230.5 million ounces.

Following is a summary of changes in FCX's preliminary estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves during 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to the preliminary estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves, FCX's preliminary estimated mineral resources (including measured, indicated and inferred resources) at December 31, 2021, which were assessed using $3.00 per pound for copper, totaled 191 billion pounds of incremental contained copper. FCX continues to pursue opportunities to convert this material into mineral reserves, future production volumes and cash flow. See Cautionary Statement below.

CASH FLOWS, CASH AND DEBT

Operating Cash Flows.  FCX generated operating cash flows of $2.3 billion (including $0.4 billion from working capital and other sources) in fourth-quarter 2021 and $7.7 billion (including $0.8 billion from working capital and other sources) for the year 2021.

Based on current sales volume and cost estimates, and assuming average prices of $4.50 per pound of copper, $1,800 per ounce of gold and $19.00 per pound of molybdenum, FCX's consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to approximate $8.0 billion (net of $1.3 billion of working capital and other uses) for the year 2022. The impact of price changes during 2022 on operating cash flows would approximate $365 million for each $0.10 per pound change in the average price of copper, $100 million for each $100 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $110 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum.

Capital Expenditures.  Capital expenditures totaled $0.8 billion in fourth-quarter 2021 (including $0.3 billion for major mining projects and $0.1 billion for the Indonesia smelter projects) and $2.1 billion for the year 2021 (including $1.25 billion for major mining projects and $0.2 billion for the Indonesia smelter projects).

Capital expenditures for the year 2022 are expected to approximate $4.7 billion ($3.3 billion excluding the Indonesia smelter projects), including $2.0 billion for major mining projects ($1.4 billion for underground development activities associated with the Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ and $0.6 billion for discretionary growth projects). Capital expenditures for the Indonesia smelter projects are currently being funded through PT-FI's $1.0 billion unsecured bank credit facility. 

Cash. Following is a summary of the U.S. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents available to the parent company, net of noncontrolling interests' share, taxes and other costs at December 31, 2021 (in billions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

Debt. Following is a summary of total debt and the weighted-average interest rates at December 31, 2021 (in millions, except percentages): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Matures in June 2022.

b.As of December 31, 2021, $557 million was available under PT-FI's $1.0 billion, five year, unsecured bank credit facility.

At December 31, 2021, FCX had no borrowings, $8 million in letters of credit issued and $3.5 billion available under its revolving credit facility. 

On December 1, 2021, FCX redeemed $524 million in principal amount outstanding of its 3.55% Senior Notes due 2022, at a redemption price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. FCX's next senior note maturity is March 2023, with redemption rights at par in December 2022.

FINANCIAL POLICY 

In February 2021, the Board adopted a financial policy for the allocation of cash flows aligned with FCX’s strategic objectives of maintaining a strong balance sheet and increasing cash returns to shareholders while advancing opportunities for future growth.

Following achievement of FCX’s net debt target in the range of $3.0 billion to $4.0 billion (excluding debt for additional smelting capacity in Indonesia), FCX announced in November 2021 the implementation of a performance-based shareholder returns policy, including the commencement of a $3.0 billion share repurchase program and expected base and variable dividends on common stock totaling $0.60 per share for 2022. The policy is being implemented to direct up to 50 percent of cash flows, after planned capital spending (excluding Indonesia smelter project investments) and distributions to noncontrolling interests, to shareholder returns with the balance available for investments in future value enhancing growth projects and further debt reductions. The Board will review the structure and the amount of performance-based payout framework at least annually. 

On December 22, 2021, FCX declared dividends totaling $0.15 per share on its common stock (which included a $0.075 per share quarterly base cash dividend and a $0.075 per share quarterly variable cash dividend), which will be paid on February 1, 2022, to shareholders of record as of January 14, 2022. The declaration and payment of dividends (base or variable) is at the discretion of the Board and will depend on FCX's financial results, cash requirements, business prospects, global economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.

Through January 25, 2022, FCX acquired 15.4 million shares of FCX's common stock for a total cost of $599.9 million ($39.03 per share) under its $3.0 billion share repurchase program, including 12.7 million shares for a total cost of $488.2 million ($38.32 per share) in fourth-quarter 2021. The timing and amount of share repurchases is at the discretion of management and will depend on a variety of factors. The share repurchase program may be modified, increased, suspended or terminated at any time at the Board’s discretion. 

WEBCAST INFORMATION

A conference call with securities analysts to discuss FCX's fourth-quarter and year-ended 2021 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides. Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing “fcx.com.” A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, February 25, 2022.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11

FREEPORT: Foremost in Copper 

FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum. FCX is one of the world’s largest publicly traded copper producers.

FCX’s portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, one of the world’s largest copper and gold deposits; and significant mining operations in North America and South America, including the large-scale Morenci minerals district in Arizona and the Cerro Verde operation in Peru.

By supplying responsibly produced copper, FCX is proud to be a positive contributor to the world well beyond its operational boundaries. Additional information about FCX is available on FCX's website at fcx.com.

Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure: This press release contains forward-looking statements in which FCX discusses its potential future performance. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as plans, projections, or expectations relating to business outlook, strategy, goals or targets; ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; capital expenditures; operating costs; operating plans; cash flows; liquidity; PT-FI’s development, financing, construction and completion of new domestic smelting capacity in Indonesia in accordance with the terms of its special mining license (IUPK); FCX’s commitments to deliver responsibly produced copper, including plans to implement and validate all of its operating sites under The Copper Mark and to comply with other disclosure frameworks; execution of FCX's energy and climate strategies and the underlying assumptions and estimated impacts on FCX’s business related thereto; achievement of climate commitments by 2030 and 2050 net zero aspirations; improvements in operating procedures and technology innovations; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities, rates and costs; future organic growth opportunities; tax rates; export quotas and duties; the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates; final resolution of settlements associated with ongoing legal proceedings; and the ongoing implementation of FCX’s financial policy and future returns to shareholders, including dividend payments (base or variable) and share repurchases. The words “anticipates,” “may,” “can,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “targets,” “intends,” “likely,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “to be,” “potential,” “assumptions,” “guidance,” “aspirations,” “future” and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. The timing and amount of any share repurchases is at the discretion of management and will depend on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, FCX’s operating performance, cash flow and financial position, the market price of the shares and general economic and market conditions. The share repurchase program may be modified, increased, suspended or terminated at any time at the Board’s discretion. The declaration and payment of dividends (base or variable) is also at the discretion of the Board and will depend on FCX’s financial results, cash requirements, business prospects, global economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.

FCX cautions readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, expected, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that can cause FCX's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, changes in FCX’s cash requirements, financial position, financing or investment plans; political and social risks; changes in general market, economic, tax, regulatory or industry conditions; the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and any future public health crisis; supply of and demand for, and prices of, copper, gold and molybdenum; mine sequencing; changes in mine plans or operational modifications, delays, deferrals or cancellations; production rates; timing of shipments; results of technical, economic or feasibility studies; potential inventory adjustments; potential impairment of long-lived mining assets; the potential effects of violence in Indonesia generally and in the province of Papua; the Indonesia government’s extension of PT-FI’s export license after March 15, 2022; operational risks inherent in mining, with higher inherent risks in underground mining; satisfaction of requirements in accordance with PT-FI’s IUPK to extend mining rights from 2031 through 2041; the Indonesia government’s approval of a deferred schedule for completion of new domestic smelting capacity in Indonesia; labor relations, including labor-related work stoppages and costs; weather- and climate-related risks; environmental risks and litigation results; cybersecurity incidents; FCX’s ability to comply with its responsible production commitments under specific frameworks and any changes to such frameworks and other factors described in more detail under the heading “Risk Factors” in FCX’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions upon which FCX’s forward-looking statements are based are likely to change after the date the forward-looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which FCX cannot control, and production volumes and costs or technological solutions and innovation, some aspects of which FCX may not be able to control. Further, FCX may make changes to its business plans that could affect its results. FCX cautions investors that it undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, notwithstanding any changes in its assumptions, changes in business plans, actual experience or other changes.

This press release also includes forward-looking statements regarding mineral resources not included in proven and probable mineral reserves. A mineral resource, which includes measured, indicated and inferred mineral resources, is a concentration or occurrence of material of economic interest in or on the Earth’s crust in such form, grade or quality, and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for economic extraction. Such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development and operating costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineral resources will become proven and probable mineral reserves.

This press release also contains financial measures such as net debt, adjusted net income and unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum, which are not recognized under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCX’s consolidated financial statements are in the supplemental schedules of this press release.

12

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

I

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

II

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

III

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales. For a summary of adjustments to provisionally priced copper sales, refer to the supplemental schedule, "Derivative Instruments," beginning on page IX. 

b.Includes net charges primarily associated with international tax matters and other net charges totaling $90 million in fourth-quarter 2020 and $62 million for the year 2020, which are summarized in the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII.

c.Includes a PT-FI asset retirement obligation (ARO) adjustment and other net charges totaling $571 million in fourth-quarter 2021, $58 million in fourth-quarter 2020, $624 million for the year 2021 and $65 million for the year 2020, which are summarized in the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII.

d.Includes nonrecurring labor-related charges at Cerro Verde for collective labor agreements totaling $18 million in fourth-quarter 2021 and $92 million for the year 2021, which are summarized in the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII.

e.Includes other net credits primarily associated with refunds of Arizona transaction privilege taxes related to purchased electricity and adjustments to prior year profit sharing at Cerro Verde totaling $80 million in fourth-quarter 2021 and $68 million for the year 2021, which are summarized in the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII.

f.Includes COVID-19 related charges totaling $129 million and charges associated with the April 2020 revised operating plans (including employee separation costs) totaling $129 million, which are summarized in the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII. 

g.The fourth-quarter and year 2020 include a charge associated with talc litigation ($130 million), partly offset by net favorable environmental reserve adjustments ($39 million in fourth-quarter 2020 and $19 million for the year 2020), which are summarized in the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII.

h.The fourth-quarter and year 2020 primarily include $486 million associated with the sale of the Kisanfu exploration project. 

i.Consolidated interest costs (before capitalization) totaled $192 million in fourth-quarter 2021, $255 million in fourth-quarter 2020, $674 million for the year 2021 and $745 million for the year 2020. Includes adjustments to interest costs associated with international tax matters, which are summarized in the supplemental schedule, "Adjusted Net Income," beginning on page VII (refer to footnotes b and d for the 2021 periods and footnotes c and e for the 2020 periods).

j.For a summary of FCX's income taxes, refer to the supplemental schedule, "Income Taxes," beginning on page VIII.

k.FCX defers recognizing profits on intercompany sales until final sales to third parties occur. For a summary of net impacts from changes in these deferrals, refer to the supplemental schedule, "Deferred Profits," on page X.

IV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a. Includes $4.6 billion associated with the December 2018 PT-FI transaction, including $4.1 billion associated with the PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Persero) acquisition of Rio Tinto's joint venture interest. 

V

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes $340 million associated with an ARO adjustment at PT-FI. 

b.Cerro Verde paid the balance of its royalty dispute liabilities in third-quarter 2021. 

c.Includes restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents of $246 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020.

VI

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

ADJUSTED NET INCOME

Adjusted net income is intended to provide investors and others with information about FCX's recurring operating performance. This information differs from net income attributable to common stock determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. FCX's adjusted net income follows, which may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies (in millions, except per share amounts). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects impact to FCX net income attributable to common stock (i.e., net of any taxes and noncontrolling interests).

b.Reflects charges primarily associated with contested matters (including historical tax audits and an administrative fine levied by the Indonesia government) and asset impairments, which were recorded to production and delivery ($29 million for the year 2021), interest expense, net ($39 million in fourth-quarter 2021 and $47 million for the year 2021), and other (expenses) income, net ($192 million in fourth-quarter 2021 and $208 million for the year 2021). 

c.Reflects charges primarily associated with historical contested tax audits and currency exchange adjustments to value added tax receivables, which were recorded to interest expense, net ($35 million for the fourth quarter and year 2020) and other (expenses) income, net ($23 million in fourth-quarter 2020 and $30 million for the year 2020).

d.Reflects net credits in fourth-quarter 2021 primarily associated with refunds of Arizona transaction privilege taxes related to purchased electricity, adjustments to prior year profit sharing at Cerro Verde and the collection of fully reserved oil and gas receivables. The year 2021 also includes other net charges recorded to production and delivery primarily associated with employee separation charges and international tax matters, partly offset by favorable ARO adjustments in North America. These net credits were recorded to production and delivery ($57 million in fourth-quarter 2021 and $45 million for the year 2021), selling, general and administrative ($11 million for the fourth quarter and year 2021), interest expense, net ($7 million for the fourth quarter and year 2021) and to other (expenses) income, net ($5 million for the fourth quarter and year 2021). 

VII

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

ADJUSTED NET INCOME (continued)

e.Reflects net charges primarily associated with international tax matters, asset impairments and ARO adjustments, partly offset by net credits primarily associated with the sale of royalty assets. These net (charges) credits were recorded in revenues ($(7) million for the year 2020), production and delivery ($(41) million in fourth-quarter 2020 and $(48) million for the year 2020), interest expense, net ($(50) million in fourth-quarter 2020 and $(55) million for the year 2020) and to other expenses, net ($1 million in fourth-quarter 2020 and $48 million for the year 2020).

f.Includes charges primarily associated with a framework for the resolution of all current and future potential talc-related litigation ($130 million in fourth-quarter 2020 and $132 million for the year 2020), partly offset by net favorable adjustments to environmental reserves ($39 million in fourth-quarter 2020 and $19 million for the year 2020).

g.Refer to "Income Taxes" below for further discussion of net tax credits.

h.Does not foot because of rounding.

i.Primarily includes charges associated with (i) idle facility costs (Cerro Verde), contract cancellation and other charges directly related to the COVID-19 pandemic and (ii) the April 2020 revised operating plans (including employee separation costs), recorded in production and delivery ($202 million), depreciation, depletion and amortization ($32 million), selling, general and administrative ($16 million), and mining exploration and research ($8 million).

INCOME TAXES

Following is a summary of the approximate amounts used in the calculation of FCX's consolidated income tax provision (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Represents income before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies' net earnings.

b.In addition to FCX's North America mining operations, the U.S. jurisdiction reflects corporate-level expenses, which include interest expense associated with senior notes, general and administrative expenses, and environmental obligations and shutdown costs.

c.Includes valuation allowance release on prior year unbenefited net operating losses (NOLs).

d.The fourth-quarter and year 2021 include a tax benefit at Cerro Verde of $18 million ($9 million net of noncontrolling interest) primarily associated with completion of tax audits for the years 2014 and 2015.

e.The fourth-quarter and year 2020 include tax charges at Cerro Verde of $15 million ($8 million net of noncontrolling interest), primarily associated with adjustments to profit sharing for prior years. 

f.Includes net tax benefits associated with the release of valuation allowances recorded against PT Rio Tinto Indonesia NOLs totaling $120 million ($96 million net of noncontrolling interest) in fourth-quarter 2021 and $189 million ($151 million net of noncontrolling interest) for the year 2021. The year 2021 also includes a tax benefit of $24 million ($19 million net of noncontrolling interest), primarily associated with the reversal of a tax reserve related to the treatment of prior-year contractor support costs; partly offset by a tax charge of $10 million ($8 million net of noncontrolling interest) associated with the audit of PT-FI's 2019 tax returns.

VIII

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

INCOME TAXES (continued)

g.In accordance with applicable accounting rules, FCX adjusts its interim provision for income taxes equal to its consolidated tax rate.

h.The year 2020 includes tax benefits of $53 million associated with the reversal of a year-end 2019 tax charge related to the sale of FCX's interest in the lower zone of the Timok exploration project in Serbia and $6 million associated with the removal of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets.

i.The year 2020 includes tax charges of $21 million ($17 million net of noncontrolling interests) associated with establishing a tax reserve related to the treatment of prior-year contractor support costs and $8 million ($7 million net of noncontrolling interest) associated with an unfavorable 2012 Indonesia Supreme Court ruling.

j.FCX's consolidated effective income tax rate is a function of the combined effective tax rates for the jurisdictions in which FCX operates, excluding the U.S. jurisdiction.

Assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and average prices of $4.50 per pound for copper, $1,800 per ounce for gold and $19.00 per pound for molybdenum, FCX estimates its consolidated effective tax rate for the year 2022 would approximate 30 percent. Changes in projected sales volumes and average prices during 2022 would incur tax impacts at estimated effective rates of 39 percent for Peru, 38 percent for Indonesia and 0 percent for the U.S. 

NET DEBT

Net debt, which FCX defines as consolidated debt less consolidated cash and cash equivalents, is intended to provide investors with information related to the performance-based payout framework in FCX’s financial policy, which requires achievement of a net debt target in the range of $3 billion to $4 billion (excluding project debt for additional smelting capacity in Indonesia). This information differs from consolidated debt determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for consolidated debt determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. FCX's net debt, which may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes $432 million, net of debt issuance costs, for the PT-FI Term Loan.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

For the year 2021, FCX's mined copper was sold 59 percent in concentrate, 21 percent as cathode and 20 percent as rod from North America operations. Substantially all of FCX's copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) monthly average copper prices. FCX records revenues and invoices customers at the time of shipment based on then-current LME prices, which results in an embedded derivative on provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period-end forward prices, until final pricing on the date of settlement. LME copper settlement prices averaged $4.40 per pound during fourth-quarter 2021 and settled at $4.40 per pound on December 31, 2021. Because a significant portion of FCX's copper concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of the average recorded copper price for the period. FCX's average realized copper price was $4.42 per pound in fourth-quarter 2021. 

Following is a summary of the adjustments to prior period and current period provisionally priced copper sales (in millions, except per share amounts):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects adjustments to provisionally priced copper sales at September 30, 2021 and 2020.

b.Reflects adjustments to provisionally priced copper sales during the fourth quarters of 2021 and 2020.

IX

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (continued)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects adjustments to provisionally priced copper sales at December 31, 2020 and 2019.

b.Reflects adjustments to provisionally priced copper sales for the years 2021 and 2020.

At December 31, 2021, FCX had provisionally priced copper sales at its copper mining operations totaling 397 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $4.42 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. FCX estimates that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the quarter-end provisional price would have an approximate $12 million effect on 2022 net income attributable to common stock. The LME copper price settled at $4.42 per pound on January 25, 2022.

DEFERRED PROFITS

FCX defers recognizing profits on sales from its mining operations to Atlantic Copper and on 39.5 percent of PT-FI's sales to PT Smelting (PT-FI's 39.5 percent-owned Indonesia smelting unit) until final sales to third parties occur. Changes in these deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in net (reductions) additions to operating income totaling $(44) million ($(10) million to net income attributable to common stock) in fourth-quarter 2021 and $20 million ($20 million to net income attributable to common stock) in fourth-quarter 2020, $(188) million ($(106) million to net income attributable to common stock) for the year 2021 and $(7) million ($1 million to net income attributable to common stock) for the year 2020. FCX's net deferred profits on its inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods' net income attributable to common stock totaled $175 million at December 31, 2021. Quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in FCX's net deferred profits and quarterly earnings. Based on current estimates, FCX does not expect a significant change in its net deferred profits in first-quarter 2022.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

FCX has organized its mining operations into four primary divisions – North America copper mines, South America mining, Indonesia mining and Molybdenum mines, and operating segments that meet certain thresholds are reportable segments. Separately disclosed in the following tables are FCX's reportable segments, which include the Morenci, Cerro Verde and Grasberg (Indonesia Mining) copper mines, the Rod & Refining operations and Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining. 

Intersegment sales between FCX’s business segments are based on terms similar to arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale. Intersegment sales may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, the timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums. 

FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to its operating divisions and individual segments. However, not all costs and expenses applicable to an operation are allocated. U.S. federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level (included in Corporate, Other & Eliminations), whereas foreign income taxes are recorded and managed at the applicable country level. In addition, most mining exploration and research activities are managed on a consolidated basis, and those costs along with some selling, general and administrative costs, are not allocated to the operating divisions or individual segments. Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.

X

Freeport-McMoRan Inc. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes PT-FI's sales to PT Smelting totaling $789 million in fourth-quarter 2021 and $441 million in fourth-quarter 2020.

b.Includes revenues from FCX's molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced by the Molybdenum mines and by certain of the North America and South America copper mines.

c.Includes nonrecurring charges totaling $18 million associated with labor-related charges at Cerro Verde for collective labor agreements reached with its hourly employees. 

d.Includes charges totaling $340 million associated with unfavorable ARO change.

e.Includes capital expenditures for the Indonesia smelter projects of $143 million in fourth-quarter 2021 and $11 million in fourth-quarter 2020.

XI

Freeport-McMoRan Inc. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes PT-FI's sales to PT Smelting totaling $3.1 billion for the year 2021 and $1.8 billion for the year 2020.

b.Includes revenues from FCX's molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced by the Molybdenum mines and by certain of the North America and South America copper mines.

c.Includes nonrecurring charges totaling $92 million associated with labor-related charges at Cerro Verde for collective labor agreements reached with its hourly employees. 

d.Includes charges totaling $340 million associated with unfavorable ARO change.

e.Includes charges associated with the major maintenance turnaround at the Miami Smelter totaling $87 million.

f.Includes capital expenditures for the Indonesia smelter projects of $222 million for the year 2021 and $105 million for the year 2020.

XII

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

PRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTS

Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCX's mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These measures are presented by other metals mining companies, although FCX's measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a “by-product” method and a “co-product” method. FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCX's costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces and (iv) it is the method used by FCX's management and Board of Directors to monitor FCX's mining operations and to compare mining operations in certain industry publications. In the co-product method presentations, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCX's metals sales volumes and realized prices change.

FCX shows revenue adjustments for prior period open sales as a separate line item. Because these adjustments do not result from current period sales, these amounts have been reflected separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and other costs, which are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs, consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, long-lived asset impairments, idle facility costs, restructuring and/or unusual charges. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. The following schedules are presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements.

XIII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects sales of molybdenum produced by certain of the North America copper mines to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b.Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs.

c.Includes credits totaling $27 million ($0.07 per pound of copper) associated with refunds of Arizona transaction privilege taxes related to purchased electricity.

d.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XIV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects sales of molybdenum produced by certain of the North America copper mines to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b.Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs.

c.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects sales of molybdenum produced by certain of the North America copper mines to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b.Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs.

c.Includes credits totaling $27 million ($0.02 per pound of copper) associated with refunds of Arizona transaction privilege taxes related to purchased electricity.

d.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XVI

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects sales of molybdenum produced by certain of the North America copper mines to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b.Includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs.

c.Includes reductions to revenues and average realized prices totaling $24 million ($0.02 per pound of copper) related to forward sales contracts covering 150 million pounds of copper sales for May and June 2020 at a fixed price of $2.34 per pound.

d.Includes charges totaling $32 million ($0.02 per pound of copper) primarily associated with the April 2020 revised operating plans (including employee separation costs) and the COVID-19 pandemic (including health and safety costs).

e.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XVII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes silver sales of 1.0 million ounces ($21.86 per ounce average realized price). Also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b.Includes nonrecurring charges totaling $18 million ($0.06 per pound of copper) associated with labor-related charges at Cerro Verde for collective labor agreements reached with its hourly employees..

c.Includes credits totaling $26 million ($0.09 per pound) associated with favorable adjustments to prior-year profit sharing at Cerro Verde.

d.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XVIII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes silver sales of 0.9 million ounces ($27.87 per ounce average realized price). Also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XIX

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes silver sales of 3.7 million ounces ($24.73 per ounce average realized price). Also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b.Includes nonrecurring charges totaling $92 million ($0.09 per pound of copper) associated with labor-related charges at Cerro Verde for collective labor agreements reached with its hourly employees. 

c.Includes credits totaling $26 million ($0.03 per pound) associated with favorable adjustments to prior-year profit sharing at Cerro Verde.

d.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XX

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes silver sales of 3.4 million ounces ($21.86 per ounce average realized price). Also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by Cerro Verde to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing.

b.Includes charges totaling $91 million ($0.09 per pound of copper) primarily associated with idle facility (Cerro Verde) and contract cancellation costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and employee separation costs associated with the April 2020 revised operating plans. 

c.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XXI

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes silver sales of 1.6 million ounces ($22.76 per ounce average realized price).

b.Includes charges totaling $340 million ($0.92 per pound of copper) associated with an ARO adjustment.

c.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XXII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes silver sales of 1.3 million ounces ($25.01 per ounce average realized price).

b.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XXIII

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes silver sales of 5.9 million ounces ($24.30 per ounce average realized price).

b.Includes charges totaling $340 million ($0.26 per pound of copper) associated with an ARO adjustment. Also includes credits of $31 million ($0.02 per pound of copper) associated with adjustments to prior-year treatment and refining charges and charges of $16 million ($0.01 per pound of copper) associated with a potential settlement of an administrative fine levied by the Indonesia government.

c.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XXIV

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Includes silver sales of 3.6 million ounces ($22.40 per ounce average realized price).

b.Includes COVID-19 related costs (including one-time incremental employee benefits and healthy and safety costs) of $14 million ($0.02 per pound of copper).

c.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X.

XXV

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects sales of the Molybdenum mines' production to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. On a consolidated basis, realizations are based on the actual contract terms for sales to third parties; as a result, FCX's consolidated average realized price per pound of molybdenum will differ from the amounts reported in this table.

b.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X. Also includes amounts associated with FCX's molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced by the Molybdenum mines and by certain of the North America and South America copper mines.

XXVI

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

a.Reflects sales of the Molybdenum mines' production to FCX's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. On a consolidated basis, realizations are based on the actual contract terms for sales to third parties; as a result, FCX's consolidated average realized price per pound of molybdenum will differ from the amounts reported in this table.

b.Includes charges totaling $7 million ($0.29 per pound of molybdenum) primarily associated with the contract cancellation costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic and employee separation costs associated with April 2020 revised operating plans.

c.Represents the combined total for FCX's other mining operations as presented in the supplemental schedule, "Business Segments," beginning on page X. Also includes amounts associated with FCX's molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced by the Molybdenum mines and by certain of the North America and South America copper mines.