Document

Exhibit 99.1

Alphabet Announces Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2021 Results

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. – February 1, 2022 – Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG, GOOGL) today announced financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2021.

Sundar Pichai, CEO of Alphabet and Google, said: “Our deep investment in AI technologies continues to drive extraordinary and helpful experiences for people and businesses, across our most important products. Q4 saw ongoing strong growth in our advertising business, which helped millions of businesses thrive and find new customers, a quarterly sales record for our Pixel phones despite supply constraints, and our Cloud business continuing to grow strongly.”

Ruth Porat, CFO of Alphabet and Google, said: “Our fourth quarter revenues of $75 billion, up 32% year over year, reflected broad-based strength in advertiser spend and strong consumer online activity, as well as substantial ongoing revenue growth from Google Cloud. Our investments have helped us drive this growth by delivering the services that people, our partners and businesses need, and we continue to invest in long-term opportunities.”

Q4 2021 financial highlights

The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results for the quarters and years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021 (in millions, except for per share information and percentages).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q4 2021 supplemental information (in millions, except for number of employees; unaudited)

Revenues, Traffic Acquisition Costs (TAC) and number of employees

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Segment Operating Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Change in the useful lives of our server and network equipment (unaudited)

In January 2021, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment and adjusted the estimated useful life of our servers from three years to four years and the estimated useful life of certain network equipment from three years to five years. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning in fiscal year 2021, and the effect for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2021, respectively, was a reduction in depreciation expense of $446 million and $2.6 billion and an increase in net income of $347 million and $2.0 billion, or $0.52 and $3.02 per basic share and $0.52 and $2.98 per diluted share.

Stock Split Effected in Form of Stock Dividend (“Stock Split”)

Alphabet today announced that the Board of Directors had approved and declared a 20-for-one stock split (the “Stock Split”) in the form of a one-time special stock dividend on each share of the Company’s Class A, Class B, and Class C stock. The Stock Split is subject to stockholder approval of an amendment to the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Class A, Class B, and Class C stock to accommodate the Stock Split. 

If approval is obtained, each of the Company’s stockholders of record at the close of business on July 1, 2022 (the “Record Date”), will receive, after the close of business on July 15, 2022, a dividend of 19 additional shares of the same class of stock for every share held by such stockholder as of the Record Date.

Webcast and conference call information

A live audio webcast of our fourth quarter 2021 earnings release call will be available on YouTube at https://youtu.be/ItLfgdDN5oE. The call begins today at 2:00 PM (PT) / 5:00 PM (ET). This press release, including the reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, is also available at http://abc.xyz/investor.

2

We also provide announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs, on our investor relations website (http://abc.xyz/investor).

We also share Google news and product updates on Google’s Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which may be of interest or material to our investors. 

Forward-looking statements

This press release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted include, among others, those risks and uncertainties included under the captions “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, which are on file with the SEC and are available on our investor relations website at http://abc.xyz/investor and on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Additional information will also be set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. All information provided in this release and in the attachments is as of February 1, 2022. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this press release, which are based on information available to us on the date hereof. We undertake no duty to update this information unless required by law.

About non-GAAP financial measures

To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the following non-GAAP financial measures: free cash flow; constant currency revenues; and percentage change in constant currency revenues. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.

We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and liquidity by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our recurring core business operating results, such as our revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate management’s internal comparisons to our historical performance and liquidity as well as comparisons to our competitors’ operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business.

There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from these non-GAAP financial measures and evaluating these non-GAAP financial measures together with their relevant financial measures in accordance with GAAP.

For more information on these non-GAAP financial measures, please see the tables captioned “Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow” and “Reconciliation from GAAP revenues to non-GAAP constant currency revenues” included at the end of this release.

Contact

Investor relations

Media

investor-relations@abc.xyzpress@abc.xyz

3

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and par value per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions; unaudited):

We provide free cash flow because it is a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business and acquisitions, and to strengthen our balance sheet.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free cash flow: We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.

Reconciliation from GAAP revenues to non-GAAP constant currency revenues (in millions, except percentages; unaudited):

We provide non-GAAP constant currency revenues and the non-GAAP percentage change in constant currency revenues because they facilitate the comparison of current results to historic performance by excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, which are not indicative of our core operating results.

Comparison to the Quarter Ended December 31, 2020

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

Comparison to the Quarter Ended September 30, 2021

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Comparison to the Year Ended December 31, 2020

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-GAAP constant currency revenues and percentage change: We define non-GAAP constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and we use it to determine the constant currency revenue percentage change on year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter basis. Non-GAAP constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current quarter revenues using prior period exchange rates and excluding any hedging effect recognized in the current quarter. Constant currency revenue percentage change is calculated by determining the increase in current quarter non-GAAP constant currency revenues over prior period revenues, excluding any hedging effect recognized in the prior period.

8

Other income (expense), net

The following table presents our other income (expense), net (in millions; unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes all gains and losses, unrealized and realized, on equity investments. For Q4 2021, the net effect of the gain on equity securities of $2,650 million and the performance fees of $228 million increased the provision for income tax, net income, and diluted EPS by $509 million, $1,913 million, and $2.84, respectively. Fluctuations in the value of our investments may be affected by market dynamics and other factors and could significantly contribute to the volatility of OI&E in future periods.

Segment results

The following table presents our revenues and operating income (loss) (in millions; unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We report our segment results as Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets:

•Google Services includes products and services such as ads, Android, Chrome, hardware, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps and in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and fees received for subscription-based products such as YouTube Premium and YouTube TV. 

•Google Cloud includes Google’s infrastructure and platform services, collaboration tools, and other services for enterprise customers. Google Cloud generates revenues from fees received for Google Cloud Platform services, Google Workspace collaboration tools and other enterprise services.

•Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of health technology and internet services.

9

Unallocated corporate costs primarily include corporate initiatives, corporate shared costs, such as finance and legal, including certain fines and settlements, as well as costs associated with certain shared R&D activities. Additionally, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue are included in corporate costs.