Document

Exhibit 99.1

Booking Holdings Reports Financial Results for 4th Quarter and Full-Year 2021

NORWALK, CT – February 23, 2022. . . Booking Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: BKNG) today reported its 4th quarter and full-year 2021 financial results. Fourth quarter gross travel bookings for Booking Holdings Inc. (the "Company," "Booking Holdings," "we," "our," or "us"), which refers to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by its customers, net of cancellations, were $19.0 billion, an increase of 160% from the prior year quarter. Room nights booked in the 4th quarter increased 100% from the prior year quarter. The Company's results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 have been materially and negatively impacted due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic conditions and government restrictions.

Booking Holdings' total revenues for the 4th quarter of 2021 were $3.0 billion, an increase of 141% from the prior year quarter. The Company reported net income in the 4th quarter of 2021 of $618 million, compared with net loss of $165 million in the 4th quarter of 2020. The 4th quarters of 2021 and 2020 include net gains on equity securities of $20 million and $552 million, respectively. Net income per diluted common share in the 4th quarter of 2021 was $14.94, compared with net loss per diluted common share of $4.02 in the 4th quarter of 2020. 

Non-GAAP net income in the 4th quarter of 2021 was $654 million, compared with non-GAAP net loss in the 4th quarter of 2020 of $23 million. Non-GAAP net income per diluted common share in the 4th quarter of 2021 was $15.83, compared with non-GAAP net loss per diluted common share of $0.57 in the 4th quarter of 2020. Non-GAAP net income (loss) for both periods includes adjustments to exclude net gains or losses on equity securities with readily determinable fair values and foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the remeasurement of Euro-denominated debt that was not designated as a hedging instrument. Additionally, non-GAAP net income in the 4th quarter of 2021 includes an adjustment to exclude significant gains on equity securities without readily determinable fair values. Adjusted EBITDA for the 4th quarter of 2021 was $940 million, compared with an adjusted EBITDA loss of $38 million in the 4th quarter of 2020. The section below under the heading "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" provides definitions and information about the use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release and the attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles non-GAAP financial results with Booking Holdings' financial results under GAAP. 

For the full-year 2021, Booking Holdings had gross travel bookings of $76.6 billion, an increase of 116% from the prior year. Booking Holdings' total revenues in 2021 were $11.0 billion, a 61% increase from the prior year. Net income for the full-year 2021 was $1.2 billion, compared with $59 million in the prior year. Net income for the full-year 2021 includes net losses of $569 million on equity securities while the results for the full-year 2020 includes net gains of $1.8 billion on equity securities. Additionally, the Company recorded a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $242 million in 2021 and an impairment charge of $1.1 billion related to OpenTable and KAYAK goodwill in 2020. In June 2021, the Company announced its intention to voluntarily return assistance received through various government aid programs and recorded expenses of $137 million in 2021 to reflect the return of such assistance. During 2020, the Company recognized a benefit of $127 million related to the government aid programs. Net income per diluted common share for the full-year 2021 was $28.17, compared with $1.44 in the prior year.

Non-GAAP net income for the full-year 2021 was $1.9 billion, compared with $194 million in the prior year. Non-GAAP net income per diluted common share for the full-year 2021 was $45.77, compared with $4.71 in the prior year. Along with the non-GAAP adjustments discussed above, non-GAAP net income for the full-year 2021 includes an adjustment to exclude a loss on early extinguishment of debt and non-GAAP net income for the full-year 2020 includes an adjustment to exclude the impact of the goodwill impairment. Adjusted EBITDA for 2021 was $2.9 billion, a 230% increase from the prior year. 

1

"Despite the negative impact on travel from the Omicron wave at the end of the fourth quarter, we delivered revenue and adjusted EBITDA results that were better than our expectations for the quarter." said Glenn Fogel, Chief Executive Officer of Booking Holdings. "I am encouraged by the meaningful improvement in bookings we have seen so far in the first quarter of 2022. I believe we are well positioned as travel demand recovers, however, we do expect there will still be periods where COVID negatively impacts travel trends as we move through the year. As we look ahead to 2022, we remain focused on driving benefits to our traveler customers and to our supply partners alike while executing against our strategic priorities including building towards our Connected Trip vision."

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and include all normal and recurring adjustments that management of the Company considers necessary for a fair presentation of its financial position and operating results.

To supplement the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses the following non-GAAP financial measures: adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) per diluted common share and free cash flow (net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less capital expenditures). The presentation of non-GAAP financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.

The Company uses non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a basis to evaluate performance and set targets for employee compensation programs. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate the Company's ongoing operating performance because they facilitate comparison of the Company's results for the current period to those of prior periods and to those of its competitors (though other companies may calculate similar non-GAAP financial measures differently from those calculated by the Company). These non-GAAP financial measures, in particular adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income (loss) and free cash flow are not intended to represent funds available for Booking Holdings' discretionary use and are not intended to represent or to be used as a substitute for operating income (loss), net income (loss) or net cash provided by (used in) operating activities as measured under GAAP. The items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, but included in the calculation of their closest GAAP equivalent, are significant components of the Company's consolidated statements of operations and cash flows and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of overall financial performance.

Non-GAAP net income (loss) is net income (loss) with the following adjustments: 

•excludes the impact of impairment of goodwill,

•excludes gains and losses on equity securities with readily determinable fair values,

•excludes the impact of significant gains or losses on the sale of and impairment or credit losses on investments in available-for-sale debt securities and significant gains or losses on the sale of and valuation adjustments on investments in equity securities without readily determinable fair values,

•excludes foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the remeasurement of Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes,

•excludes losses on early extinguishment of debt and related reverse treasury lock agreements which were designated as cash flow hedges,

•excludes amortization expense of intangible assets, 

•excludes noncash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discount on our convertible debt, 

•excludes income taxes related to the maturity or redemption of convertible notes held for investment that were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to income tax expense (benefit), 

•excludes the income tax impact related to one-time adjustments as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act") enacted in December 2017,

•excludes the impact of net unrecognized tax benefits related to French and Italian tax matters, and 

•the income tax impact of the non-GAAP adjustments mentioned above and changes in tax estimates, as applicable.

2

In addition to the adjustments listed above regarding non-GAAP net income (loss), adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation expense, interest and dividend income, and to the extent not included in the adjustments listed above, interest expense and income tax expense (benefit). In the event the Company reports a GAAP net income but a non-GAAP net loss, dilutive shares that are included in the GAAP weighted-average number of diluted common shares outstanding are excluded from the non-GAAP weighted-average number of diluted common shares outstanding. In the event the Company reports a GAAP net loss but a non-GAAP net income, anti-dilutive shares that are excluded from the GAAP weighted-average number of diluted common shares outstanding are included in the non-GAAP weighted-average number of diluted common shares outstanding.

We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current year period results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current year period monthly average exchange rates.

The attached financial and statistical supplement includes reconciliations of our financial results under GAAP to non-GAAP financial information for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

Information About Forward-Looking Statements 

This press release contains forward-looking statements, which reflect the views of the Company's management regarding current expectations based on currently available information about future events. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; adverse changes in market conditions for travel services; the Company's ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; adverse changes in relationships with third parties on which the Company depends; the effects of competition; growth and expansion of the business; rapid technological and other market changes; impacts of impairments and changes in accounting estimates; success of the Company's marketing efforts; and other business and industry changes. Other risks and uncertainties relate to cyberattacks and information security; tax, legal, and regulatory risks; increased focus on environmental, social, and governance responsibilities; the Company's facilitation of payments; foreign currency exchange rates; success of the Company's investments and acquisition strategy; and financial risks relating to the Company's debt levels and stock price volatility. For a detailed discussion of these and other risk factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, refer to the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and any subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Unless required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

About Booking Holdings Inc.

Booking Holdings (NASDAQ: BKNG) is the world’s leading provider of online travel and related services, provided to consumers and local partners in more than 220 countries and territories through six primary consumer-facing brands: Booking.com, Priceline, Agoda, Rentalcars.com, KAYAK and OpenTable. The mission of Booking Holdings is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. For more information, visit BookingHoldings.com and follow us on Twitter @BookingHoldings.

###

For Press Information: Leslie Cafferty communications@bookingholdings.com

For Investor Relations: John Longstreet ir@bookingholdings.com

3

Booking Holdings Inc.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share and per share data)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4

Booking Holdings Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In millions, except share and per share data)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

Booking Holdings Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

Booking Holdings Inc.

UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION

(In millions, except share and per share data)(1)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts may not total due to rounding.

Notes:

(a)Amounts are excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Adjusted EBITDA.

(b)Impairment of goodwill related to the OpenTable and KAYAK reporting unit is recorded in Operating expenses and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA.

(c)Net losses (gains) on equity securities with readily determinable fair values and significant gains on equity securities without readily determinable fair values are recorded in Other income (expense), net and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA.

(d)Impairment of investment in DiDi Global Inc. equity securities is recorded in Other income (expense), net and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA.

(e)Foreign currency transaction (gains) losses on the remeasurement of Euro-denominated debt and accrued interest that are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes is recorded in Other income (expense), net and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA.

(f)Loss of $242 million on early extinguishment of debt and losses of $15 million on related reverse treasury lock agreements which were designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in Other income (expense), net and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA.

(g)Amortization of intangible assets is recorded in Depreciation and amortization and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss).

(h)Noncash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discount on convertible debt is recorded in Interest expense and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss). 

(i)Excludes income taxes related to the maturity or redemption of convertible notes held for investment that were reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Income tax expense.

(j)Benefit for U.S. federal tax credits resulting from the Tax Act and an adjustment to the one-time deemed repatriation liability resulting from the Tax Act is recorded in Income tax expense and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss).

(k)Net unrecognized tax benefits related to French and Italian tax matters is recorded in Income tax expense and excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss).

(l)Reflects the tax impact of Non-GAAP adjustments above and changes in tax estimates which are excluded from Net income (loss) to calculate Non-GAAP Net income (loss). 

(m)Cash used for additions to property and equipment is included in the calculation of Free cash flow.

For a more detailed discussion of the adjustments described above, please see the section in this press release under the heading "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" which provides definitions and information about the use of non-GAAP financial measures.

8

Booking Holdings Inc.

Statistical Data

In millions(1)

(Unaudited)

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts may not total due to rounding.

(2) Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, net of cancellations.