PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

Overview

Allegion plc ("Allegion," "we," "us" or "the Company") is a leading global provider of security products and solutions that keeps people and assets safe and secure in the places where they reside, work and thrive. We create peace of mind by pioneering safety and security with a vision of seamless access and a safer world. We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic security products across a range of market-leading brands. Our experts across the globe deliver high-quality security products, services and systems, and we use our deep expertise to serve as trusted partners to end-users who seek customized solutions to their security needs. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Access control security products and solutions are critical elements in every building and home. Many door openings are configured to maximize a room’s particular form and function while also meeting local and national building and safety code requirements and end-user security needs. Most buildings have multiple door openings, each serving its own purpose and requiring different specific access-control solutions. Each door must fit exactly within its frame, be prepared precisely for its hinges, synchronize with its specific lockset and corresponding latch and align with a specific key to secure the door. Moreover, with the increasing adoption of the Internet of Things ("IoT"), security products are increasingly linked electronically, integrated into software and popular consumer technology platforms and controlled with mobile applications, creating additional functionality and complexity.

We believe our ability to deliver a wide range of solutions that can be custom-configured to meet end-users’ security needs is a key driver of our success. We accomplish this with: 

•Our extensive and versatile product portfolio, combined with our deep expertise, which enables us to deliver the right products and solutions to meet diverse security and functional specifications and to successfully and securely integrate into leading technology and systems; 

•Our consultative approach and expertise, which enables us to develop the most efficient and appropriate building security and access-control specifications to fulfill the unique needs of our end-users and their partners, including architects, contractors, home-builders and engineers;

•Our access to and management of key channels in the market, which is critical to delivering our products in an efficient and consistent manner; and 

•Our enterprise excellence capabilities, including our global manufacturing operations and agile supply chain, which facilitate our ability to deliver specific product and system configurations to end-users and consumers worldwide, quickly and efficiently. 

We believe that the security products industry is growing and will continue to benefit from several global macroeconomic and long-term demographic trends, including:

•The convergence of mechanical and electronic security products;

•Heightened awareness of security and privacy requirements;

•Increased global urbanization; and

•The shift to a digital, interconnected environment. 

We believe the security products industry will also benefit from continued growth in institutional, commercial and residential end-markets. As end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities and homes, we also expect growth in the global electronic product categories we serve to outperform growth in mechanical products. 

We operate in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, India and Africa ("EMEIA"); and Asia Pacific. We sell our products and solutions under the following brands: 

 4
Allegion Brands

(listed for each region)

 5
We sell a wide range of security and access control solutions for end-users in commercial, institutional and residential facilities worldwide, including the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. Our leading brands include CISA®, Interflex®, LCN®, Schlage®, SimonsVoss® and Von Duprin®. We believe LCN, Schlage and Von Duprin hold the No. 1 position in their primary product categories in North America while CISA, Interflex and SimonsVoss hold the No.1 or No. 2 position in their primary product categories in certain European markets. 

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we generated Net revenues of $2,854.0 million and Operating income of $565.1 million. 

 6
History and Developments

We were incorporated in Ireland on May 9, 2013, to hold the commercial and residential security businesses of Ingersoll Rand plc ("Ingersoll Rand"). On December 1, 2013, we became a stand-alone public company after Ingersoll Rand completed the separation of these businesses from the rest of Ingersoll Rand via the transfer of these businesses from Ingersoll Rand to us and the issuance by us of ordinary shares directly to Ingersoll Rand’s shareholders (the "Spin-off"). Our security businesses have long and distinguished operating histories. Several of our brands were established nearly 100 years ago, and many originally created their categories: 

•Von Duprin, established in 1908, was awarded the first exit device patent;

•Schlage, established in 1920, was awarded the first patents granted for the cylindrical lock and the push button lock; 

•LCN, established in 1926, created the first door closer; 

•CISA, established in 1926, devised the first electronically controlled lock; and

•SimonsVoss, established in 1995, created the first keyless digital transponder.

We have built upon these founding legacies since our entry into the security products market through the acquisition of Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN in 1974. Today, we continue to develop and introduce innovative and market-leading products. 

In addition, in 2018 we announced the formation of Allegion Ventures, a corporate venture fund that invests in and helps accelerate the growth of companies that have innovative technologies and products. Since its formation, Allegion Ventures has invested nearly $10 million in several early-stage companies that share our pioneering vision and seek to find smart and innovative solutions that help keep people and assets safe and secure in the places where they reside, work and thrive.

Recent examples of successful product launches are illustrated in the table below:

 7
Product Brands Year Innovation

Residential Locks, Cylinders and Levers Schlage, Bricard, Milre 2017/2018/ 2019 

Next-generation Schlage smart locks including the first WiFi enabled deadbolt to work with Key by Amazon and Ring devices with built-in connectivity (Schlage Encode); 4-in-1 lock with fingerprint sensors, smart card, code access or a physical key (SEL); Z-wave smart deadbolt and Zigbee-certified model compatible with Amazon Key and Ring devices (Schlage Connect). Expanded handlesets for Schlage’s new universal functionality solution that allows homeowners to change from a doorknob to a lever and convert a non-locking door to lockable in minutes (Schlage Custom) and expanded ranges of cylinders and new aluminum trims for DIY customers (Bricard). 

Residential e-locks in Asia Pacific with improved biometric sensors, new designs and push-pull electronic locks with Bluetooth modules (Q6, X7, Milre). Asia-Pacific Schlage series with new lever designs and finishes (Medio and Form); new mechanism for faster door hardware installation (QuickFix); and door and window hardware for aluminum joinery (Schlage Kanso).

Commercial Locks, Cylinders, Levers and Electronic Access Platforms Schlage, CISA, SimonsVoss, Bricard 2017/2018/ 2019 

Enhancements to our comprehensive portfolio of globally available mechanical, wired electrified and wireless electronic solutions provide a common aesthetic and consistent user experience throughout a building (Schlage). Firmware releases for U.S. channel-partner readers to give new functionality and USB communication mode for readers (Schlage). Mobile credentials, new Bluetooth Low Energy and RFID technology and integrations between electronic locks and exit devices (CISA).

New rim and mortice locks for Southeast Asia (S-series) and expanded cylinders for the European locksmith channel. Multipoint mortise locks and a new offering for two-door leaves (Bricard); multipoint self-locking system with remote-open capability and the highest European-standard security grade (CISA). New enhancements to the electronic Smart Handle (SimonsVoss).

Exit Devices and Closers Von Duprin, Falcon, CISA 2018/2019 

New award-winning and cost-effective retrofit exit device that allows for remote undogging and monitoring with partner software (Von Duprin); new fire-rated retrofit series (Falcon); and quiet exit solutions (Von Duprin). 

New range of asymmetric rack-and-pinion door closers and an entry-level high-efficiency option (CISA).

Doors and Door Closers TGP, AD Systems 2019 

First to the market surface mounted, top-hung single-leaf door that offers clean, modern aesthetic of sliding flush wood doors that achieve a 45-minute UL 10B fire rating (FireSlide).

New fire-rated and impact safety-rated glass doors with a heat resistive perimeter frame, which features nearly colorless transitions between adjoining pieces of low-iron glass, eliminating the need for colored internal glass unit spacers or vertical frame mullions (Fireframes ClearView).

Bike Lighting and Portable Locking Solutions AXA, Kryptonite, Trelock 2017/2018/2019 

Broad range of innovation in bike safety from each of our Global Portable Security brands (AXA, Kryptonite and Trelock), ranging from compact dynamo and e-bike lights to USB, battery powered and rechargeable lights.

Expanded lines of folding locks, integrated chains, ring locks and applications for bikes and motorcycles (AXA, Kryptonite, Trelock); new ergonomic cable and chain locks and expanded track-and-trace services (AXA).

Software, Mobile and Web Applications Allegion (Overtur, ENGAGE), Schlage, Briton, Interflex, ISONAS 2018/2019 

Cloud-based suite of tools for project teams to collaborate on specifications and the security design of doors and openings, which provides a centralized place to capture and maintain door hardware requirements and decisions with easy options to push information back to the design tools (Overtur).

Multiple enhancements to the user experience include biometric login for the mobile app, simplified account and site set-up and gateway site survey (ENGAGE) and mobile apps (Briton and Schlage) let users lock, unlock, issue mobile keys, check status and more.

New modules for visitor management, encouraging self-service and Microsoft Outlook functionality and managed service featuring a cloud-based solution of time recording (Interflex); updated cloud-hosted access control platform with real time events, alerting, and user-initiated door control (ISONAS).

 8
Industry and Competition 

The global markets we serve encompass institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets throughout North America, EMEIA and Asia Pacific. In recent years, as end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities and single and multi-family homes, including IoT, growth in electronic security products and solutions continues to outperform growth in mechanical security products and solutions. We expect the security products industry will continue to benefit from favorable long-term demographic trends such as continued urbanization of the global population, increased concerns about safety and security and technology-driven innovation. 

The security products markets are highly competitive and fragmented throughout the world, with a number of large multi-national companies and thousands of smaller regional and local companies. This high fragmentation primarily reflects local regulatory requirements and highly variable end-user needs. We believe our principal global competitors are Assa Abloy AB and dormakaba Group. We also face competition in various markets and product categories throughout the world, including from Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. in the North American residential market. As we move into more technologically-advanced product categories, we may also compete against new, more specialized competitors. 

Our success depends on a variety of factors, including brand and reputation, product breadth, innovation, integration with popular technology platforms, quality and delivery capabilities, price and service capabilities. As many of our businesses sell through wholesale distribution, our success also depends on building and partnering with a strong channel network. Although price often serves as an important customer decision point, we also compete based on the breadth and quality of our products and solutions, our ability to custom-configure solutions to meet individual end-user requirements and our global supply chain. 

Products and Services

We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic security products across a range of market-leading brands:

•Locks, locksets, portable locks and key systems and services: A broad array of cylindrical and mortise door locksets, security levers and master key systems that are used to protect and control access and a range of portable security products, including bicycle, small vehicle and travel locks. We also offer locksmith services in select locations;

•Door closers, controls and exit devices: An extensive portfolio of life-safety products generally installed on fire doors and facility entrances and exits. Door controls include both mechanical door closers and automatic door operators. Exit devices, also known as panic hardware, provide rapid egress to allow building occupants to exit safely in an emergency; 

•Electronic security products and access control systems: A broad range of electrified locks, access control systems, key card and reader systems and accessories, including IoT, Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), Power over Ethernet and cloud-based solutions;

•Time, attendance and workforce productivity systems: Products and services designed to help business customers manage and monitor workforce access control parameters, attendance and employee scheduling. We offer ongoing aftermarket services in addition to design and installation offerings;

•Doors and door systems: A portfolio of hollow metal, glass, wood and specialty doors and door systems; and 

•Other accessories: A variety of additional security and product components, including hinges, door pulls, door stops, bike lights, louvers, weather stripping, thresholds and other accessories, as well as certain bathroom fittings and accessibility aids.

Customers 

We sell most of our products and solutions through distribution and retail channels, including specialty distribution, e-commerce and wholesalers. We have built a network of channel partners that help our customers choose the right solution to meet their security needs and help commercial and institutional end-users fulfill and install orders. We also sell through a variety of retail channels, including large do-it-yourself home improvement centers, multiple on-line and e-commerce platforms, as well as small, specialty showroom outlets. We work with our retail partners on developing marketing and merchandising strategies to maximize their sales per square foot of shelf space. Through our Interflex and API Locksmiths businesses and Global Portable Security brands, we also provide products and solutions directly to end-users.

Our 10 largest customers represented approximately 23% of our total Net revenues in 2019. No single customer represented 10% or more of our total Net revenues in 2019. 

 9
Sales and Marketing

In markets where we sell through commercial and institutional distribution channels, we employ sales professionals around the world who work with a combination of end-users, security professionals, architects, contractors, engineers and distribution partners to develop specific custom-configured solutions for our end-users’ needs. Our field sales professionals are assisted by specification writers who work with architects, engineers and consultants to help design door openings and security systems to meet end-users’ functional, aesthetic and regulatory requirements. Both groups are supported by dedicated customer care and technical sales-support specialists worldwide. We also support our sales efforts with a variety of marketing efforts, including trade-specific advertising, cooperative distributor merchandising, digital marketing and marketing at a variety of industry trade shows.

In markets in which we sell through retail and home-builder distribution channels, we have teams of sales, merchandising and marketing professionals who help drive brand and product awareness through our channel partners and to consumers. We utilize a variety of advertising and marketing strategies, including traditional consumer media, retail merchandising, digital marketing, retail promotions and builder and consumer trade shows, to support these teams. 

We also work actively with several industry bodies around the world to help promote effective and consistent safety and security standards. For example, we are members of Builders Hardware Manufacturers Association (BHMA), Construction Specification Institute, FiRa Consortium, Internet of Things Consortium (IoTC), Physical Security Interoperability Alliance (PSIA), Security Industry Association, Security Technology Alliance, ASSOFERMA (Italy), BHE (Germany) and UNIQ (France). 

Production and Distribution

We manufacture our products in our geographic markets around the world. We operate 32 production and assembly facilities, including 15 in Americas, 11 in EMEIA and 6 in Asia Pacific. We own 16 of these facilities and lease the others. Our strategy is to produce in the region of use, wherever appropriate, to allow us to be closer to the end-user and increase efficiency and timely product delivery. Much of our U.S. based residential portfolio is manufactured in the Baja region of Mexico under the Maquiladora, Manufacturing and Export Services Industry ("IMMEX") program (formerly known as the maquiladora program). In managing our network of production facilities, we focus on eliminating excess capacity, reducing cycle time through productivity and harmonizing production practices and safety procedures.

We distribute our products through a broad network of channel partners. In addition, third-party manufacturing and logistics providers perform certain manufacturing, storage and distribution services for us to support certain parts of our manufacturing and distribution network. 

Raw Materials

We support our region-of-use production strategy with corresponding region-of-use supplier partners, where available. Our global and regional commodity teams work with production leadership, product management and materials management teams to ensure adequate materials are available for production. 

We purchase a wide range of raw materials, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, to support our production facilities. Where appropriate, we may enter into fixed-cost contracts to lower overall costs. 

Intellectual Property

Intellectual property, inclusive of certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, is important to our business. We create, protect and enforce our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to try to ensure the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe such distinctive marks are an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our products from others. We consider our CISA, Interflex, LCN, Schlage, SimonsVoss, Von Duprin and other associated trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in a number of countries. Although certain proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we do not believe we are materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses.

 10
Facilities

We operate through a broad network of sales offices, engineering centers, 32 production and assembly facilities and several distribution centers throughout the world. Our active properties represent approximately 6.6 million square feet, of which approximately 39% is leased. The following table shows the location of our principal worldwide production and assembly facilities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and Development 

We are committed to investing in our research and development capabilities with a focus on technology innovations that will deliver growth through the introduction of new products and solutions. In addition, we invest in initiatives that continuously drive improvements in product cost, quality, safety and sustainability. 

Our research and development team is managed as a global, collaborative group to identify and develop new technologies and worldwide product platforms. We organize our resources regionally to leverage expertise in local standards and configurations for the benefit of our customers. Further, we operate a global engineering design and technology center in Bangalore, India, to augment and support the regional engineering teams. 

Seasonality 

Our business experiences seasonality that varies by product line. Because more construction and do-it-yourself projects occur during the second and third calendar quarters of each year in the Northern Hemisphere, our security product sales related to those projects are typically higher in those quarters than in the first and fourth calendar quarters. However, certain other businesses typically experience higher sales in the fourth calendar quarter due to project timing. Net revenues by quarter for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Employees

We believe in fundamental standards that support our commitment to our employees, including a commitment to safe and healthy workspaces, respect for diversity and competitive wages and benefits. We are also committed to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive environment. As an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer, we are fully committed to our equal employment opportunity policy and will not discriminate based on race, sex, color, national origin, creed, religion, pregnancy, age, disability, military status, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, marital status or 

 11
any legally protected status. We are dedicated to fulfilling this commitment as it relates to decisions regarding all employment actions at all levels of employment. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 11,000 employees.

Environmental Matters

We have a dedicated environmental program designed to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process, as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former production facilities. We also regularly evaluate our remediation methods that are in addition to, or in replacement of, those we currently utilize based upon enhanced technology and regulatory changes.

We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") and similar state authorities. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.

In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future. For a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Available Information

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at www.sec.gov.

In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as future quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website (https://www.allegion.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this report.

 12
Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS