Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Our earnings, cash flows, and financial position are exposed to market risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. It is our policy to minimize our cash flow exposure to adverse changes in currency exchange rates and to manage the financial risks inherent in funding with debt capital.

We address these financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We have established counterparty credit guidelines and generally enter into transactions with financial institutions of investment grade or better, thereby minimizing the risk of credit loss. All instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. For details on the types and use of these derivative instruments and related major accounting policies, refer to Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and Note 13, Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we mitigate adverse energy price impacts through our cost pass-through contracts with customers and price increases.

Our derivative and other financial instruments consist of long-term debt, including the current portion and amounts owed to related parties; interest rate swaps; cross currency interest rate swaps; and foreign exchange-forward contracts. The net market value of these financial instruments combined is referred to below as the "net financial instrument position" and is disclosed in Note 14, Fair Value Measurements, to the consolidated financial statements. Our net financial instrument position increased from a liability of $3,239.1 at 30 September 2019 to a liability of $8,220.7 at 30 September 2020 due to the issuance of the $3.8 billion U.S. Dollar-denominated notes and €1.0 billion Eurobonds in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. See Note 15, Debt, for additional information.

The analysis below presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices. Market values are the present values of projected future cash flows based on the market rates and prices chosen. The market values for interest rate risk and foreign currency risk are calculated by us using a third-party software model that utilizes standard pricing models to determine the present value of the instruments based on market conditions as of the valuation date, such as interest rates, spot and forward exchange rates, and implied volatilities.

Interest Rate Risk

Our debt portfolio as of 30 September 2020, including the effect of currency and interest rate swap agreements, was composed of 89% fixed-rate debt and 11% variable-rate debt. Our debt portfolio as of 30 September 2019, including the effect of currency and interest rate swap agreements, was composed of 74% fixed-rate debt and 26% variable-rate debt. The increase in fixed rate debt is the result of the U.S. Dollar- and Euro-denominated notes issued during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020.

The sensitivity analysis related to the interest rate risk on the fixed portion of our debt portfolio assumes an instantaneous 100 bp parallel move in interest rates from the level at 30 September 2020, with all other variables held constant. A 100 bp increase in market interest rates would result in a decrease of $711 and $75 in the net liability position of financial instruments at 30 September 2020 and 2019, respectively. A 100 bp decrease in market interest rates would result in an increase of $846 and $80 in the net liability position of financial instruments at 30 

48
September 2020 and 2019, respectively. The longer maturities and increased principal associated with the U.S. Dollar- and Euro-denominated notes issued during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 created a higher sensitivity to market interest rates.

Based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, a 100 bp increase in interest rates would result in an additional $8 of interest incurred per year at 30 September 2020 and 2019. A 100 bp decline in interest rates would lower interest incurred by $8 per year at 30 September 2020 and 2019.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The sensitivity analysis related to foreign currency exchange rates assumes an instantaneous 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates from their levels at 30 September 2020 and 2019, with all other variables held constant. A 10% strengthening or weakening of the functional currency of an entity versus all other currencies would result in a decrease or increase, respectively, of $360 and $326 in the net liability position of financial instruments at 30 September 2020 and 2019, respectively.

The primary currency pairs for which we have exchange rate exposure are the Euro and U.S. Dollar and Chinese Renminbi and U.S. Dollar. Foreign currency debt, cross currency interest rate swaps, and foreign exchange-forward contracts are used in countries where we do business, thereby reducing our net asset exposure. Foreign exchange-forward contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps are also used to hedge our firm and highly anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Thus, there is either an asset or liability or cash flow exposure related to all of the financial instruments in the above sensitivity analysis for which the impact of a movement in exchange rates would be in the opposite direction and materially equal to the impact on the instruments in the analysis.

The majority of our sales are denominated in foreign currencies as they are derived outside the United States. Therefore, financial results will be affected by changes in foreign currency rates. The Chinese Renminbi and the Euro represent the largest exposures in terms of our foreign earnings. We estimate that a 10% reduction in either the Chinese Renminbi or the Euro versus the U.S. Dollar would lower our annual operating income by approximately $40 and $25, respectively.

COVID-19 Risks and Uncertainties 

Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors within this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of current and potential risks of COVID-19 on our business and financial performance. 

49
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.