Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Business Overview

Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices. We also operate esports leagues and offer digital advertising within our content. The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Reportable Segments

Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments: Activision, Blizzard, and King.

(i) Activision

Activision is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products primarily based on our internally developed intellectual properties. Activision also includes the activities of the Call of Duty League, a global professional esports league with city-based teams for Call of Duty.

(ii) Blizzard

Blizzard is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content. Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch League, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams.

(iii) King

King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly for the mobile platform, including for Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS. King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook. King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.

Other

We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including our Distribution business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.

Destiny Franchise

In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie to publish games in the Destiny franchise. Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise. As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision. As a result of the agreement to terminate the relationship, the Company recognized net bookings, a key operating metric, of $20 million, GAAP revenues of $164 million, and GAAP operating income of $91 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.

31
Business Results and Highlights

Financial Results

2019 financial highlights included:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Since certain of our games are hosted online or include significant online functionality that represents a separate performance obligation, we defer the transaction price allocable to the online functionality from the sale of these games and recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year. Net revenues and operating income for the year ended December 31, 2019, include net effects of $101 million and $52 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues.

Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2019, 18% of total net revenues recognized were from revenue sources that were recognized at a “point-in-time,” while “over-time and other” revenues were 82% of total net revenues. Revenue recognized at a “point-in-time” is primarily comprised of the portion of revenue from software products that is recognized when the customer takes control of the product (i.e., upon delivery of the software product) and revenues from our Distribution business. “Over-time and other revenue” is primarily comprised of revenue associated with the online functionality of our games, in-game purchases, and subscriptions.

Content Release and Event Highlights

Games and downloadable content that were released during 2019, include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Activision’s Call of Duty: Mobile;

•Activision’s Call of Duty: Modern Warfare;

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32
The Overwatch League, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, completed its second season in 2019 and began its third season in February 2020. During 2019, we also sold the first 12 teams for the Call of Duty League, which began its first season in January 2020.

International Sales

International sales are a fundamental part of our business. An important element of our international strategy is to develop content that is specifically directed toward local cultures and customs. Net revenues from international sales accounted for approximately 54%, 54%, and 55% of our total consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The majority of our net revenues from foreign countries are generated by consumers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Our international business is subject to risks typical of an international business, including, but not limited to, foreign currency exchange rate volatility and changes in local economies. Accordingly, our future results could be materially and adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in local economies.

Operating Metrics

The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business. The key drivers of changes in our operating metrics are presented in the order of significance. 

Net bookings and In-game net bookings

We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business because it enables an analysis of performance based on the timing of actual transactions with our customers and provides more timely indication of trends in our operating results. Net bookings is the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period, and includes license fees, merchandise, and publisher incentives, among others. Net bookings is equal to net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals. In-game net bookings primarily includes the net amount of downloadable content and microtransactions sold during the period, and is equal to in-game net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.

Net bookings and in-game net bookings were as follows (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net bookings

The decrease in net bookings for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

33
•a $55 million decrease in King net bookings primarily driven by lower net bookings from player purchases across various franchise titles, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise, partially offset by an increase in advertising net bookings.

In-game net bookings

The decrease in in-game net bookings for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a $131 million decrease in King in-game net bookings primarily due to lower in-game net bookings across various franchise titles, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise.

Monthly Active Users

We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base. MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period. An individual who accesses two of our games would be counted as two users. In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users. For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user. In certain instances, we rely on third parties to publish our games. In these instances, MAU data is based on information provided to us by those third parties, or, if final data is not available, reasonable estimates of MAUs for these third-party published games.

The number of MAUs for a given period can be significantly impacted by the timing of new content releases, since new releases may cause a temporary surge in MAUs. Accordingly, although we believe that overall trending in the number of MAUs can be a meaningful performance metric, period-to-period fluctuations may not be indicative of longer-term trends. The following table details our average MAUs on a sequential quarterly basis for each of our reportable segments (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Average MAUs increased by 93 million, or 29%, for the three months ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to an increase in average MAUs for Activision driven by the Call of Duty franchise as a result of the October 2019 launches of Call of Duty: Mobile and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare.

34
Average MAUs increased by 53 million, or 15%, for the three months ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018. The year-over-year increase in average MAUs is due to higher average MAUs for Activision, primarily driven by the launch Call of Duty: Mobile, partially offset by the absence of Destiny MAUs in our operating metric. The overall increase is partially offset by:

•decreases across King’s various franchises, primarily from less engaged users leaving the network; and

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Management’s Overview of Business Trends

Interactive Entertainment Growth, Including Mobile Gaming

Our business participates in the global interactive entertainment industry. Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 13% annually from 2016 to 2019. The industry continues to benefit from additional players entering the market as interactive entertainment becomes more commonplace across age groups and as more developing regions gain access to this form of entertainment.

Further, wide adoption of smartphones globally and the free-to-play business model on those platforms has increased the total addressable audience for gaming significantly by introducing gaming to new age groups and new regions and allowing gaming to occur more widely outside the home. Mobile gaming is estimated to be larger than console and PC gaming, and continues to grow at a significant rate. King is a leading developer of mobile and free-to-play games, and our other business units have mobile efforts underway that present the opportunity for us to expand the reach of, and drive additional player investment in our franchises. The October 2019 launch of Call of Duty: Mobile is an example of these efforts.

Opportunities to Expand Franchises Outside of Games

Our fans spend significant time engaging in our franchises and investing through purchases of our game content, including full games, downloadable content and microtransactions. Given the passion our players have for our franchises, we believe there are emerging opportunities to drive additional engagement and investment in our franchises outside of games. Our efforts to build these adjacent opportunities are still relatively nascent, but we view them as potentially significant sources of future revenues.

For example, as part of our efforts to take advantage of esports opportunities, we have sold rights for 20 teams that are participating in the Overwatch League, which recently began its third season in February 2020, and, during 2019, we sold rights for the first 12 teams for the Call of Duty League, which began its first season in January 2020.

Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Franchises

The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive entertainment industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 33% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2019. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues historically has been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises, and these video games have also been responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, in 2019, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, and World of Warcraft franchises, collectively, accounted for 67% of our consolidated net revenues—and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income.

The top titles in the industry are also becoming more consistent as players and revenues concentrate more heavily in established franchises. Of the top 10 console franchises in the U.S. in 2019, all 10 are from established franchises. Similarly, according to U.S rankings for the Apple App Store and Google Play Store per App Annie Intelligence as of December 2019, the top 10 mobile games have held such ranking for an average of 25 months.

35
In addition to investing in, and developing sequels and content for, our top franchises, with the aim of releasing content more frequently, we are continually exploring additional ways to expand those franchises. Further, while there is no guarantee of success, we invest in new properties in an effort to develop future top franchises. For example, in 2014, we released Hearthstone, and in 2016, we released Overwatch. Additionally, to diversify our portfolio of key franchises and increase our presence on the mobile platform, in 2016, we acquired King. We also have been focusing on expanding our franchises to the mobile platform, as demonstrated by the recently released Call of Duty: Mobile, as well as our plans for Diablo ImmortalTM , which is currently in development.

Overall, we do expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our, and the industry’s, revenues and profits in the near future. Accordingly, our ability to maintain our top franchises and our ability to successfully compete against our competitors’ top franchises can significantly impact our performance.

Recurring Revenue Business Models and Seasonality

Increased consumer online connectivity has allowed us to offer players new investment opportunities and to shift our business further towards a more consistently recurring and year-round model. Offering downloadable content and microtransactions, in addition to full games, allows our players to access and invest in new content throughout the year. This incremental content not only provides additional high-margin revenues, it can also increase player engagement. Also, mobile games, and free-to-play games more broadly, are generally less seasonal than premium games developed primarily for the console or PC platforms.

While our business is shifting toward a year-round engagement model, the interactive entertainment industry remains somewhat seasonal. We have historically experienced our highest sales volume, particularly for Activision, in the calendar year-end holiday buying season.

Outlook

In the second half of 2020, we plan to release the next premium title in our Call of Duty franchise and the next expansion for World of Warcraft, World of Warcraft: Shadowlands. In addition, throughout the year we expect to deliver ongoing content for our various franchises, including continued in-game content for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare and Call of Duty: Mobile, expansion packs and content updates for Hearthstone, in-game events for Overwatch, and continued releases of content, features, and services across King’s portfolio with an ongoing focus on the Candy Crush franchise. We will also continue to invest in opportunities that we think have the potential to drive our growth over the long-term, including continuing to build on our advertising and esports initiatives. We expect lower revenues and earnings per share in 2020 as compared to 2019, primarily due to the impact of deferrals as a result of the timing of releases for our games and content updates in 2020.

Additionally, during 2019, we implemented our previously announced restructuring plan, which was aimed at refocusing our resources on our largest opportunities and removing unnecessary levels of complexity and duplication from certain parts of the business. The restructuring actions remain in progress and will continue into 2020 as we execute against our plan. During implementation, we expanded the scope of certain actions within our plan aimed at integrating our global and regional sales and “go-to-market” functions, along with certain of our administrative-related functions. We expect to incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $50 million in 2020 as we complete the execution of the restructuring plan. Refer to Note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

36
Consolidated Statements of Operations Data

The following table sets forth consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (amounts in millions) and as a percentage of total net revenues, except for cost of revenues, which are presented as a percentage of associated revenues:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we identified an amount which should have been recorded in the three months and year ended December 31, 2018 to reduce income tax expense by $35 million. Our statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018, as presented above, has been revised to reflect the correction. See further discussion in Note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(2) Represents the loss on extinguishment of debt we recognized in connection with our debt financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2018. The loss on extinguishment is comprised of a $25 million premium payment and a $15 million write-off of unamortized discount and deferred financing costs.

37
Consolidated Net Revenues

The key drivers of changes in our consolidated net revenues, operating segment results, consolidated results, and sources of liquidity are presented in the order of significance. 

The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues, increase (decrease) in associated deferred net revenues recognized, and in-game net revenues (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)In-game net revenues primarily includes the net amount of revenue recognized for downloadable content and microtransactions during the period.

Consolidated net revenues

The decrease in consolidated net revenues for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily driven by a decrease in revenues of $1.1 billion due to:

•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018);

•lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone;

•lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles; and

•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch.

The decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenues of $236 million due to:

•revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019; and

•revenues recognized from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled, which was released in June 2019.

The remaining net decrease of $131 million was driven by various other franchises and titles. 

Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized

The decrease in net deferred revenues recognized for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $312 million in net deferred revenues recognized from Activision, primarily due to lower net deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise.

The decrease from Activision was partially offset by an increase of $158 million in net deferred revenues recognized from Blizzard, primarily due to higher net deferred revenues recognized for World of Warcraft, driven by World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth, which was released in August 2018, with no comparable release in 2017.

38
In-game net revenues

The decrease in in-game net revenues for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily driven by a decrease in in-game net revenues of $845 million due to:

•lower in-game revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise;

•lower in-game revenues recognized from Hearthstone;

•lower in-game revenues across various King franchise titles, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise;

•lower in-game revenues recognized from World of Warcraft; and

•lower in-game revenues recognized from Overwatch.

The remaining net decrease of $28 million was driven by various other franchises and titles. 

Foreign Exchange Impact

Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $150 million and a positive impact of $102 million on Activision Blizzard’s consolidated net revenues in 2019 and 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.

39
Operating Segment Results

Currently, we have three reportable segments—Activision, Blizzard, and King. Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”). The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of: the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games; share-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting; fees and other expenses (including legal fees, expenses, and accruals) related to acquisitions, associated integration activities, and financings; certain restructuring and related costs; and certain other non-cash charges. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto.

Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organizational structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments.

Information on the reportable segment net revenues and segment operating income are presented below (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.

40
Reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues and consolidated income before income tax expense are presented in the table below (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Distribution business. Also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses.

(2)Since certain of our games are hosted online or include significant online functionality that represents a separate performance obligation, we defer the transaction price allocable to the online functionality from the sale of these games and then recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year. The related cost of revenues is deferred and recognized as an expense as the related revenues are recognized. This table reflects the net effect from the deferrals of revenues and recognition of deferred revenues, along with the related cost of revenues, on certain of our online enabled products.

(3)Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.

(4)Reflects restructuring initiatives, which include severance and other restructuring-related costs.

(5)Reflects the impact of other unusual or unique tax‑related items and activities.

Segment Net Revenues

Activision

The decrease in Activision’s net revenues for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•lower revenues from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018); and

•lower revenues from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles.

41
The decrease was partially offset by:

•revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019;

•revenues from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled, which was released in June 2019; and 

•revenues from Call of Duty: Mobile, which was released in October 2019.

Blizzard

The decrease in Blizzard’s net revenues for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•lower revenues from Hearthstone; and

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

King

The decrease in King’s net revenues for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to lower in-game revenues from player purchases across various franchise titles, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise, partially offset by an increase in advertising revenues.

Segment Income from Operations

Activision

The decrease in Activision’s operating income for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•lower revenues, as discussed above; and

•marketing costs associated with the release of Call of Duty: Mobile in October 2019.

The decrease was partially offset by:

•lower cost of revenues as a result of the decrease in revenues discussed above, primarily associated with Destiny; and

•lower operating expenses, such as sales and marketing and product developments costs, for Destiny. 

Blizzard

The decrease in Blizzard’s operating income for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues, as discussed above. 

The decrease is partially offset by:

•lower spending on sales and marketing, primarily driven by lower marketing for esports initiatives;

•higher capitalization of development costs driven by the timing of Blizzard’s game development cycles;

•lower personnel costs;

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42
•lower service provider fees, such as digital storefront fees (e.g., fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms), payment processor fees, and server bandwidth fees.

King

King’s operating income for 2019 was slightly less than in 2018, primarily due to lower revenues, as discussed above. The impact of the lower revenues was largely offset by:

•lower personnel costs; and

•lower service provider fees, such as digital storefront fees (e.g., fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms), payment processor fees, and server bandwidth fees.

Foreign Exchange Impact

Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $126 million and a positive impact of $48 million on reportable segment net revenues for 2019 and 2018, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and British pound.

Consolidated Results

Net Revenues by Distribution Channel

The following table details our consolidated net revenues by distribution channel (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net revenues from “Digital online channels” include revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products, as well as licensing royalties.

(2)Net revenues from “Other” primarily includes revenues from our Distribution business and the Overwatch League.

Digital Online Channel Net Revenues

The decrease in net revenues from digital online channels for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018); and

•lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone.

43
Retail Channel Net Revenues

The decrease in net revenues from retail channels for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease was partially offset by:

•revenues recognized from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled, which was released in June 2019; 

•revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019; and 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Revenues by Geographic Region

The following table details our consolidated net revenues by geographic region (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) “EMEA” consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions.

Americas

The decrease in net revenues in the Americas region for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018).

EMEA

The decrease in net revenues in the EMEA region for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44
Asia Pacific 

The decrease in net revenues in the Asia Pacific region for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise.

Net Revenues by Platform

The following tables detail our net revenues by platform (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net revenues from “Mobile and ancillary” include revenues from mobile devices, as well as non-platform-specific game-related revenues, such as standalone sales of toys and accessories.

(2)Net revenues from “Other” primarily includes revenues from our Distribution business and the Overwatch League.

Console

The decrease in net revenues from console for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018); and

•lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles.

The decrease was partially offset by revenues recognized from Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled, which was released in June 2019.

PC

The decrease in net revenues from PC for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and 

•lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone.

Mobile and Ancillary

The increase in net revenues from mobile and ancillary for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Mobile, which was released in October 2019.

45
Costs and Expenses

Cost of Revenues

The following tables detail the components of cost of revenues in dollars (amounts in millions) and as a percentage of associated net revenues:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of Revenues—Product Sales:

The decrease in product costs for 2019, as compared to 2018, was due to the decrease in product sales, primarily associated with the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018). 

The decrease in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $133 million in software amortization and royalties from Activision, primarily due to the Destiny franchise. The decrease was partially offset by:

•higher software amortization and royalties for Call of Duty: Black Ops 4, which was released in October 2018, as compared to Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017; 

•software amortization and royalties from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019; and 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of Revenues—Subscription, Licensing, and Other Revenues:

The decrease in game operations and distribution costs for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $50 million in service provider fees such as digital storefront fees (e.g., fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms), payment processor fees, and server bandwidth fees.

The decrease in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to subscription, licensing, and other revenues for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•a decrease of $122 million in amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisition of King;

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46
Product Development (amounts in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in product development costs for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•lower product development costs from the Destiny franchise; and 

•a $25 million increase in capitalization of development costs, primarily driven by the timing of Blizzard’s game development cycles.

Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a decrease of $44 million in amortization of the customer base intangible asset acquired as part of our acquisition of King, as the asset was fully amortized during the first quarter of 2018.

General and Administrative (amounts in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in general and administrative expenses for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to a $72 million decrease in personnel costs.

Restructuring and related costs (amounts in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2019, we implemented our previously announced restructuring plan, which was aimed at refocusing our resources on our largest opportunities and to remove unnecessary levels of complexity and duplication from certain parts of our business. Since the roll out of the plan, we have been, and will continue focusing on these goals. The restructuring and related costs incurred during 2019, relate primarily to severance costs, write-downs of lease facility assets, and the write-downs of other assets that will no longer be used. Refer to Note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

47
Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, for 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to:

•a $49 million decrease in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our debt obligations, reflecting a decrease in our total debt outstanding as a result of our debt redemptions and repayment activities during 2018;

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a $14 million increase in interest income due to our cash and cash equivalent balances earning interest at higher rates, along with a higher average cash balance, in 2019 as compared to 2018.

Income Tax Expense (amounts in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company’s income before income tax expense was $1.6 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, and our income tax expense was $130 million (or an 8% effective tax rate) and $29 million (or a 2% effective tax rate), respectively. Our full year 2019 effective tax rate of 8% is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to one-time tax benefits related to the intra-entity transfer of certain intellectual property rights, as further described below, and earnings taxed at relatively lower rates in foreign jurisdictions, partially offset by changes in the Company's liability for uncertain tax positions and audit settlements.

The effective tax rate in 2019 was higher than in 2018, primarily due to one-time tax benefits reported in the prior year related to the U.S. Tax Reform Act and an IRS audit settlement. This increase was partially offset by one-time tax benefits reported in the current year related to the intra-entity transfer of certain intellectual property rights, net of changes in the Company’s liability for uncertain tax positions in the current year.

The overall effective income tax rate in future periods will depend on a variety of factors, such as changes in pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, and rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audits and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income or loss.

Intellectual Property Right Transfer

In October 2019, we completed an intra-entity transfer of certain intellectual property rights to one of our subsidiaries in the U.K., aligning the ownership of these rights with our evolving business. The transfer did not result in a taxable gain; however, our U.K. subsidiary received a step-up in tax basis based on the fair value of the transferred intellectual property rights. Such fair value was determined based on our expectations of future cash flows, long-term growth rates, and discount rates. We recorded a one-time benefit of $230 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2019 for the recognition of a $1.1 billion deferred tax asset in the U.K. related to the amortizable tax basis in the transferred intellectual property, net of uncertain tax positions and valuation allowance, partially offset by a related $920 million deferred tax liability for U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. The U.K. amortizable tax basis will be recovered over a period of three to 25 years and the related deferred tax asset was measured using the U.K. corporate tax rates in effect for the years in which the amortization will be realized. We recorded a valuation allowance of $110 million for the portion of the deferred tax asset for which it is more-likely-than-not that a benefit will not be realized based on objective evidence available as of December 31, 2019. We will update the measurement and realizability analysis going forward and record the impact from any change in determination in the period of the change. 

48
French Tax Settlement

In December 2017, we received a Notice of Reassessment from the FTA related to transfer pricing for intercompany transactions involving one of our French subsidiaries for the 2011 through 2013 tax years. The total assessment, including interest and penalties, was approximately €571 million (approximately $638 million). In December 2019, the Company reached a settlement with the FTA for the 2011 through 2018 tax years, resulting in the recognition of $54 million of tax expense in the period ended December 31, 2019 and a tax payment of €161 million (approximately $179 million), including interest and penalties, in January 2020.

IRS Closing Agreement

On June 27, 2018, we entered into a closing agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to resolve certain intercompany transfer pricing arrangements for tax periods starting in 2009 (the “Closing Agreement”). The primary adjustments related to the Closing Agreement were recognized in the second quarter of 2018 and consisted of a tax expense of $70 million and a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of $437 million. In addition, we recognized $185 million of tax benefits related to other tax adjustments resulting from the changes in U.S. tax attributes and taxable income caused by the primary adjustments. The Closing Agreement resulted in federal and state cash tax payments totaling approximately $345 million, of which federal tax payments of $334 million were made in October 2018.

U.S. Tax Reform Act

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Reform Act was enacted. The U.S. Tax Reform Act, among other things, reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018 and implemented a modified territorial tax system that imposed a one-time tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the “Transition Tax”). In the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our analysis of the effect of the U.S. Tax Reform Act. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a net tax benefit of $340 million for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act. This is primarily related to adoption of global intangible low-taxed income deferred tax accounting and remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities, partially offset by tax expense related to Transition Tax.

Further analysis of the differences between the U.S. federal statutory rate and the consolidated effective tax rate, as well as other information about our income taxes, is provided in Note 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Foreign Exchange Impact

Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $71 million and a positive impact of $68 million on Activision Blizzard’s consolidated operating income in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and British pound and its impact on our foreign operating income.

Comparison of 2018 to 2017

For the comparison of 2018 to 2017, refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths. In the near term, we expect our business and financial condition to remain strong and to continue to generate significant operating cash flows, which, we believe, in combination with our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $5.9 billion, our access to capital, and the availability of our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our operational and financing requirements for the next 12 months. Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as potential dividend payments or share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities.

49
As of December 31, 2019, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $2.8 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2018. These cash balances are generally available for use in the U.S., subject in some cases to certain restrictions.

Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the fourth quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. We consider, on a continuing basis, various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our business results, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, share repurchases, and other structural changes. These transactions may result in future cash proceeds or payments.

Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

The primary driver of net cash flows associated with our operating activities is the collection of customer receivables generated from the sale of our products and services. These collections are typically partially offset by: payments to vendors for the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of our products; payments for customer service support for our consumers; payments to third-party developers and intellectual property holders; payments for interest on our debt; payments for software development; payments for tax liabilities; and payments to our workforce.

Net cash provided by operating activities for 2019 was $1.83 billion, as compared to $1.79 billion for 2018. The increase was primarily due to:

•lower tax payments, primarily due to payments for a tax settlement in the U.S. in 2018 with no comparable activity in 2019; and

•changes in our working capital resulting from the timing of collections and payments, in addition to lower cash spent to support the Destiny franchise (reflecting our sale of the publishing rights for Destiny to Bungie in December 2018).

The increase was partially offset by lower net income in 2019 as compared to 2018 and a decrease in non-cash adjustments to net income, primarily due to lower amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisition of King and lower amortization of capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses.

50
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities

The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions.

Net cash used in investing activities for 2019 was $22 million, as compared to $230 million for 2018. The decrease in the cash used in investing activities was primarily due to:

•lower purchases of available-for-sale investments, with $65 million of purchases in 2019, as compared to $209 million in 2018;

•higher proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale investments, with $153 million of proceeds in 2019, as compared to $116 million in 2018; and

•lower capital expenditures, with $116 million of expenditures in 2019, as compared to $131 million in 2018.

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt and transactions involving our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock to employees upon the exercise of stock options, as well as the payment of dividends.

Net cash used in financing activities for 2019 was $237 million, as compared to $2.0 billion for 2018. The decrease was primarily due to debt repayments, inclusive of premium payments, of $1.8 billion made in 2018, with no comparable repayment activity in 2019. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was further impacted by lower tax payments made for net share settlements on restricted stock units, with $59 million of payments in 2019, as compared to $94 million for 2018. These decreases were partially offset by higher dividends paid, with $283 million of dividend payments in 2019, as compared to $259 million for 2018.

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes

Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $3 million and $31 million on our cash and cash equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The change is primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and British pound.

Debt

At both December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our total outstanding debt was $2.7 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 3.18%.

A summary of our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2019, is as follows (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

51
A summary of our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2018, is as follows (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to Note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further disclosures regarding our debt obligations.

Dividends

On February 6, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.41 per common share, payable on May 6, 2020, to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 15, 2020.

On February 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share. On May 9, 2019, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $283 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 28, 2019. 

Capital Expenditures

We made capital expenditures of $116 million in 2019, as compared to $131 million in 2018. In 2020, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $135 million, primarily for computer hardware, leasehold improvements, and software purchases.

Commitments

Refer to Note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for disclosures regarding our commitments.

Comparison of 2018 to 2017

For the comparison of 2018 to 2017, refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019 under the subheading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, Activision Blizzard had no significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, often referred to as “structured finance” or “special purpose” entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.

52
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions. The impact and any associated risks related to these policies on our business operations are discussed throughout Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. The policies, estimates, and assumptions discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and because their application places the most significant demands on management’s judgment, with financial reporting results relying on estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Specific risks for these critical accounting policies, estimates, and assumptions are described in the following paragraphs. 

Adoption of Accounting Standards Codification 606: Revenue from Contracts with Customers

In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments. 

Revenue Recognition

We generate revenue primarily through the sale of our interactive entertainment content and services, principally for the console, PC, and mobile platforms, as well as through the licensing of our intellectual property. Our products span various genres, including first- and third-person action/adventure, role-playing, strategy, and “match three.” We primarily offer the following products and services:

•full games, which typically provide access to main game content, primarily for the console or PC platform;

•downloadable content, which provides players with additional in-game content to purchase following the purchase of a full game;

•microtransactions, which typically provide relatively small pieces of additional in-game content or enhancements to gameplay; and

•subscriptions to players in our World of Warcraft franchise, which provide continual access to the game content.

When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.

We determine revenue recognition by:

•identifying the contract, or contracts, with a customer;

•identifying the performance obligations in each contract;

•determining the transaction price;

•allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in each contract; and

•recognizing revenue when, or as, we satisfy performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services.

Certain products are sold to customers with a “street date” (which is the earliest date these products may be sold by retailers). For these products, we recognize revenues on the later of the street date and the date the product is sold to our customer. For digital full-game downloads sold to customers, we recognize revenue when it is available for download or is activated for gameplay. Revenues are recorded net of taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed at the time of the specific revenue-producing transaction between us and our customer, such as sales and value-added taxes.

53
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment immediately upon purchase or within 30 to 90 days. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we do not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component when we expect, at contract inception, that the period between our transfer of a promised product or service to our customer and payment for that product or service will be one year or less.

Product Sales

Product sales consist of sales of our games, including physical products and digital full-game downloads. We recognize revenues from the sale of our products after both (1) control of the products has been transferred to our customers and (2) the underlying performance obligations have been satisfied. Such revenues, which include our software products with significant online functionality and our online hosted software arrangements, are recognized in "Product sales" on our consolidated statement of operations.

Revenues from product sales are recognized after deducting the estimated allowance for returns and price protection, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and price protection are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available.

Sales incentives and other consideration given by us to our customers, such as rebates and product placement fees, are considered adjustments of the transaction price of our products and are reflected as reductions to revenues. Sales incentives and other consideration that represent costs incurred by us for distinct goods or services received, such as the appearance of our products in a customer’s national circular advertisement, are recorded as “Sales and marketing” expense when the benefit from the sales incentive is separable from sales to the same customer and we can reasonably estimate the fair value of the good or service.

Products with Online Functionality

For our software products that include both offline functionality (i.e., do not require an Internet connection to access) and significant online functionality, such as for most of our titles from the Call of Duty franchise, we evaluate whether the license of our intellectual property and the online functionality each represent separate and distinct performance obligations. In such instances, we typically have two performance obligations: (1) a license to the game software that is accessible without an Internet connection (predominantly the offline single player campaign or game mode) and (2) ongoing activities associated with the online components of the game, such as content updates, hosting of online content and gameplay, and online matchmaking (the “online functionality”). The online functionality generally operates to support the additional features and functionalities of the game that are only available online, not the offline license. This evaluation is performed for each software product or product add-on, including downloadable content. When we determine that our software products contain a license of intellectual property (i.e., the offline software license) that is separate and distinct from the online functionality, we consider market conditions and other observable inputs to estimate the standalone selling price for the performance obligations, since we do not generally sell the software license on a standalone basis. These products may be sold in a bundle with other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations.

For arrangements that include both a license to the game software that is accessible offline and separate online functionality, we recognize revenue when control of the license transfers to our customers for the portion of the transaction price allocable to the offline software license and ratably over the estimated service period for the portion of the transaction price allocable to the online functionality. Similarly, we defer a portion of the cost of revenues on these arrangements and recognize the costs as the related revenues are recognized. The cost of revenues that are deferred include product costs, distribution costs, and software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, and excludes intangible asset amortization.

54
Online Hosted Software Arrangements

For our online hosted software arrangements, such as titles for the Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush franchises, substantially all gameplay and functionality are obtained through our continuous hosting of the game content for the player. In these instances, we typically have a single performance obligation related to our ongoing activities in the hosted arrangement, including content updates, hosting of the gameplay, online matchmaking, and access to the game content. Similar to our software products with online functionality, these arrangements may include other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations. Revenues related to online hosted software arrangements are generally recognized ratably over the estimated service period.

Subscription, Licensing, and Other Revenues

Subscription Arrangements

Subscription revenue arrangements are mostly derived from World of Warcraft, which is playable through Blizzard’s servers and is generally sold on a subscription-only basis. Revenues associated with the sales of subscriptions are deferred until the subscription service is activated by the consumer and are then recognized ratably over the subscription period as the performance obligations are satisfied.

Revenues attributable to the purchase of World of Warcraft software by our customers, including expansion packs, are classified as “Product sales,” whereas revenues attributable to subscriptions and other in-game revenues are classified as “Subscription, licensing, and other revenues.”

Software Licensing Revenues

In certain countries, we utilize third-party licensees to distribute and host our games in accordance with license agreements, for which the licensees typically pay us a fixed minimum guarantee and sales-based royalties. These arrangements typically include multiple performance obligations, such as an upfront license of intellectual property and rights to specified or unspecified future updates. Our estimate of the selling price is comprised of several factors including, but not limited to, prior selling prices, prices charged separately by other third-party vendors for similar service offerings, and a cost-plus-margin approach. Based on the allocated transaction price, we recognize revenue associated with the minimum guarantee (1) when we transfer control of the upfront license of intellectual property, (2) upon transfer of control of future specified updates, and/or (3) ratably over the contractual term in which we provide the customer with unspecified future updates. Royalty payments in excess of the minimum guarantee are generally recognized when the licensed product is sold by the licensee. Revenues from these licensing arrangements with third-parties to distribute and host our games are recognized in "Subscriptions, licensing, and other revenues" on our consolidated statement of operations.

Other Revenues

Other revenues primarily include revenues from downloadable content (e.g., multi-player content packs), microtransactions, and licensing of intellectual property other than software to third-parties. These revenues are recognized in "Subscriptions, licensing, and other revenues" on our consolidated statement of operations.

Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual currencies and goods to our players to enhance their gameplay experience. Proceeds from these sales of virtual currencies and goods are initially recorded in deferred revenue. Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as revenues when a player uses the virtual goods purchased with a virtual currency. Proceeds from the direct sales of virtual goods are similarly recognized as revenues when a player uses the virtual goods. We categorize our virtual goods as either “consumable” or “durable.” Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed and our performance obligation is satisfied. Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player and our performance obligation is satisfied, which is generally the estimated service period.

55
Revenues from the licensing of intellectual property other than software to third parties primarily include the licensing of our (1) brand, logo, or franchise to customers and (2) media content. Fixed fee payments from customers for the license of our brand or franchise are generally recognized over the license term. Fixed fee payments from customers for the license of our media content are generally recognized when control has transferred to the customer, which may be upfront or over time.

Significant Judgment around Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables

Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Certain of our games, such as titles in the Call of Duty franchise, may contain a license of our intellectual property to play the game offline, but may also depend on a significant level of integration and interdependency with the online functionality. In these cases, significant judgment is required to determine whether this license of our intellectual property should be considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the online functionality provided and recognized over time. Generally, for titles in which the software license is functional without the online functionality and a significant component of gameplay is available offline, we believe we have separate performance obligations for the license of the intellectual property and the online functionality.

Significant judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation and to determine whether there is a discount that needs to be allocated based on the relative standalone selling price of the various products and services. To estimate the standalone selling price we generally consider market data, including our pricing strategies for the product being evaluated and other similar products we may offer, competitor pricing to the extent data is available, and the replayability design of both the offline and online components of our games. In limited instances, we may also utilize an expected cost approach to determine whether the estimated selling price yields an appropriate profit margin.

Estimated Service Period

We consider a variety of data points when determining the estimated service period for players of our games, including the weighted average number of days between players’ first and last days played online, the average total hours played, the average number of days in which player activity stabilizes, and the weighted-average number of days between players’ first purchase date and last date played online. We also consider known online trends, the service periods of our previously released games, and, to the extent publicly available, the service periods of our competitors’ games that are similar in nature to ours. We believe this provides a reasonable depiction of the transfer of services to our customers, as it is the best representation of the time period during which our customers play our games. Determining the estimated service period is subjective and requires management’s judgment. Future usage patterns may differ from historical usage patterns, and therefore the estimated service period may change in the future. The estimated service periods for players of our current games are generally less than 12 months.

Principal Agent Considerations

We evaluate sales of our products and content via third-party digital storefronts, such as Microsoft’s Xbox Games Store, Sony’s PSN, the Apple App Store, and the Google Play Store, to determine whether our revenues should be reported gross or net of fees retained by the storefront. Key indicators that we evaluate in determining whether we are the principal in the sale (gross reporting) or an agent (net reporting) include, but are not limited to:

•which party is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service; and

•which party has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service.

Based on our evaluation of the above indicators, we report revenues on a gross basis for sales arrangements via the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store, and we report revenues on a net basis (i.e., net of fees retained by the digital storefront) for sales arrangements via Microsoft’s Xbox Games Store and Sony’s PSN.

56
Income Taxes

We record a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, the provision for income taxes is computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We evaluate deferred tax assets each period for recoverability. For those assets that do not meet the threshold of “more likely than not” that they will be realized in the future, a valuation allowance is recorded.

Management believes it is more likely than not that forecasted income, including income that may be generated as a result of certain tax planning strategies, together with the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. In the event that all or part of the net deferred tax assets are determined not to be realizable in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would be charged to tax expense in the period such determination is made. The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of ASC Topic 740 and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management’s expectations could have a material impact on our business and results of operations in an interim period in which the uncertainties are ultimately resolved. 

Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties.

Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by: (1) changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates; (2) changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; (3) tax effects of nondeductible compensation; (4) tax costs related to intercompany realignments; (5) differences between amounts included in our tax filings and the estimate of such amounts included in our tax expenses; (6) changes in accounting principles; or (7) changes in tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles or interpretations, including fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to multinational corporations. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and are regularly subject to audit by other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.

As further described in “Consolidated Results” above, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Reform Act was enacted. The U.S. Tax Reform Act, among other things, reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018 and implemented a modified territorial tax system that imposed a one-time tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.

On December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued SAB 118, which provided guidance on how to account for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act under ASC 740. SAB 118 enabled companies to record a provisional amount for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act based on a reasonable estimate, subject to adjustment during a measurement period of up to one year, until accounting is complete. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our analysis to determine the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act. 

57
Software Development Costs

Software development costs include payments made to independent software developers under development agreements, as well as direct costs incurred for internally developed products. Software development costs are capitalized once the technological feasibility of a product is established and such costs are determined to be recoverable. Technological feasibility of a product requires both technical design documentation and game design documentation, or the completed and tested product design and a working model. Significant management judgments and estimates are utilized in the assessment of when technological feasibility is established and the evaluation is performed on a product-by-product basis. For products where proven technology exists, this may occur early in the development cycle. Software development costs related to online hosted revenue arrangements are capitalized after the preliminary project phase is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Prior to a product’s release, if and when we believe capitalized costs are not recoverable, we expense the amounts as part of “Cost of revenues—software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses.” Capitalized costs for products that are canceled or are expected to be abandoned are charged to “Product development” in the period of cancellation. Amounts related to software development which are not capitalized are charged immediately to “Product development.”

Commencing upon a product’s release, capitalized software development costs are amortized to “Cost of revenues—software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses” based on the ratio of current revenues to total projected revenues for the specific product, generally resulting in an amortization period of six months to approximately two years.

We evaluate the future recoverability of capitalized software development costs on a quarterly basis. For products that have been released in prior periods, the primary evaluation criterion is the actual performance of the title to which the costs relate. For products that are scheduled to be released in future periods, recoverability is evaluated based on the expected performance of the specific products to which the costs relate. Criteria used to evaluate expected product performance include: historical performance of comparable products developed with comparable technology; market performance of comparable titles; orders for the product prior to its release; general market conditions; and, for any sequel product, estimated performance based on the performance of the product on which the sequel is based.

Significant management judgments and estimates are utilized in assessing the recoverability of capitalized costs. In evaluating the recoverability of capitalized costs, the assessment of expected product performance utilizes forecasted sales amounts and estimates of additional costs to be incurred. If revised forecasted or actual product sales are less than the originally forecasted amounts utilized in the initial recoverability analysis, the net realizable value may be lower than originally estimated in any given quarter, which could result in an impairment charge. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of expenses for any period if matters resolve in a manner that is inconsistent with management’s expectations.

Fair Value Estimates

The preparation of financial statements often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item to fairly present in our consolidated financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the conclusion of the appropriate accounting.

58
There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include: (1) the market approach, where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value; (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present amount; and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to: (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset, liability or equity instrument being measured; (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows; (3) the time value of money associated with the delayed receipt or payment of such cash flows; and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (that is, the risk premium). Determining these cash flow estimates is inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to the assessments:

Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets 

We are required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and, if current events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. ASC Topic 350 provides companies an option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value before performing a quantitative two-step approach to testing goodwill for impairment. If a qualitative assessment is not used, or if the qualitative assessment is not conclusive, a quantitative impairment test is performed. For goodwill, the first step of the quantitative test measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. We perform our annual impairment test as of December 31. 

In the instances when a quantitative test is performed, we use a discounted cash flow approach to determine the fair values of the reporting units in performing the first step. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long-term growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates based on our weighted average cost of capital, and future economic and market conditions. These estimates and assumptions must be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, as well as on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. Assumptions used in our estimates are unpredictable and inherently uncertain, but we base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. Based on our annual impairment assessment, no impairments of goodwill were identified for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017.

We test our acquired trade names for possible impairment by applying the same process as for goodwill. In the instance when a qualitative test is not performed or is inconclusive, a quantitative test is performed by using a discounted cash flow model to estimate fair value of our acquired trade names. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, we concluded that no impairment had occurred.

For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

Recently issued accounting pronouncements that were most significant to our accounting policy activities for fiscal 2019 relate to our adoption of the new lease accounting standard, which we adopted on January 1, 2019. For a detailed discussion regarding the accounting adoption and impacts, see Note 2 and Note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

59
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK