Item 7. Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

21 Bank of America

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Bank of America Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its management may make certain statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as “anticipates,” “targets,” “expects,” “hopes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “continue” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “may,” “might,” “should,” “would” and “could.” Forward-looking statements represent the Corporation’s current expectations, plans or forecasts of its future results, revenues, expenses, efficiency ratio, capital measures, strategy and future business and economic conditions more generally, and other future matters. These statements are not guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond the Corporation’s control. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements. 

You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and should consider the following uncertainties and risks, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: the Corporation’s potential claims, damages, penalties, fines and reputational damage resulting from pending or future litigation, regulatory proceedings and enforcement actions; the possibility that the Corporation's future liabilities may be in excess of its recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation, regulatory and representations and warranties exposures; the possibility that the Corporation could face increased servicing, fraud, indemnity, contribution or other claims from one or more counterparties, including trustees, purchasers of loans, underwriters, issuers, monolines, private-label and other investors, or other parties involved in securitizations; the Corporation’s ability to resolve representations and warranties repurchase and related claims, including claims brought by investors or trustees seeking to avoid the statute of limitations for repurchase claims; the risks related to the discontinuation of the London Interbank Offered Rate and other reference rates, including increased expenses and litigation and the effectiveness of hedging strategies; uncertainties about the financial stability and growth rates of non-U.S. jurisdictions, the risk that those jurisdictions may face difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, and related stresses on financial markets, currencies and trade, and the Corporation’s exposures to such risks, including direct, indirect and operational; the impact of U.S. and global interest rates, inflation, currency exchange rates, economic conditions, trade policies and tensions, including tariffs, and potential geopolitical instability; the impact of the interest rate environment on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations; the possibility that future credit losses may be higher than currently expected due to changes in economic assumptions, customer behavior, adverse developments with respect to U.S. or global economic conditions and other uncertainties; the Corporation’s ability to achieve its expense targets and expectations regarding net interest income, provision for credit losses, net charge-offs, effective tax rate, loan growth or other projections; adverse changes to the Corporation’s credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies; an inability to access capital markets or maintain deposits or borrowing costs; estimates of the fair value and other accounting values, subject to impairment assessments, of certain of the Corporation’s assets and liabilities; the estimated or actual impact of changes in accounting standards or assumptions in applying those standards; uncertainty regarding the content, timing and 

impact of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements; the impact of adverse changes to total loss-absorbing capacity requirements and/or global systemically important bank surcharges; the potential impact of actions of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the Corporation’s capital plans; the effect of regulations, other guidance or additional information on the impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; the impact of implementation and compliance with U.S. and international laws, regulations and regulatory interpretations, including, but not limited to, recovery and resolution planning requirements, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments, the Volcker Rule, fiduciary standards and derivatives regulations; a failure or disruption in or breach of the Corporation’s operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, including as a result of cyber attacks or campaigns; the impact on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations from the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; the impact of any future federal government shutdown and uncertainty regarding the federal government’s debt limit; the impact of natural disasters, the emergence of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, military conflict, terrorism or other geopolitical events; and other matters.

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made.

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) are incorporated by reference into the MD&A. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Throughout the MD&A, the Corporation uses certain acronyms and abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary.

Executive Summary

Business Overview

The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, “the Corporation,” “we,” “us” and “our” may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation’s subsidiaries or affiliates. Our principal executive offices are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking, Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. We operate our banking activities primarily under the Bank of America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA) charter. At December 31, 2019, the Corporation had $2.4 trillion in assets and a headcount of approximately 208,000 employees.

As of December 31, 2019, we served clients through operations across the U.S., its territories and approximately 35 countries. Our retail banking footprint covers approximately 90 percent of the U.S. population, and we serve approximately 66 million consumer and small business clients with approximately 4,300 retail financial centers, approximately 16,800 ATMs, and leading digital banking platforms (www.bankofamerica.com) with more than 38 million active users, including over 29 million active mobile users. We offer industry-leading support to approximately 

  Bank of America  22

three million small business owners. Our wealth management businesses, with client balances of $3.0 trillion, provide tailored solutions to meet client needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking, trust and retirement products. We are a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world.

Recent Developments

Capital Management

During 2019, we repurchased $28.1 billion of common stock pursuant to the Corporation's Board of Directors’ (the Board) repurchase authorizations. For more information, see Capital Management on page 45. 

Merchant Services Joint Venture

A significant portion of our merchant processing activity is performed by a joint venture, formed in 2009, in which we own a 49 percent ownership interest. The joint venture is accounted for as an equity method investment. As previously disclosed in the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2019, we gave notice on July 29, 2019 to the joint venture partner of the termination of the joint venture upon the conclusion of its current term, after which we expect to pursue our own merchant services strategy. In addition, the Corporation and the joint venture partner have an agreement to provide uninterrupted delivery of products and services to the joint venture merchants through at least June 2023. As a result of the above actions, we incurred a non-cash, pretax impairment charge of $2.1 billion included in other general operating expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019. As stated above, the Corporation expects to pursue its own merchant services strategy, which is expected to begin in the third quarter of 2020. Under this strategy, we will begin to record the revenues and expenses from those operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income instead of recognizing our proportionate share of the joint venture's income under the equity method. For more information, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

U.K. Exit from the EU

On January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally exited the European Union (EU). Upon exit, a transition period began during which time the U.K. and the EU expect to negotiate a trade agreement and other terms associated with their future relationship. The transition period is scheduled to end on December 31, 2020.

We conduct business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa primarily through our subsidiaries in the U.K., Ireland and France. For information on the changes we have implemented to enable us to continue to operate in the region, including establishing a bank and broker-dealer in the EU, see the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2019. While we have taken measures to minimize operational disruption and prepare for various potential outcomes of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU, the preparedness of our counterparties and the relevant financial markets infrastructure remain outside our control. The global economic impact of the U.K.’s withdrawal from 

the EU remains uncertain and could result in regional and global 

financial market disruptions. We continue to assess potential risks, including operational, regulatory and legal risks.

LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rates

Following the 2017 announcement by the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that it will no longer persuade or require participating banks to submit rates for the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) after 2021, central banks and regulators around the world have commissioned working groups to find suitable replacements for Interbank Offered Rates (IBOR), including LIBOR, and other benchmark rates and to implement financial benchmark reforms more generally. The future discontinuance of IBORs is a complex process that has resulted in significant uncertainty regarding the transition to suitable alternative reference rates (ARRs) and could cause disruptions in a variety of global financial markets, as well as adversely impact our business, operations and financial results.

IBORs, including LIBOR, are used in many of the Corporation’s products and contracts, including mortgages, consumer, commercial and corporate loans, derivatives, floating-rate notes and other adjustable-rate products and financial instruments. The aggregate notional amount of these products and contracts is material to our business. As previously disclosed, to facilitate an orderly transition from IBORs and other benchmark rates to ARRs, the Corporation has established an enterprise-wide initiative led by senior management. As part of this initiative, the Corporation continues to identify, assess and monitor risks associated with the expected discontinuation or unavailability of LIBOR and other benchmarks and evaluate and address documentation and contractual mechanics of outstanding IBOR-based products and contracts that mature after 2021 and new and potential future ARR-based products and contracts to achieve operational readiness. Additionally, the Corporation is continuing to evaluate potential regulatory, tax and accounting impacts of the transition, including guidance published and/or proposed by the Internal Revenue Service and Financial Accounting Standards Board, engage impacted clients in connection with the transition to ARRs and work actively with global regulators, industry working groups and trade associations to develop strategies for an effective transition to ARRs. 

The Corporation is also modifying its operational models, systems, procedures and internal infrastructure to transition to ARRs. In 2019, the Corporation launched capabilities to support issuance and trading in products indexed to the new Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), which is the alternative benchmark rate to U.S. dollar LIBOR recommended by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a group of private-market participants and official-sector entities convened by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities. Also, in 2019, the Corporation issued debt linked to SOFR, and the Corporation co-arranged one of the first credit facilities linked to SOFR and has implemented fallback provisions into certain new IBOR-based products and contracts. The Corporation continues to monitor the development and usage of ARRs, including SOFR. For more information on the expected replacement of LIBOR and other benchmark rates, see Item 1A. Risk Factors - Other on page 17.

23 Bank of America

Financial Highlights

In the Consolidated Statement of Income, amounts related to certain asset and liability management (ALM) activities have been reclassified from other income to market making and similar activities, which was previously referred to as trading account income. All prior periods presented reflect this change, which has no impact on the Corporation's total noninterest income or net income, and has no impact on business segment results. For more information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net income was $27.4 billion or $2.75 per diluted share in 2019 compared to $28.1 billion, or $2.61 per diluted share in 2018. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by an increase in noninterest expense as a result of the $2.1 billion pretax impairment charge related to the notice of termination of the merchant services joint venture at the conclusion of its current term. Also contributing to the decrease in net income were higher provision for credit losses and lower noninterest income, partially offset by an increase in net interest income.

For discussion and analysis of our consolidated and business segment results of operations for 2018 compared to 2017, see 

the Financial Highlights and Business Segment Operations sections in the MD&A of the Corporation's 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Net Interest Income

Net interest income increased $729 million to $48.9 billion in 2019 compared 2018. Net interest yield on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis decreased two basis points (bps) to 2.43 percent for 2019. The increase in net interest income was primarily driven by loan and deposit growth, partially offset by lower long-end rates. Assuming a stable economic and interest rate environment compared to December 31, 2019, we expect quarterly net interest income for the first two quarters of 2020 to be lower compared to the fourth quarter of 2019 driven by the impact of rates and one fewer day of interest accruals. Quarterly net interest income is expected to rise modestly in the second half of 2020 due to one additional day of interest accruals and expected loan and deposit growth. For more information on net interest yield and the FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27, and for more information on interest rate risk management, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.

Noninterest Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Noninterest income decreased $505 million to $42.4 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The following highlights the significant changes.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

●Investment and brokerage services income decreased $258 million primarily due to lower transactional revenue and a decrease in assets under management (AUM) pricing, partially offset by the positive impact of AUM flows and higher market valuations.

●Investment banking fees increased $315 million due to increases in advisory fees and equity and debt underwriting fees.

●Other income decreased $468 million primarily due to lower gains on sales of non-core consumer loans and higher partnership losses associated with an increase in tax-advantaged investments, partially offset by higher gains on sales of debt securities.

  Bank of America  24

Provision for Credit Losses

The provision for credit losses increased $308 million to $3.6 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was primarily due to the energy reserve releases in the commercial portfolio in 2018, partially offset by the impact of recoveries recorded in connection with sales of previously charged-off non-core consumer real estate loans. For more information on the provision for credit losses, see Provision for Credit Losses on page 68.

Noninterest Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Noninterest expense increased $1.7 billion to $54.9 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was primarily due to the 

aforementioned impairment charge related to our merchant services joint venture of $2.1 billion as well as increased costs associated with investment in the businesses, including brand-related marketing costs, and higher litigation expense. These were partially offset by efficiency savings, lower Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) expense and lower amortization of intangibles expense.

Income Tax Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The effective tax rates for 2019 and 2018 reflect the impact of our recurring tax preference benefits. The 2019 effective rate also included net tax benefits primarily related to the resolution of various tax controversy matters.

We expect the effective tax rate for 2020 to be approximately 18 percent, absent unusual items.

Balance Sheet Overview

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Assets

At December 31, 2019, total assets were approximately $2.4 trillion, up $79.6 billion from December 31, 2018. The increase in assets was primarily due to higher loans and leases and debt securities primarily funded by deposit growth. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents decreased $15.8 billion driven by investment of short-term excess cash into securities purchased under agreements to resell, debt securities and growth in loans and leases.

Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell

Federal funds transactions involve lending reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell are collateralized lending transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads, and obtain securities for settlement and for collateral. Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell increased $13.5 billion due to investment of excess cash levels.

25 Bank of America

Trading Account Assets

Trading account assets consist primarily of long positions in equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. government and agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign debt. Trading account assets increased $15.5 billion primarily driven by additional inventory in Global Markets to facilitate client demand.

Debt Securities

Debt securities primarily include U.S. Treasury and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), principally agency MBS, non-U.S. bonds, corporate bonds and municipal debt. We use the debt securities portfolio primarily to manage interest rate and liquidity risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create economically attractive returns on these investments. Debt securities increased $30.4 billion primarily driven by the deployment of deposit inflows. For more information on debt securities, see Note 4 – Securities to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Loans and Leases

Loans and leases increased $36.5 billion primarily due to net loan growth driven by client demand for commercial loans and increases in residential mortgage. For more information on the loan portfolio, see Credit Risk Management on page 53.

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses

The allowance for loan and lease losses decreased $185 million primarily due to the impact of improvements in credit quality from a stronger economy and continued runoff and sales in the non-core consumer real estate portfolio. For more information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 68.

Liabilities

At December 31, 2019, total liabilities were approximately $2.2 trillion, up $80.1 billion from December 31, 2018, primarily due to deposit growth.

Deposits

Deposits increased $53.3 billion primarily due to increases in both retail and wholesale deposits. 

Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase

Federal funds transactions involve borrowing reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized borrowing transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads and finance assets on the balance sheet. Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase decreased $21.9 billion primarily driven by balance sheet efficiencies within Global Markets.

Trading Account Liabilities

Trading account liabilities consist primarily of short positions in equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. Treasury and agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign debt. Trading account liabilities increased $15.1 billion primarily due to higher levels of short positions in government and corporate bonds driven by client demand within Global Markets.

Short-term Borrowings

Short-term borrowings provide an additional funding source and primarily consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) short-term borrowings, notes payable and various other borrowings that generally have maturities of one year or less. Short-term borrowings increased $4.0 billion primarily due to an increase in short-term FHLB advances to manage liquidity needs. For more information on short-term borrowings, see Note 11 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Long-term Debt

Long-term debt increased $11.5 billion primarily driven by debt issuances and valuation adjustments, partially offset by maturities and redemptions. For more information on long-term debt, see Note 12 – Long-term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

All Other Liabilities

All other liabilities increased $18.1 billion primarily driven by an increase in broker-dealer payables within Global Markets due to timing of unsettled trades and an increase in lease liabilities due to implementation of the new lease accounting standard.

Shareholders’ Equity

Shareholders’ equity decreased $515 million driven by returns of capital to shareholders through share repurchases, common and preferred stock dividends of $35.7 billion, as well as redemption of preferred stock, largely offset by earnings, market value increases on debt securities and issuances of preferred stock.

Cash Flows Overview

The Corporation’s operating assets and liabilities support our global markets and lending activities. We believe that cash flows from operations, available cash balances and our ability to generate cash through short- and long-term debt are sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. Our investing activities primarily include the debt securities portfolio and loans and leases. Our financing activities reflect cash flows primarily related to customer deposits, securities financing agreements and long-term debt. For more information on liquidity, see Liquidity Risk on page 50.

  Bank of America  26

Supplemental Financial Data

In this Form 10-K, we present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items or otherwise include components that differ from the most directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Non-GAAP financial measures are provided as additional useful information to assess our financial condition, results of operations (including period-to-period operating performance) or compliance with prospective regulatory requirements. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended as a substitute for GAAP financial measures and may not be defined or calculated the same way as non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.

We view net interest income and related ratios and analyses on an FTE basis, which when presented on a consolidated basis are non-GAAP financial measures. To derive the FTE basis, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt income on an equivalent before-tax basis with a corresponding increase in income tax expense. For purposes of this calculation, we use the federal statutory tax rate of 21 percent for 2019 and 2018 (35 percent for 2017) and a representative state tax rate. Net interest yield, which measures the basis points we earn over the cost of funds, utilizes net interest income on an FTE basis. We believe that presentation of these items on an FTE basis allows for comparison of amounts from both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with industry practices.

We may present certain key performance indicators and ratios excluding certain items (e.g., debit valuation adjustment (DVA) gains (losses)) which result in non-GAAP financial measures. We believe that the presentation of measures that exclude these items

is useful because such measures provide additional information to assess the underlying operational performance and trends of our businesses and to allow better comparison of period-to-period operating performance.

We also evaluate our business based on certain ratios that utilize tangible equity, a non-GAAP financial measure. Tangible equity represents shareholders’ equity or common shareholders’ 

equity reduced by goodwill and intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)), net of related deferred tax liabilities ("adjusted" shareholders' equity or common shareholders' equity). These measures are used to evaluate our use of equity. In addition, profitability, relationship and investment models use both return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity and return on average tangible shareholders’ equity as key measures to support our overall growth goals. These ratios are as follows:

●Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity measures our net income applicable to common shareholders as a percentage of adjusted average common shareholders’ equity. The tangible common equity ratio represents adjusted ending common shareholders’ equity divided by total tangible assets.

●Return on average tangible shareholders' equity measures our net income as a percentage of adjusted average total shareholders’ equity. The tangible equity ratio represents adjusted ending shareholders’ equity divided by total tangible assets.

●Tangible book value per common share represents adjusted ending common shareholders’ equity divided by ending common shares outstanding.

We believe that the use of ratios that utilize tangible equity provides additional useful information because they present measures of those assets that can generate income. Tangible book value per common share provides additional useful information about the level of tangible assets in relation to outstanding shares of common stock.

The aforementioned supplemental data and performance measures are presented in Tables 6 and 7.

For more information on the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP financial measures, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 80.

27 Bank of America

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Asset quality metrics include $75 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card net charge-offs in 2017 and $243 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card allowance for loan and lease losses, $9.2 billion of non-U.S. consumer credit card loans and $175 million of non-U.S. consumer credit card net charge-offs in 2016. The non-U.S. consumer credit card business was sold in 2017.

(3) Includes the allowance for loan and leases losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/a = not applicable

  Bank of America  28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Calculated as total net income for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29 Bank of America

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is generally recognized on a cost recovery basis.

(3) Includes assets of the Corporation's non-U.S. consumer credit card business, which was sold during the second quarter of 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  Bank of America  30

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of change attributable to the variance in rate for that category. The unallocated change in rate or volume variance is allocated between the rate and volume variances.

(2) The Corporation sold its non-U.S. credit card business in the second quarter of 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31 Bank of America

Business Segment Operations

Segment Description and Basis of Presentation

We report our results of operations through the following four business segments: Consumer Banking, GWIM, Global Banking and Global Markets, with the remaining operations recorded in All Other. We manage our segments and report their results on an FTE basis. The primary activities, products and businesses of the business segments and All Other are shown below.

We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning processes. We utilize a methodology that considers the effect of regulatory capital requirements in addition to internal risk-based capital models. Our internal risk-based capital models use a risk-adjusted methodology incorporating each segment’s credit, market, interest rate, business and operational risk components. For more information on the nature of these risks, see Managing Risk on page 42. The capital allocated to the business segments is referred to as allocated capital. Allocated equity in the reporting 

units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting unit. For more information, including the definition of a reporting unit, see Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For more information on our presentation of financial information on an FTE basis, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27, and for reconciliations to consolidated total revenue, net income and year-end total assets, see Note 24 – Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  Bank of America  32

Consumer Banking

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Estimated at the segment level only.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consumer Banking, which is comprised of Deposits and Consumer Lending, offers a diversified range of credit, banking and investment products and services to consumers and small businesses. Deposits and Consumer Lending include the net impact of migrating customers and their related deposit, brokerage asset and loan balances between Deposits, Consumer Lending and GWIM, as well as other client-managed businesses. Our customers and clients have access to a coast to coast network including financial centers in 38 states and the District of Columbia. Our network includes approximately 4,300 financial centers, approximately 16,800 ATMs, nationwide call centers, and leading digital banking platforms with more than 38 million active users, including over 29 million active mobile users.

Consumer Banking Results

Net income for Consumer Banking increased $852 million to $13.0 billion in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily driven by higher net interest income and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower noninterest income. Net interest income increased $1.1 billion to $28.2 billion primarily due to growth in deposits and loans. Noninterest income decreased $164 million to $10.4 billion driven by lower service charges and lower mortgage banking income, largely offset by higher results from ALM activities.

The provision for credit losses increased $108 million to $3.8 billion driven by overdrafts and portfolio seasoning in the credit card portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $54 million to 

$17.6 billion primarily driven by lower FDIC expense and operating efficiencies, partially offset by continued investment in the business.

The return on average allocated capital was 35 percent, up from 33 percent, driven by higher net income. For information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.

Deposits

Deposits includes the results of consumer deposit activities which consist of a comprehensive range of products provided to consumers and small businesses. Our deposit products include traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts, CDs and IRAs, and noninterest- and interest-bearing checking accounts, as well as investment accounts and products. Net interest income is allocated to the deposit products using our funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. Deposits generates fees such as account service fees, non-sufficient funds fees, overdraft charges and ATM fees, as well as investment and brokerage fees from Merrill Edge accounts. Merrill Edge is an integrated investing and banking service targeted at customers with less than $250,000 in investable assets. Merrill Edge provides investment advice and guidance, client brokerage asset services, a self-directed online investing platform and key banking capabilities including access to the Corporation’s network of financial centers and ATMs.

33 Bank of America

Net income for Deposits increased $746 million to $8.3 billion driven by higher net interest income. Net interest income increased $965 million to $16.9 billion primarily due to growth in deposits and pricing discipline. Noninterest income decreased $11 million to $5.0 billion primarily driven by lower service charges, largely offset by higher results from ALM activities.

The provision for credit losses increased $74 million to $269 million in 2019. Noninterest expense increased $25 million to $10.7 billion driven by continued investment in the business, partially offset by lower FDIC expense and operating efficiencies.

Average deposits increased $24.3 billion to $702.9 billion in 2019 driven by strong organic growth. Growth in checking and time deposits of $27.0 billion was partially offset by a decline in traditional savings and money market savings of $2.5 billion.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes deposits held in Consumer Lending.

(2) Includes client brokerage assets, deposit sweep balances and AUM in Consumer Banking.

(3) Active digital banking users represents mobile and/or online users.

Consumer investment assets increased $54 billion in 2019 driven by strong market performance and client flows. Active mobile banking users increased 3 million reflecting continuing changes in our customers’ banking preferences. The number of financial centers declined by a net 41 reflecting changes in customer preferences to self-service options as we continue to optimize our consumer banking network and improve our cost to serve.

Consumer Lending

Consumer Lending offers products to consumers and small businesses across the U.S. The products offered include credit and debit cards, residential mortgages and home equity loans, and direct and indirect loans such as automotive, recreational vehicle and consumer personal loans. In addition to earning net interest spread revenue on its lending activities, Consumer Lending generates interchange revenue from credit and debit card transactions, late fees, cash advance fees, annual credit card fees, mortgage banking fee income and other miscellaneous fees. Consumer Lending products are available to our customers through our retail network, direct telephone, and online and mobile channels. Consumer Lending results also include the impact of servicing residential mortgages and home equity loans in the core portfolio, including loans held on the balance sheet of Consumer Lending and loans serviced for others.

Net income for Consumer Lending increased $106 million to $4.7 billion driven by higher net interest income and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower noninterest income. Net interest income increased $168 million to $11.3 billion driven by loan growth. Noninterest income decreased $153 million to $5.4 billion primarily driven by lower mortgage banking income and lower card income.

The provision for credit losses increased $34 million to $3.5 billion primarily driven by portfolio seasoning in the credit card portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $79 million to $6.9 billion primarily driven by operating efficiencies.

Average loans increased $17.0 billion to $295.6 billion primarily driven by increases in residential mortgages and credit card, partially offset by lower home equity loans.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes GWIM's credit card portfolio.

During 2019, the total credit card risk-adjusted margin increased 3 bps compared to 2018, primarily driven by a portfolio shift away from promotional-rate loans. Total credit card purchase volumes increased $13.1 billion to $277.9 billion, and debit card purchase volumes increased $21.9 billion to $360.7 billion, reflecting higher levels of consumer spending.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The loan production amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of loans and, in the case of home equity, the principal amount of the total line of credit.

(2) In addition to loan production in Consumer Banking, there is also first mortgage and home equity loan production in GWIM.

First mortgage loan originations in Consumer Banking and for the total Corporation increased $21.9 billion and $31.3 billion in 2019 primarily driven by a lower interest rate environment driving higher first-lien mortgage refinances.

Home equity production in Consumer Banking and for the total Corporation decreased $3.5 billion and $3.7 billion in 2019 primarily driven by lower demand.

  Bank of America  34

Global Wealth & Investment Management

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GWIM consists of two primary businesses: Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management (MLGWM) and Bank of America Private Bank.

MLGWM’s advisory business provides a high-touch client experience through a network of financial advisors focused on clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets. MLGWM provides tailored solutions to meet clients’ needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking and retirement products. 

Bank of America Private Bank, together with MLGWM’s Private Wealth Management business, provides comprehensive wealth management solutions targeted to high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, as well as customized solutions to meet clients’ wealth structuring, investment management, trust and banking needs, including specialty asset management services. 

Net income for GWIM increased $264 million to $4.3 billion due to lower noninterest expense and higher revenue. The operating margin was 29 percent compared to 28 percent in 2018.

Net interest income increased $239 million to $6.5 billion due to the impact of growth in deposits and loans. 

Noninterest income, which primarily includes investment and brokerage services income, decreased $155 million to $13.0 billion. The decrease was primarily driven by declines in AUM pricing and transactional revenue, partially offset by the impact of positive AUM flows and higher market valuations.

Noninterest expense decreased $192 million to $13.8 billion, as investments for business growth were more than offset by lower amortization of intangibles and FDIC expense.

The return on average allocated capital was 29 percent, up from 28 percent, due to higher net income. 

MLGWM revenue of $16.1 billion increased one percent primarily driven by higher net interest income and the impact of positive AUM flows and higher market valuations, partially offset by lower transactional volumes and AUM pricing. 

Bank of America Private Bank revenue of $3.4 billion decreased one percent primarily due to lower net interest income.

35 Bank of America

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes margin receivables which are classified in customer and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Client Balances 

Client balances managed under advisory and/or discretion of GWIM are AUM and are typically held in diversified portfolios. Fees earned on AUM are calculated as a percentage of clients’ AUM balances. The asset management fees charged to clients per year depend on various factors, but are commonly driven by the breadth of the client’s relationship. The net client AUM flows represent the 

net change in clients’ AUM balances over a specified period of time, excluding market appreciation/depreciation and other adjustments.

Client balances increased $426.9 billion, or 16 percent, to $3.0 trillion at December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018. The increase in client balances was primarily due to higher market valuations and positive net flows over the last year.

  Bank of America  36

Global Banking

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

Global Banking, which includes Global Corporate Banking, Global Commercial Banking, Business Banking and Global Investment Banking, provides a wide range of lending-related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions, and underwriting and advisory services through our network of offices and client relationship teams. Our lending products and services include commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, commercial real estate lending and asset-based lending. Our treasury solutions business includes treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term investing options. We also provide investment banking products to our clients such as debt and equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and other advisory services. Underwriting debt and equity issuances, fixed-income and equity research, and certain market-based activities are executed through our global broker-dealer affiliates, which are our primary dealers in several countries. Within Global Banking, Global Commercial Banking clients generally include middle-market companies, commercial real estate firms and not-for-profit companies. Global Corporate Banking clients generally include large global corporations, financial institutions and leasing clients. Business Banking clients include mid-sized U.S.-based businesses requiring customized and integrated financial advice and solutions. 

Net income for Global Banking decreased $257 million to $8.1 billion in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily driven by higher provision for credit losses and noninterest expense partially offset by higher revenue. 

Revenue increased $482 million to $20.5 billion driven by higher noninterest income, partially offset by lower net interest income. Net interest income decreased $318 million to $10.7 billion primarily due to the allocation of ALM results and credit spread compression, partly offset by growth in loan and deposit balances.

Noninterest income increased $800 million to $9.8 billion primarily due to higher leasing-related revenue and investment banking fees. The provision for credit losses increased $406 million to $414 million primarily driven by reserve releases in 2018 primarily from energy exposures. Noninterest expense increased $272 million primarily due to continued investment in the business partially offset by lower FDIC expense.

The return on average allocated capital was 20 percent in 2019 and 2018. For information on capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.

Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking 

Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking each include Business Lending and Global Transaction Services activities. Business Lending includes various lending-related products and services, and related hedging activities, including commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending and asset-based lending. Global Transaction Services includes deposits, treasury management, credit card, foreign exchange and short-term investment products.

37 Bank of America

The table below and following discussion present a summary of the results, which exclude certain investment banking activities in Global Banking.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Business Lending revenue decreased $176 million in 2019 compared to 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by the allocation of ALM results, partly offset by higher leasing-related revenue. 

Global Transaction Services revenue increased $392 million in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by the impact of higher deposit balances.

Average loans and leases increased six percent in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by growth in the commercial and industrial portfolio. Average deposits increased eight percent due to growth in domestic and international interest-bearing balances.

Global Investment Banking

Client teams and product specialists underwrite and distribute debt, equity and loan products, and provide advisory services and tailored risk management solutions. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between Global Banking and Global Markets under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment 

banking fees, the following table presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the portion attributable to Global Banking.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total Corporation investment banking fees, excluding self-led deals, of $5.6 billion, which are primarily included within Global Banking and Global Markets, increased six percent due to increases in advisory fees as well as higher equity issuance fees. 

  Bank of America  38

Global Markets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

Global Markets offers sales and trading services and research services to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit, currency, commodity and equity businesses. Global Markets product coverage includes securities and derivative products in both the primary and secondary markets. Global Markets provides market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and custody services globally to our institutional investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities. We also work with our commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related products. As a result of our market-making activities in these products, we may be required to manage risk in a broad range of financial products including government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities, syndicated loans, MBS, commodities and asset-backed securities. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between Global Markets and Global Banking under an internal revenue-sharing arrangement. Global Banking originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by Global Markets. For information on investment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page 38.

The following explanations for year-over-year changes in results for Global Markets, including those disclosed under Sales and Trading Revenue, exclude net DVA, but the explanations would be the same if net DVA was included.

Net income for Global Markets decreased $454 million to $3.5 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. Net DVA losses were $222 million compared to losses of $162 million in 2018. Excluding net DVA, net income decreased $408 million to $3.7 billion. These decreases were primarily driven by a decrease in revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense.

Revenue declined $569 million to $15.6 billion as sales and trading revenue decreased $492 million, and excluding net DVA, decreased $432 million. These decreases were primarily driven by a decline in Equities revenue. Noninterest expense decreased $113 million to $10.7 billion, primarily driven by lower revenue-related expenses.

Average total assets increased $13.3 billion to $679.3 billion, primarily due to increased levels of inventory in fixed-income, currencies and commodities (FICC) to facilitate expected client demand. Year-end total assets were largely unchanged at $641.8 billion.

The return on average allocated capital was 10 percent, down from 11 percent, reflecting lower net income. For information on 

39 Bank of America

capital allocated to the business segments, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.

Sales and Trading Revenue

Sales and trading revenue includes unrealized and realized gains and losses on trading and other assets which are included in market making and similar activities, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Sales and trading revenue is segregated into fixed-income (government debt obligations, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt obligations, commercial MBS, residential mortgage-backed securities, collateralized loan obligations, interest rate and credit derivative contracts), currencies (interest rate and foreign exchange contracts), commodities (primarily futures, forwards, swaps and options) and equities (equity-linked derivatives and cash equity activity). The following table and related discussion present sales and trading revenue, substantially all of which is in Global Markets, with the remainder in Global Banking. In addition, the following table and related discussion present sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information on net DVA, see Supplemental Financial Data on page 27.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For more information on sales and trading revenue, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FICC revenue decreased $17 million. Equities revenue decreased $415 million driven by under performance in equity derivatives compared to a strong prior year which benefited from higher client activity and a more volatile market environment.

All Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

All Other consists of ALM activities, equity investments, non-core mortgage loans and servicing activities, liquidating businesses and certain expenses not otherwise allocated to a business segment. ALM activities encompass certain residential mortgages, debt securities, and interest rate and foreign currency risk management activities. Substantially all of the results of ALM activities are allocated to our business segments. For more information on our ALM activities, see Note 24 – Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity investments include our merchant services joint venture, as well as a portfolio of equity, real estate and other alternative investments. For information on our merchant services joint venture, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Residential mortgage loans that are held for ALM purposes, including interest rate or liquidity risk management, are classified as core and are presented on the balance sheet of All Other. During 2019, residential mortgage loans held for ALM activities decreased $3.2 billion to $21.7 billion primarily as a result of payoffs and paydowns. Non-core residential mortgage and home equity loans, which are principally runoff portfolios, are also held in All Other. During 2019, total non-core loans decreased $7.8 billion to $15.7 billion due primarily to payoffs, paydowns and sales, as well as Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan conveyances, partially offset by repurchases. For more information on the composition of the core and non-core portfolios, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 54.

  Bank of America  40

The net loss for All Other increased $1.1 billion to a net loss of $1.4 billion, primarily driven by the $2.1 billion pretax impairment charge disclosed in Executive Summary – Recent Developments – Merchant Services Joint Venture, as well as lower revenue, partially offset by a higher benefit in the provision for credit losses.

Revenue decreased $757 million due to lower net interest income and an increase in the loss in noninterest income. Net interest income decreased $398 million due to the impact of non-core consumer real estate loan sales and portfolio run-off. The loss in noninterest income increased $359 million primarily due to lower gains on sales of non-core consumer loans and higher partnership losses associated with an increase in tax-advantaged investments, partially offset by a $729 million charge related to the redemption of certain trust preferred securities in 2018.

Noninterest expense increased $1.8 billion to $3.7 billion primarily due to the aforementioned $2.1 billion pretax impairment charge. 

The income tax benefit was $4.1 billion compared to a benefit of $2.8 billion in 2018. The increase in the tax benefit was primarily driven by the tax effect of the higher pretax loss, the positive impact from the resolution of various tax controversy matters and a higher level of income tax credits. Both years included income tax benefit adjustments to eliminate the FTE treatment of certain tax credits recorded in Global Banking.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

We have contractual obligations to make future payments on debt and lease agreements. Additionally, in the normal course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements whereby we commit to future purchases of products or services from unaffiliated parties. Purchase obligations are defined as obligations that are legally binding agreements whereby we agree 

to purchase products or services with a specific minimum quantity at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified period of time. Included in purchase obligations are vendor contracts, the most significant of which include communication services, processing services and software contracts. Debt, lease and other obligations are more fully discussed in Note 12 – Long-term Debt and Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other long-term liabilities include our contractual funding obligations related to the Non-U.S. Pension Plans and Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans (together, the Plans). Obligations to the Plans are based on the current and projected obligations of the Plans, performance of the Plans’ assets, and any participant contributions, if applicable. During 2019 and 2018, we contributed $135 million and $156 million to the Plans, and we expect to make $128 million of contributions during 2020. The Plans are more fully discussed in Note 18 – Employee Benefit Plans to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We enter into commitments to extend credit such as loan commitments, standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and commercial letters of credit to meet the financing needs of our customers. For a summary of the total unfunded, or off-balance sheet, credit extension commitment amounts by expiration date, see Credit Extension Commitments in Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We also utilize variable interest entities (VIEs) in the ordinary course of business to support our financing and investing needs as well as those of our customers. For more information on our involvement with unconsolidated VIEs, see Note 7 – Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Table 10 includes certain contractual obligations at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41 Bank of America

Representations and Warranties Obligations

For information on representations and warranties obligations in connection with the sale of mortgage loans, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Managing Risk

Overview

Risk is inherent in all our business activities. Sound risk management enables us to serve our customers and deliver for our shareholders. If not managed well, risks can result in financial loss, regulatory sanctions and penalties, and damage to our reputation, each of which may adversely impact our ability to execute our business strategies. We take a comprehensive approach to risk management with a defined Risk Framework and an articulated Risk Appetite Statement which are approved annually by the Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC) and the Board.

The seven key types of risk faced by the Corporation are strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational.

●Strategic risk is the risk resulting from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments in the geographic locations in which we operate.

●Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations.

●Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings.

●Liquidity risk is the inability to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our businesses and customers under a range of economic conditions.

●Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules and regulations and our internal policies and procedures.

●Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems, or from external events.

●Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation’s conduct or business practices may adversely impact its profitability or operations.

The following sections address in more detail the specific procedures, measures and analyses of the major categories of risk. This discussion of managing risk focuses on the current Risk Framework that, as part of its annual review process, was approved by the ERC and the Board.

As set forth in our Risk Framework, a culture of managing risk well is fundamental to fulfilling our purpose and our values and delivering responsible growth. It requires us to focus on risk in all activities and encourages the necessary mindset and behavior to enable effective risk management, and promotes sound risk-taking within our risk appetite. Sustaining a culture of managing risk well

throughout the organization is critical to our success and is a clear expectation of our executive management team and the Board.

Our Risk Framework serves as the foundation for the consistent and effective management of risks facing the Corporation. The Risk Framework sets forth clear roles, responsibilities and accountability for the management of risk and provides a blueprint for how the Board, through delegation of authority to committees and executive officers, establishes risk appetite and associated limits for our activities.

Executive management assesses, with Board oversight, the risk-adjusted returns of each business. Management reviews and approves the strategic and financial operating plans, as well as the capital plan and Risk Appetite Statement, and recommends them annually to the Board for approval. Our strategic plan takes into consideration return objectives and financial resources, which must align with risk capacity and risk appetite. Management sets financial objectives for each business by allocating capital and setting a target for return on capital for each business. Capital allocations and operating limits are regularly evaluated as part of our overall governance processes as the businesses and the economic environment in which we operate continue to evolve. For more information regarding capital allocations, see Business Segment Operations on page 32.

The Corporation’s risk appetite indicates the amount of capital, earnings or liquidity we are willing to put at risk to achieve our strategic objectives and business plans, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. Our risk appetite provides a common and comparable set of measures for senior management and the Board to clearly indicate our aggregate level of risk and to monitor whether the Corporation’s risk profile remains in alignment with our strategic and capital plans. Our risk appetite is formally articulated in the Risk Appetite Statement, which includes both qualitative components and quantitative limits.

Our overall capacity to take risk is limited; therefore, we prioritize the risks we take in order to maintain a strong and flexible financial position so we can withstand challenging economic conditions and take advantage of organic growth opportunities. Therefore, we set objectives and targets for capital and liquidity that are intended to permit us to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner, including during periods of stress.

Our lines of business operate with risk limits (which may include credit, market and/or operational limits, as applicable) that align with the Corporation’s risk appetite. Executive management is responsible for tracking and reporting performance measurements as well as any exceptions to guidelines or limits. The Board, and its committees when appropriate, oversee financial performance, execution of the strategic and financial operating plans, adherence to risk appetite limits and the adequacy of internal controls.

For a more detailed discussion of our risk management activities, see the discussion below and pages 45 through 77. 

Risk Management Governance

The Risk Framework describes delegations of authority whereby the Board and its committees may delegate authority to management-level committees or executive officers. Such delegations may authorize certain decision-making and approval functions, which may be evidenced in, for example, committee charters, job descriptions, meeting minutes and resolutions.

  Bank of America  42

The chart below illustrates the inter-relationship among the Board, Board committees and management committees that have the majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the Corporation.

(1) Reports to the CEO and CFO with oversight by the Audit Committee

Board of Directors and Board Committees

The Board is composed of 17 directors, all but one of whom are independent. The Board authorizes management to maintain an effective Risk Framework, and oversees compliance with safe and sound banking practices. In addition, the Board or its committees conduct inquiries of, and receive reports from management on risk-related matters to assess scope or resource limitations that could impede the ability of Independent Risk Management (IRM) and/or Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Board committees discussed below have the principal responsibility for enterprise-wide oversight of our risk management activities. Through these activities, the Board and applicable committees are provided with information on our risk profile and oversee executive management addressing key risks we face. Other Board committees, as described below, provide additional oversight of specific risks.

Each of the committees shown on the above chart regularly reports to the Board on risk-related matters within the committee’s responsibilities, which is intended to collectively provide the Board with integrated insight about our management of enterprise-wide risks.

Audit Committee

The Audit Committee oversees the qualifications, performance and independence of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the performance of our corporate audit function, the integrity of our consolidated financial statements, our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and makes inquiries of management or the Chief Audit Executive (CAE) to determine whether there are scope or resource limitations that impede the ability of Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Audit Committee is also responsible for overseeing compliance risk pursuant to the New York Stock Exchange listing standards.

Enterprise Risk Committee 

The ERC has primary responsibility for oversight of the Risk Framework and key risks we face and of the Corporation’s overall risk appetite. It approves the Risk Framework and the Risk Appetite Statement and further recommends these documents to the Board for approval. The ERC oversees senior management’s responsibilities for the identification, measurement, monitoring and control of key risks we face. The ERC may consult with other Board committees on risk-related matters.

Other Board Committees

Our Corporate Governance, ESG, and Sustainability Committee oversees our Board’s governance processes, identifies and reviews the qualifications of potential Board members, recommends nominees for election to our Board, recommends committee appointments for Board approval and reviews our Environmental, Social and Governance and stockholder engagement activities.

Our Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees establishing, maintaining and administering our compensation programs and employee benefit plans, including approving and recommending our Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO) compensation to our Board for further approval by all independent directors; reviewing and approving all of our executive officers’ compensation, as well as compensation for non-management directors; and reviewing certain other human capital management topics.

Management Committees

Management committees may receive their authority from the Board, a Board committee, another management committee or from one or more executive officers. Our primary management-level risk committee is the Management Risk Committee (MRC). Subject to Board oversight, the MRC is responsible for management oversight of key risks facing the Corporation. This includes providing management oversight of our compliance and operational risk programs, balance sheet and capital management, funding activities and other liquidity activities, stress testing, trading activities, recovery and resolution planning, model risk, subsidiary governance and activities between member banks and their nonbank affiliates pursuant to Federal Reserve rules and regulations, among other things.

Lines of Defense

We have clear ownership and accountability across three lines of defense: Front Line Units (FLUs), IRM and Corporate Audit. We also have control functions outside of FLUs and IRM (e.g., Legal and Global Human Resources). The three lines of defense are integrated into our management-level governance structure. Each of these functional roles is described in more detail below.

43 Bank of America

Executive Officers

Executive officers lead various functions representing the functional roles. Authority for functional roles may be delegated to executive officers from the Board, Board committees or management-level committees. Executive officers, in turn, may further delegate responsibilities, as appropriate, to management-level committees, management routines or individuals. Executive officers review our activities for consistency with our Risk Framework, Risk Appetite Statement and applicable strategic, capital and financial operating plans, as well as applicable policies, standards, procedures and processes. Executive officers and other employees make decisions individually on a day-to-day basis, consistent with the authority they have been delegated. Executive officers and other employees may also serve on committees and participate in committee decisions.

Front Line Units

FLUs, which include the lines of business as well as the Global Technology and Operations Group, are responsible for appropriately assessing and effectively managing all of the risks associated with their activities. 

Three organizational units that include FLU activities and control function activities, but are not part of IRM are first, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Group; second, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG), Capital Deployment (CD) and Public Policy (PP); and third, the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) Group.

Independent Risk Management

IRM is part of our control functions and includes Global Risk Management. We have other control functions that are not part of IRM (other control functions may also provide oversight to FLU activities), including Legal, Global Human Resources and certain activities within the CFO Group; ESG, CD and PP; and CAO Group. IRM, led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), is responsible for independently assessing and overseeing risks within FLUs and other control functions. IRM establishes written enterprise policies and procedures that include concentration risk limits, where appropriate. Such policies and procedures outline how aggregate risks are identified, measured, monitored and controlled.

The CRO has the stature, authority and independence to develop and implement a meaningful risk management framework. The CRO has unrestricted access to the Board and reports directly to both the ERC and to the CEO. Global Risk Management is organized into horizontal risk teams that cover a specific risk area and vertical CRO teams that cover a particular front line unit or control function. These teams work collaboratively in executing their respective duties.

Corporate Audit

Corporate Audit and the CAE maintain their independence from the FLUs, IRM and other control functions by reporting directly to the Audit Committee or the Board. The CAE administratively reports to the CEO. Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key processes and controls across the Corporation. Corporate Audit includes Credit Review which periodically tests and examines credit portfolios and processes.

Risk Management Processes

The Risk Framework requires that strong risk management practices are integrated in key strategic, capital and financial planning processes and in day-to-day business processes across the Corporation, with a goal of ensuring risks are appropriately considered, evaluated and responded to in a timely manner.

We employ our risk management process, referred to as Identify, Measure, Monitor and Control, as part of our daily activities.

Identify – To be effectively managed, risks must be clearly defined and proactively identified. Proper risk identification focuses on recognizing and understanding key risks inherent in our business activities or key risks that may arise from external factors. Each employee is expected to identify and escalate risks promptly. Risk identification is an ongoing process, incorporating input from FLUs and control functions, designed to be forward looking and capture relevant risk factors across all of our lines of business. 

Measure – Once a risk is identified, it must be prioritized and accurately measured through a systematic risk quantification process including quantitative and qualitative components. Risk is measured at various levels including, but not limited to, risk type, FLU, legal entity and on an aggregate basis. This risk quantification process helps to capture changes in our risk profile due to changes in strategic direction, concentrations, portfolio quality and the overall economic environment. Senior management considers how risk exposures might evolve under a variety of stress scenarios. 

Monitor – We monitor risk levels regularly to track adherence to risk appetite, policies, standards, procedures and processes. We also regularly update risk assessments and review risk exposures. Through our monitoring, we can determine our level of risk relative to limits and can take action in a timely manner. We also can determine when risk limits are breached and have processes to appropriately report and escalate exceptions. This includes requests for approval to managers and alerts to executive management, management-level committees or the Board (directly or through an appropriate committee).

Control – We establish and communicate risk limits and controls through policies, standards, procedures and processes that define the responsibilities and authority for risk-taking. The limits and controls can be adjusted by the Board or management when conditions or risk tolerances warrant. These limits may be absolute (e.g., loan amount, trading volume) or relative (e.g., percentage of loan book in higher-risk categories). Our lines of business are held accountable to perform within the established limits.

The formal processes used to manage risk represent a part of our overall risk management process. We instill a strong and comprehensive culture of managing risk well through communications, training, policies, procedures and organizational roles and responsibilities. Establishing a culture reflective of our purpose to help make our customers’ financial lives better and delivering our responsible growth strategy is also critical to effective risk management. We understand that improper actions, behaviors or practices that are illegal, unethical or contrary to our core values could result in harm to the Corporation, our shareholders or our customers, damage the integrity of the financial markets, or negatively impact our reputation, and have established protocols and structures so that such conduct risk is governed and reported across the Corporation. Specifically, our Code of Conduct provides a framework for all of our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. Additionally, we continue to strengthen the link between the employee performance management process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward enterprise-wide risk goals.

  Bank of America  44

Corporation-wide Stress Testing

Integral to our Capital Planning, Financial Planning and Strategic Planning processes, we conduct capital scenario management and stress forecasting on a periodic basis to better understand balance sheet, earnings and capital sensitivities to certain economic and business scenarios, including economic and market conditions that are more severe than anticipated. These stress forecasts provide an understanding of the potential impacts from our risk profile on the balance sheet, earnings and capital, and serve as a key component of our capital and risk management practices. The intent of stress testing is to develop a comprehensive understanding of potential impacts of on- and off-balance sheet risks at the Corporation and how they impact financial resiliency, which provides confidence to management, regulators and our investors. 

Contingency Planning

We have developed and maintain contingency plans that are designed to prepare us in advance to respond in the event of potential adverse economic, financial or market stress. These contingency plans include our Capital Contingency Plan and Financial Contingency and Recovery Plan, which provide monitoring, escalation, actions and routines designed to enable us to increase capital, access funding sources and reduce risk through consideration of potential options that include asset sales, business sales, capital or debt issuances, or other de-risking strategies. We also maintain a Resolution Plan to limit adverse systemic impacts that could be associated with a potential resolution of Bank of America.

Strategic Risk Management

Strategic risk is embedded in every business and is one of the major risk categories along with credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks. This risk results from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments, in the geographic locations in which we operate, such as competitor actions, changing customer preferences, product obsolescence and technology developments. Our strategic plan is consistent with our risk appetite, capital plan and liquidity requirements, and specifically addresses strategic risks.

On an annual basis, the Board reviews and approves the strategic plan, capital plan, financial operating plan and Risk Appetite Statement. With oversight by the Board, executive management directs the lines of business to execute our strategic plan consistent with our core operating principles and risk appetite. The executive management team monitors business performance throughout the year and provides the Board with regular progress reports on whether strategic objectives and timelines are being met, including reports on strategic risks and if additional or alternative actions need to be considered or implemented. The regular executive reviews focus on assessing forecasted earnings and returns on capital, the current risk profile, current capital and liquidity requirements, staffing levels and changes required to support the strategic plan, stress testing results, and other qualitative factors such as market growth rates and peer analysis.

Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material acquisitions or divestitures, and resolution plans are reviewed and approved by the Board. At the business level, processes are in place to discuss the strategic risk implications of new, expanded or modified businesses, products or services and other strategic initiatives, and to provide formal review and approval where required. With oversight by the Board and the ERC, executive 

management performs similar analyses throughout the year, and evaluates changes to the financial forecast or the risk, capital or liquidity positions as deemed appropriate to balance and optimize achieving the targeted risk appetite, shareholder returns and maintaining the targeted financial strength. Proprietary models are used to measure the capital requirements for credit, country, market, operational and strategic risks. The allocated capital assigned to each business is based on its unique risk profile. With oversight by the Board, executive management assesses the risk-adjusted returns of each business in approving strategic and financial operating plans. The businesses use allocated capital to define business strategies, and price products and transactions.

Capital Management

The Corporation manages its capital position so that its capital is more than adequate to support its business activities and aligns with risk, risk appetite and strategic planning. Additionally, we seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times, even under adverse scenarios, take advantage of organic growth opportunities, meet obligations to creditors and counterparties, maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as a credit intermediary, remain a source of strength for our subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital requirements. Capital management is integrated into our risk and governance processes, as capital is a key consideration in the development of our strategic plan, risk appetite and risk limits.

We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) on a periodic basis. The ICAAP is a forward-looking assessment of our projected capital needs and resources, incorporating earnings, balance sheet and risk forecasts under baseline and adverse economic and market conditions. We utilize periodic stress tests to assess the potential impacts to our balance sheet, earnings, regulatory capital and liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We perform qualitative risk assessments to identify and assess material risks not fully captured in our forecasts or stress tests. We assess the potential capital impacts of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements. Management assesses ICAAP results and provides documented quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our capital guidelines and capital position to the Board or its committees. 

We periodically review capital allocated to our businesses and allocate capital annually during the strategic and capital planning processes. For more information, see Business Segment Operations on page 32. 

CCAR and Capital Planning

The Federal Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and requests for capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with the rules governing the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) capital plan.

On June 27, 2019, following the Federal Reserve’s non-objection to our 2019 CCAR capital plan, the Board authorized the repurchase of approximately $30.9 billion in common stock from July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020, which includes approximately $900 million to offset shares awarded under equity-based compensation plans during the same period. During 2019, pursuant to the Board’s authorizations, including those related to our 2018 CCAR capital plan that expired June 30, 2019, we repurchased $28.1 billion of common stock, which includes common stock repurchases to offset equity-based compensation awards. At December 31, 2019, our remaining stock repurchase authorization was $15.6 billion.

Our stock repurchases are subject to various factors, including the Corporation’s capital position, liquidity, financial performance and alternative uses of capital, stock trading price and general 

45 Bank of America

market conditions, and may be suspended at any time. The repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including repurchase plans that satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act).

Regulatory Capital

As a financial services holding company, we are subject to regulatory capital rules, including Basel 3, issued by U.S. banking regulators. Basel 3 established minimum capital ratios and buffer requirements and outlined two methods of calculating risk-weighted assets, the Standardized approach and the Advanced approaches. The Standardized approach relies primarily on supervisory risk weights based on exposure type, and the Advanced approaches determine risk weights based on internal models. 

The Corporation's depository institution subsidiaries are also subject to the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. The Corporation and its primary affiliated banking entity, BANA, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3 and are required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy including under the PCA framework. As of December 31, 2019, the Common equity tier 1 (CET1) and Tier 1 capital ratios for the Corporation were lower under the Standardized approach whereas the Advanced approaches yielded a lower Total capital ratio.

Minimum Capital Requirements

Minimum capital requirements and related buffers were fully phased in as of January 1, 2019. The PCA framework established categories of capitalization, including well capitalized, based on 

the Basel 3 regulatory ratio requirements. U.S. banking regulators are required to take certain mandatory actions depending on the category of capitalization, with no mandatory actions required for well-capitalized banking organizations.

In order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments, the Corporation must meet risk-based capital ratio requirements that include a capital conservation buffer greater than 2.5 percent, plus any applicable countercyclical capital buffer and a global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge. The buffers and surcharge must be comprised solely of CET1 capital.

The Corporation is also required to maintain a minimum supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 3.0 percent plus a leverage buffer of 2.0 percent in order to avoid certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. Our insured depository institution subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum 6.0 percent SLR to be considered well capitalized under the PCA framework. The numerator of the SLR is quarter-end Basel 3 Tier 1 capital. The denominator is total leverage exposure based on the daily average of the sum of on-balance sheet exposures less permitted Tier 1 deductions, as well as the simple average of certain off-balance sheet exposures, as of the end of each month in a quarter.

Capital Composition and Ratios

Table 11 presents Bank of America Corporation’s capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2019 and 2018. As of the periods presented herein, the Corporation met the definition of well capitalized under current regulatory requirements.

  Bank of America  46

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.

(3) Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.

At December 31, 2019, CET1 capital and Total capital under the Advanced approaches were relatively unchanged compared to December 31, 2018. Risk-weighted assets under the Standardized approach, which yielded the lower CET1 capital ratio at December 31, 2019, increased $56.3 billion during 2019 to $1,493 billion 

primarily due to loan growth and increased client activity in Global Markets and Global Banking.

Table 12 shows the capital composition at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

47 Bank of America

Table 13 shows the components of risk-weighted assets as measured under Basel 3 at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/a = not applicable

Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital

Table 14 presents regulatory capital information for BANA in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at December 31, 2019 and 2018. BANA met the definition of well capitalized under the PCA framework at both year ends.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses.

(3) Reflects total average assets adjusted for certain Tier 1 capital deductions.

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity Requirements

Effective January 1, 2019, the Corporation is subject to the Federal Reserve’s final rule requiring G-SIBs to maintain minimum levels of total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) and long-term debt. TLAC consists of the Corporation’s Tier 1 capital and eligible long-term debt issued directly by the Corporation. Eligible long-term debt for TLAC ratios is comprised of unsecured debt that has a remaining 

maturity of at least one year and satisfies additional requirements as prescribed in the TLAC final rule. As with the risk-based capital ratios and SLR, the Corporation is required to maintain TLAC ratios in excess of minimum requirements plus applicable buffers to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. Table 15 presents the Corporation's TLAC and long-term debt ratios and related information as of December 31, 2019.

  Bank of America  48

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The TLAC risk-weighted assets regulatory minimum consists of 18.0 percent plus a TLAC risk-weighted assets buffer comprised of 2.5 percent plus the method 1 G-SIB surcharge of 1.5 percent. The countercyclical buffer is zero for this period. The TLAC SLR leverage exposure regulatory minimum consists of 7.5 percent plus a 2.0 percent TLAC leverage buffer. The TLAC risk-weighted assets and leverage buffers must be comprised solely of CET1 capital and Tier 1 capital, respectively.

(2) The long-term debt risk-weighted assets regulatory minimum is comprised of 6.0 percent plus an additional 2.5 percent requirement based on the Corporation’s method 2 G-SIB surcharge. The long-term debt leverage exposure regulatory minimum is 4.5 percent.

(3) The approach that yields the higher risk-weighted assets is used to calculate TLAC and long-term debt ratios, which was the Standardized approach as of December 31, 2019.

Regulatory Capital and Securities Regulation 

The Corporation’s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are BofA Securities, Inc. (BofAS), Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp. (MLPCC) and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S). BofAS was formed as a result of the reorganization of MLPF&S which was completed in May 2019. The Corporation's principal European broker-dealer subsidiaries are Merrill Lynch International (MLI) and BofA Securities Europe SA (BofASE). 

The U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the net capital requirements of Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act. BofAS computes its minimum capital requirements as an alternative net capital broker-dealer under Rule 15c3-1, and MLPCC and MLPF&S compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with the alternative standard under Rule 15c3-1. BofAS and MLPCC are also registered as futures commission merchants and are subject to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Regulation 1.17.

BofAS provides institutional services, and in accordance with the alternative net capital requirements, is required to maintain tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion and net capital in excess of the greater of $500 million or a certain percentage of its reserve requirement. BofAS must also notify the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the event its tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion. BofAS is also required to hold a certain percentage of its risk-based margin in order to meet its CFTC minimum net capital requirement. At December 31, 2019, BofAS had tentative net capital of $12.5 billion. BofAS also had regulatory net capital of $10.4 billion which exceeded the minimum requirement of $2.4 billion. 

MLPCC is a fully-guaranteed subsidiary of BofAS and provides clearing and settlement services. At December 31, 2019, MLPCC’s regulatory net capital of $5.3 billion exceeded the minimum requirement of $1.3 billion.

MLPF&S provides retail services. At December 31, 2019, MLPF&S' regulatory net capital was $4.1 billion which exceeded the minimum requirement of $102 million.

Our European broker-dealers are regulated by non-U.S. regulators. MLI, a U.K. investment firm, is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the FCA and is subject to certain regulatory capital requirements. At December 31, 2019, MLI’s capital resources were $34.8 billion, which exceeded the minimum Pillar 1 requirement of $13.9 billion. BofASE, a French investment firm, is regulated by the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution and the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, and is subject to certain regulatory capital requirements. At December 31, 2019, BofASE's capital resources were $5.5 billion which exceeded the minimum Pillar 1 requirement of $1.3 billion.

Regulatory Developments

Revisions to Basel 3 to Address Current Expected Credit Loss Accounting

On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new accounting standard that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the Corporation's relevant financial assets. For more information, see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our adoption of the standard resulted in a decrease to the CET1 capital ratio of 17 bps, which will be phased in evenly, or approximately four bps per year, at the beginning of each year from January 1, 2020 through January 1, 2023 in accordance with transition provisions issued by the U.S. banking regulators.

Security-Based Swap Dealer Capital, Margin and Segregation Requirements

On June 21, 2019, the SEC published a final rule establishing capital, margin and segregation requirements for security-based swap dealers (SBSDs). The final rule increases the minimum net capital requirements for broker-dealers authorized to use internal models to compute alternative net capital (ANC broker-dealers). For ANC broker-dealers, the minimum tentative net capital requirement increased from $1.0 billion to $5.0 billion, and the net capital requirement was raised to the greater of $1.0 billion or two percent of the applicable risk-margin amount (initial margin maintained for cleared and non-cleared security-based swaps) plus two percent of certain customer-related assets. For stand-alone SBSDs that use models to calculate haircuts, the minimum tentative net capital requirement is $100 million and the minimum net capital requirement is the greater of $20 million or two percent of the risk-margin amount.

Capital Requirements for Swap Dealers

On December 10, 2019, the CFTC re-opened the comment period on its 2016 proposal to establish capital requirements for swap dealers and major swap participants that are not subject to existing U.S. prudential regulation. Under the proposal, applicable subsidiaries of the Corporation would be permitted to elect one of two approaches to compute their regulatory capital. The first approach is a bank-based capital approach which requires that firms maintain CET1 capital greater than or equal to the larger of 8.0 percent of the entity’s RWA as calculated under Basel 3, or 8.0 percent of the margin of the entity’s cleared and uncleared swaps, security-based swaps, futures and foreign futures positions. The second approach is based on net liquid assets and requires that a firm maintain net capital greater than or equal to 8.0 percent of the margin as described above. The proposal also includes liquidity and reporting requirements.

49 Bank of America

Single-Counterparty Credit Limits

The Federal Reserve established single-counterparty credit limits (SCCL) for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more. The SCCL rule is designed to ensure that the maximum possible loss that a BHC could incur due to the default of a single counterparty or a group of connected counterparties would not endanger the BHC’s survival, thereby reducing the probability of future financial crises. Beginning January 1, 2020, G-SIBs must calculate SCCL on a daily basis by dividing the aggregate net credit exposure to a given counterparty by the G-SIB’s Tier 1 capital, ensuring that exposures to other G-SIBs and nonbank financial institutions regulated by the Federal Reserve do not breach 15 percent of Tier 1 capital and exposures to most other counterparties do not breach 25 percent of Tier 1 capital. Certain exposures, including exposures to the U.S. government, U.S. government-sponsored entities and qualifying central counterparties, are exempt from the credit limits.

Liquidity Risk

Funding and Liquidity Risk Management

Our primary liquidity risk management objective is to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our businesses and customers under a range of economic conditions. To achieve that objective, we analyze and monitor our liquidity risk under expected and stressed conditions, maintain liquidity and access to diverse funding sources, including our stable deposit base, and seek to align liquidity-related incentives and risks.

We define liquidity as readily available assets, limited to cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities that we can use to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as those obligations arise. We manage our liquidity position through line of business and ALM activities, as well as through our legal entity funding strategy, on both a forward and current (including intraday) basis under both expected and stressed conditions. We believe that a centralized approach to funding and liquidity management enhances our ability to monitor liquidity requirements, maximizes access to funding sources, minimizes borrowing costs and facilitates timely responses to liquidity events.

The Board approves our liquidity risk policy and the Financial Contingency and Recovery Plan. The ERC establishes our liquidity risk tolerance levels. The MRC is responsible for overseeing liquidity risks and directing management to maintain exposures within the established tolerance levels. The MRC reviews and monitors our liquidity position and stress testing results, approves certain liquidity risk limits and reviews the impact of strategic decisions on our liquidity. For more information, see Managing Risk on page 42. Under this governance framework, we have developed certain funding and liquidity risk management practices which include: maintaining liquidity at the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including our bank subsidiaries and other regulated entities; determining what amounts of liquidity are appropriate for these entities based on analysis of debt maturities and other potential cash outflows, including those that we may experience during stressed market conditions; diversifying funding sources, considering our asset profile and legal entity structure; and performing contingency planning.

NB Holdings Corporation

We have intercompany arrangements with certain key subsidiaries under which we transferred certain assets of Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company, which is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries, 

and agreed to transfer certain additional parent company assets not needed to satisfy anticipated near-term expenditures, to NB Holdings Corporation, a wholly-owned holding company subsidiary (NB Holdings). The parent company is expected to continue to have access to the same flow of dividends, interest and other amounts of cash necessary to service its debt, pay dividends and perform other obligations as it would have had if it had not entered into these arrangements and transferred any assets. 

In consideration for the transfer of assets, NB Holdings issued a subordinated note to the parent company in a principal amount equal to the value of the transferred assets. The aggregate principal amount of the note will increase by the amount of any future asset transfers. NB Holdings also provided the parent company with a committed line of credit that allows the parent company to draw funds necessary to service near-term cash needs. These arrangements support our preferred single point of entry resolution strategy, under which only the parent company would be resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. These arrangements include provisions to terminate the line of credit, forgive the subordinated note and require the parent company to transfer its remaining financial assets to NB Holdings if our projected liquidity resources deteriorate so severely that resolution of the parent company becomes imminent.

Global Liquidity Sources and Other Unencumbered Assets

We maintain liquidity available to the Corporation, including the parent company and selected subsidiaries, in the form of cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities. Our liquidity buffer, referred to as Global Liquidity Sources (GLS), is comprised of assets that are readily available to the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including holding company, bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, even during stressed market conditions. Our cash is primarily on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank and, to a lesser extent, central banks outside of the U.S. We limit the composition of high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities to U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency MBS and a select group of non-U.S. government securities. We can quickly obtain cash for these securities, even in stressed conditions, through repurchase agreements or outright sales. We hold our GLS in legal entities that allow us to meet the liquidity requirements of our global businesses, and we consider the impact of potential regulatory, tax, legal and other restrictions that could limit the transferability of funds among entities.

Table 16 presents average GLS for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Typically, parent company and NB Holdings liquidity is in the form of cash deposited with BANA.

Our bank subsidiaries’ liquidity is primarily driven by deposit and lending activity, as well as securities valuation and net debt activity. Liquidity at bank subsidiaries excludes the cash deposited by the parent company and NB Holdings. Our bank subsidiaries can also generate incremental liquidity by pledging a range of unencumbered loans and securities to certain FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The cash we could have 

  Bank of America  50

obtained by borrowing against this pool of specifically-identified eligible assets was $372 billion and $344 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. We have established operational procedures to enable us to borrow against these assets, including regularly monitoring our total pool of eligible loans and securities collateral. Eligibility is defined in guidelines from the FHLBs and the Federal Reserve and is subject to change at their discretion. Due to regulatory restrictions, liquidity generated by the bank subsidiaries can generally be used only to fund obligations within the bank subsidiaries, and transfers to the parent company or nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to prior regulatory approval.

Liquidity held in other regulated entities, comprised primarily of broker-dealer subsidiaries, is primarily available to meet the obligations of that entity and transfers to the parent company or to any other subsidiary may be subject to prior regulatory approval due to regulatory restrictions and minimum requirements. Our other regulated entities also hold unencumbered investment-grade securities and equities that we believe could be used to generate additional liquidity.

Table 17 presents the composition of average GLS for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our GLS are substantially the same in composition to what qualifies as High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) under the final U.S. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) rules. However, HQLA for purposes of calculating LCR is not reported at market value, but at a lower value that incorporates regulatory deductions and the exclusion of excess liquidity held at certain subsidiaries. The LCR is calculated as the amount of a financial institution’s unencumbered HQLA relative to the estimated net cash outflows the institution could encounter over a 30-day period of significant liquidity stress, expressed as a percentage. Our average consolidated HQLA, on a net basis, was $464 billion and $446 billion for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. For the same periods, the average consolidated LCR was 116 percent and 118 percent. Our LCR fluctuates due to normal business flows from customer activity.

Liquidity Stress Analysis

We utilize liquidity stress analysis to assist us in determining the appropriate amounts of liquidity to maintain at the parent company and our subsidiaries to meet contractual and contingent cash outflows under a range of scenarios. The scenarios we consider and utilize incorporate market-wide and Corporation-specific events, including potential credit rating downgrades for the parent company and our subsidiaries, and more severe events including potential resolution scenarios. The scenarios are based on our historical experience, experience of distressed and failed financial institutions, regulatory guidance, and both expected and unexpected future events.

The types of potential contractual and contingent cash outflows we consider in our scenarios may include, but are not limited to, upcoming contractual maturities of unsecured debt and reductions in new debt issuance; diminished access to secured financing 

markets; potential deposit withdrawals; increased draws on loan commitments, liquidity facilities and letters of credit; additional collateral that counterparties could call if our credit ratings were downgraded; collateral and margin requirements arising from market value changes; and potential liquidity required to maintain businesses and finance customer activities. Changes in certain market factors, including, but not limited to, credit rating downgrades, could negatively impact potential contractual and contingent outflows and the related financial instruments, and in some cases these impacts could be material to our financial results.

We consider all sources of funds that we could access during each stress scenario and focus particularly on matching available sources with corresponding liquidity requirements by legal entity. We also use the stress modeling results to manage our asset and liability profile and establish limits and guidelines on certain funding sources and businesses.

Net Stable Funding Ratio

U.S. banking regulators issued a proposal for a Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) requirement applicable to U.S. financial institutions following the Basel Committee’s final standard. The proposed U.S. NSFR would apply to the Corporation on a consolidated basis and to our insured depository institutions. While the final requirement remains pending and is subject to change, if finalized as proposed, we expect to be in compliance within the regulatory timeline. The standard is intended to reduce funding risk over a longer time horizon. The NSFR is designed to provide an appropriate amount of stable funding, generally capital and liabilities maturing beyond one year, given the mix of assets and off-balance sheet items.

Diversified Funding Sources

We fund our assets primarily with a mix of deposits, and secured and unsecured liabilities through a centralized, globally coordinated funding approach diversified across products, programs, markets, currencies and investor groups. 

The primary benefits of our centralized funding approach include greater control, reduced funding costs, wider name recognition by investors and greater flexibility to meet the variable funding requirements of subsidiaries. Where regulations, time zone differences or other business considerations make parent company funding impractical, certain other subsidiaries may issue their own debt.

We fund a substantial portion of our lending activities through our deposits, which were $1.43 trillion and $1.38 trillion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Deposits are primarily generated by our Consumer Banking, GWIM and Global Banking segments. These deposits are diversified by clients, product type and geography, and the majority of our U.S. deposits are insured by the FDIC. We consider a substantial portion of our deposits to be a stable, low-cost and consistent source of funding. We believe this deposit funding is generally less sensitive to interest rate changes, market volatility or changes in our credit ratings than wholesale funding sources. Our lending activities may also be financed through secured borrowings, including credit card securitizations and securitizations with government-sponsored enterprises (GSE), the FHA and private-label investors, as well as FHLB loans.

Our trading activities in other regulated entities are primarily funded on a secured basis through securities lending and repurchase agreements, and these amounts will vary based on customer activity and market conditions. We believe funding these activities in the secured financing markets is more cost-efficient and less sensitive to changes in our credit ratings than unsecured financing. Repurchase agreements are generally short-term and 

51 Bank of America

often overnight. Disruptions in secured financing markets for financial institutions have occurred in prior market cycles which resulted in adverse changes in terms or significant reductions in the availability of such financing. We manage the liquidity risks arising from secured funding by sourcing funding globally from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a range of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations, when appropriate. For more information on secured financing agreements, see Note 11 – Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements, Short-term Borrowings and Restricted Cash to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We issue long-term unsecured debt in a variety of maturities and currencies to achieve cost-efficient funding and to maintain an appropriate maturity profile. While the cost and availability of unsecured funding may be negatively impacted by general market conditions or by matters specific to the financial services industry or the Corporation, we seek to mitigate refinancing risk by actively managing the amount of our borrowings that we anticipate will mature within any month or quarter.

Table 18 presents our long-term debt by major currency at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total long-term debt increased $11.5 billion during 2019, primarily due to debt issuances and valuation adjustments, partially offset by maturities and redemptions. We may, from time to time, purchase outstanding debt instruments in various transactions, depending on market conditions, liquidity and other factors. Our other regulated entities may also make markets in our debt instruments to provide liquidity for investors.

During 2019, the Corporation issued $52.5 billion of long-term debt consisting of $29.3 billion of notes issued by Bank of America Corporation, substantially all of which was TLAC compliant, $10.9 billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. and $12.3 billion of other debt, substantially all of which was structured liabilities. During 2018, the Corporation issued $64.4 billion of long-term debt consisting of $30.7 billion of notes issued by Bank of America Corporation, substantially all of which was TLAC compliant, $18.7 billion of notes issued by Bank of America, N.A. and $15.0 billion of other debt, substantially all of which was structured liabilities.

During 2019, the Corporation had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $50.6 billion consisting of $21.1 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $19.9 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $9.6 billion of other debt. During 2018, the Corporation had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of $53.3 billion consisting of $29.8 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $11.2 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $12.3 billion of other debt.

At December 31, 2019, Bank of America Corporation's senior notes of $159.8 billion included $107.7 billion of outstanding notes that are both TLAC eligible and callable at least one year before their stated maturities. Of these senior notes, $7.4 billion will be callable and become TLAC ineligible during 2020, and $11.7 

billion, $14.8 billion, $10.7 billion and $9.2 billion will do so during each of 2021 through 2024, respectively, and $53.9 billion thereafter.

We use derivative transactions to manage the duration, interest rate and currency risks of our borrowings, considering the characteristics of the assets they are funding. For more information on our ALM activities, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.

We may issue unsecured debt in the form of structured notes for client purposes, certain of which qualify as TLAC-eligible debt. During 2019, we issued $9.6 billion of structured notes, which are debt obligations that pay investors returns linked to other debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. We typically hedge the returns we are obligated to pay on these liabilities with derivatives and/or investments in the underlying instruments, so that from a funding perspective, the cost is similar to our other unsecured long-term debt. We could be required to settle certain structured note obligations for cash or other securities prior to maturity under certain circumstances, which we consider for liquidity planning purposes. We believe, however, that a portion of such borrowings will remain outstanding beyond the earliest put or redemption date.

Substantially all of our senior and subordinated debt obligations contain no provisions that could trigger a requirement for an early repayment, require additional collateral support, result in changes to terms, accelerate maturity or create additional financial obligations upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price. For more information on long-term debt funding, including issuances and maturities and redemptions, see Note 12 – Long-term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Contingency Planning

We maintain contingency funding plans that outline our potential responses to liquidity stress events at various levels of severity. These policies and plans are based on stress scenarios and include potential funding strategies and communication and notification procedures that we would implement in the event we experienced stressed liquidity conditions. We periodically review and test the contingency funding plans to validate efficacy and assess readiness.

Our U.S. bank subsidiaries can access contingency funding through the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Certain non-U.S. subsidiaries have access to central bank facilities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. While we do not rely on these sources in our liquidity modeling, we maintain the policies, procedures and governance processes that would enable us to access these sources if necessary.

Credit Ratings

Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Thus, it is our objective to maintain high-quality credit ratings, and management maintains an active dialogue with the major rating agencies.

Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies, and they consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control. The rating 

  Bank of America  52

agencies could make adjustments to our ratings at any time, and they provide no assurances that they will maintain our ratings at current levels.

Other factors that influence our credit ratings include changes to the rating agencies’ methodologies for our industry or certain security types; the rating agencies’ assessment of the general operating environment for financial services companies; our relative positions in the markets in which we compete; our various risk exposures and risk management policies and activities; pending litigation and other contingencies or potential tail risks; our reputation; our liquidity position, diversity of funding sources and funding costs; the current and expected level and volatility of our earnings; our capital position and capital management practices; our corporate governance; the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government; current or future regulatory and legislative initiatives; and the agencies’ views on whether the U.S. government would provide meaningful support to the Corporation or its subsidiaries in a crisis.

On June 12, 2019, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) completed its periodic review of the 12 large, complex securities trading and universal banks, including Bank of America Corporation. The agency affirmed the long-term and short-term senior debt ratings of the Corporation and all of its rated subsidiaries, except Bank of America Merrill 

Lynch International Designated Activity Company, which Fitch upgraded by one notch to AA-/F1+. The rating outlook for all long-term ratings is currently stable.

On March 6, 2019, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) upgraded the long-term and short-term ratings of the Corporation by one notch to A2/P-1 from A3/P-2 for senior debt, as well as the long-term ratings of its rated subsidiaries, including BANA, which the agency upgraded to Aa2 from Aa3 for senior debt. Moody’s concurrently affirmed the short-term ratings of the Corporation’s rated subsidiaries, including BANA. Moody’s cited the Corporation’s strengthening profitability, continued adherence to a conservative risk profile and stable capital ratios as rationale for the upgrade. The rating outlook for all long-term ratings is currently stable.

The ratings from Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings (S&P) for the Corporation and its subsidiaries did not change during 2019. The long-term and short-term debt ratings of BofAS and BofASE, which were initially rated by S&P during the first quarter 2019, also remained unchanged during the rest of 2019.

Table 19 presents the Corporation’s current long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks expressed by the rating agencies.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NR = not rated

A reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the ratings of certain asset-backed securitizations may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, potential loss of access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and on certain revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. In addition, under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the event of downgrades of our or our rated subsidiaries’ credit ratings, the counterparties to those agreements may require us to provide additional collateral, or to terminate these contracts or agreements, which could cause us to sustain losses and/or adversely impact our liquidity. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries were downgraded by one or more levels, the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing and the effect on our incremental cost of funds could be material.

While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full scope of the consequences of a credit rating downgrade to a financial institution is inherently uncertain, as it depends upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a company’s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. For more information on potential impacts of credit rating downgrades, see Liquidity Risk – Liquidity Stress Analysis on page 51.

For more information on additional collateral and termination payments that could be required in connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements as a result of such a credit rating downgrade, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Common Stock Dividends

For a summary of our declared quarterly cash dividends on common stock during 2019 and through February 19, 2020, see Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Credit Risk Management

Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. Credit risk can also arise from operational failures that result in an erroneous advance, commitment or investment of funds. We define the credit exposure to a borrower or counterparty as the loss potential arising from all product classifications including loans and leases, deposit overdrafts, derivatives, assets held-for-sale and unfunded lending commitments which include loan commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees. Derivative positions are recorded at fair value and assets held-for-sale are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. Certain loans and unfunded commitments are accounted for under the fair value option. Credit risk for categories of assets carried at fair value is not accounted for as part of the allowance for credit losses but as part of the fair 

53 Bank of America

value adjustments recorded in earnings. For derivative positions, our credit risk is measured as the net cost in the event the counterparties with contracts in which we are in a gain position fail to perform under the terms of those contracts. We use the current fair value to represent credit exposure without giving consideration to future mark-to-market changes. The credit risk amounts take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral. Our consumer and commercial credit extension and review procedures encompass funded and unfunded credit exposures. For more information on derivatives and credit extension commitments, see Note 3 – Derivatives and Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower or counterparty, repayment sources, the nature of underlying collateral, and other support given current events, conditions and expectations. We classify our portfolios as either consumer or commercial and monitor credit risk in each as discussed below.

We refine our underwriting and credit risk management practices as well as credit standards to meet the changing economic environment. To mitigate losses and enhance customer support in our consumer businesses, we have in place collection programs and loan modification and customer assistance infrastructures. We utilize a number of actions to mitigate losses in the commercial businesses including increasing the frequency and intensity of portfolio monitoring, hedging activity and our practice of transferring management of deteriorating commercial exposures to independent special asset officers as credits enter criticized categories.

For more information on our credit risk management activities, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management below, Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management on page 60, Non-U.S. Portfolio on page 66, Provision for Credit Losses on page 68, Allowance for Credit Losses on page 68, and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases and Note 6 – Allowance for Credit Losses to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management

Credit risk management for the consumer portfolio begins with initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower’s credit cycle. Statistical techniques in conjunction with experiential judgment are used in all aspects of portfolio management including underwriting, product pricing, risk appetite, setting credit limits, and establishing operating processes and metrics to quantify and balance risks and returns. Statistical models are built using detailed behavioral information from external sources such as credit bureaus and/or internal historical experience and are a component of our consumer credit risk management process. These models are used in part to assist in making both new and ongoing credit decisions, as well as portfolio management strategies, including authorizations and line management, collection practices and strategies, and determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses and allocated capital for credit risk.

Consumer Credit Portfolio

Improvement in home prices continued during 2019 resulting in improved credit quality compared to 2018. Net recoveries in the consumer real estate portfolio due primarily to non-core loan sales were partially offset by seasoning in the credit card portfolio compared to 2018. 

Improved credit quality and continued loan balance runoff primarily in the non-core consumer real estate portfolio, partially offset by seasoning within the credit card portfolio, drove a $260 million decrease in the consumer allowance for loan and lease losses in 2019 to $4.5 billion. For more information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 68.

For more information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, charge-offs and troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) for the consumer portfolio, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Table 20 presents our outstanding consumer loans and leases, consumer nonperforming loans and accruing consumer loans past due 90 days or more. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/a = not applicable

  Bank of America  54

Table 21 presents net charge-offs and related ratios for consumer loans and leases.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.

n/m = not meaningful

Table 22 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances, net charge-offs, allowance for loan and lease losses and provision for loan and lease losses for the core and non-core portfolios within the consumer real estate portfolio. We categorize consumer real estate loans as core and non-core based on loan and customer characteristics such as origination date, product type, loan-to-value (LTV), Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) score and delinquency status consistent with our current consumer and mortgage servicing strategy. Generally, loans that were originated after January 1, 2010, qualified under GSE underwriting guidelines, or otherwise met our underwriting guidelines in place in 2015 are characterized 

as core loans. All other loans are generally characterized as non-core loans and represent runoff portfolios. Core loans as reported in Table 22 include loans held in the Consumer Banking and GWIM segments, as well as loans held for ALM activities in All Other. 

As shown in Table 22, outstanding core consumer real estate loans increased $27.3 billion during 2019 driven by an increase of $32.1 billion in residential mortgage, partially offset by a $4.8 billion decrease in home equity. 

During 2019, we sold $4.7 billion of consumer real estate loans, primarily non-core, compared to $11.6 billion in 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

55 Bank of America

We believe that the presentation of information adjusted to exclude the impact of the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option is more representative of the ongoing operations and credit quality of the business. As a result, in the following tables and discussions of the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios, we exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option and provide information that excludes the impact of the fully-insured loan portfolio in certain credit quality statistics.

Residential Mortgage

The residential mortgage portfolio made up the largest percentage of our consumer loan portfolio at 51 percent of consumer loans and leases at December 31, 2019. Approximately 50 percent of the residential mortgage portfolio was in Consumer Banking and 36 percent was in GWIM. The remaining portion was in All Other and was comprised of loans used in our overall ALM activities, 

delinquent FHA loans repurchased pursuant to our servicing agreements with the Government National Mortgage Association as well as loans repurchased related to our representations and warranties. 

Outstanding balances in the residential mortgage portfolio increased $27.6 billion in 2019 as retention of new originations was partially offset by loan sales of $2.7 billion and runoff. 

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the residential mortgage portfolio included $18.7 billion and $20.1 billion of outstanding fully-insured loans, of which $11.2 billion and $14.0 billion had FHA insurance with the remainder protected by long-term standby agreements. 

Table 23 presents certain residential mortgage key credit statistics on both a reported basis and excluding the fully-insured loan portfolio. The following discussion presents the residential mortgage portfolio excluding the fully-insured loan portfolio.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Nonperforming residential mortgage loans decreased $423 million in 2019 primarily driven by sales. Of the nonperforming residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2019, $616 million, or 42 percent, were current on contractual payments. Loans accruing past due 30 days or more increased $141 million. 

Net charge-offs improved $75 million to a net recovery of $47 million in 2019 compared to net charge-offs of $28 million in 2018 primarily due to recoveries from the sales of previously charged-off loans and continued improvement in credit quality. 

Of the $217.5 billion in total residential mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2019, as shown in Table 23, 26 percent were originated as interest-only loans. The outstanding balance of interest-only residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period was $7.4 billion, or 13 percent, at December 31, 2019. Residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period generally have experienced a higher rate of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status compared to the residential mortgage portfolio as a whole. At December 31, 2019, $124 million, or two percent, of outstanding interest-only residential mortgages that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more 

compared to $1.3 billion, or one percent, for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. In addition, at December 31, 2019, $260 million, or four percent, of outstanding interest-only residential mortgage loans that had entered the amortization period were nonperforming, of which $108 million were contractually current, compared to $1.5 billion, or one percent, for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization period in our interest-only residential mortgage portfolio are primarily well-collateralized loans to our wealth management clients and have an interest-only period of three to ten years. Approximately 94 percent of these loans that have yet to enter the amortization period will not be required to make a fully-amortizing payment until 2022 or later.

Table 24 presents outstandings, nonperforming loans and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the residential mortgage portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) within California represented 16 percent of outstandings at both December 31, 2019 and 2018. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 13 percent of outstandings at both December 31, 2019 and 2018. 

  Bank of America  56

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Home Equity 

At December 31, 2019, the home equity portfolio made up nine percent of the consumer portfolio and was comprised of home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), home equity loans and reverse mortgages. We no longer originate home equity loans or reverse mortgages.

At December 31, 2019, our HELOC portfolio had an outstanding balance of $37.5 billion, or 93 percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $44.3 billion, or 92 percent, at December 31, 2018. HELOCs generally have an initial draw period of 10 years, and after the initial draw period ends, the loans generally convert to 15- or 20-year amortizing loans.

At December 31, 2019, our home equity loan portfolio had an outstanding balance of $1.2 billion, or three percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $1.8 billion, or four percent, at December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2019, our reverse mortgage portfolio had an outstanding balance of $1.5 billion, or four percent of the total home equity portfolio, compared to $2.2 billion, also four percent, at December 31, 2018. 

At December 31, 2019, 80 percent of the home equity portfolio was in Consumer Banking, 12 percent was in All Other and the remainder of the portfolio was primarily in GWIM. Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio decreased $8.1 billion in 2019 primarily due to paydowns and loan sales of $2.0 billion outpacing new originations and draws on existing lines. Of the total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018, $15.0 billion, or 37 percent, and $17.3 billion, or 36 percent, were in first-lien positions. At December 31, 2019, outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio that were in a second-lien or more junior-lien position and where we also held the first-lien loan totaled $6.9 billion, or 17 percent of our total home equity portfolio.

Unused HELOCs totaled $43.6 billion and $43.1 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The increase was primarily driven by the impact of lower utilization of open lines and new production partially offset by customers choosing to close accounts. The HELOC utilization rate was 46 percent and 51 percent at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

Table 25 presents certain home equity portfolio key credit statistics. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of the portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Nonperforming outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio decreased $1.4 billion in 2019 as outflows, primarily sales, outpaced new inflows. Of the nonperforming home equity loans at December 31, 2019, $241 million, or 45 percent, were current on contractual payments. Nonperforming loans that are contractually current primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, junior-lien loans where the underlying first lien is 90 days or more past due, as well as loans that have not yet demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR. In addition, $162 million, or 30 percent, of nonperforming home equity loans were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the 

collateral, less costs to sell. Accruing loans that were 30 days or more past due decreased $145 million in 2019.

Net charge-offs decreased $356 million to a net recovery of $358 million in 2019 compared to a net recovery of $2 million in 2018 primarily driven by recoveries from the sales of previously charged off non-core home equity loans.

Of the $40.2 billion in total home equity portfolio outstandings at December 31, 2019, as shown in Table 25, 17 percent require interest-only payments. The outstanding balance of HELOCs that have reached the end of their draw period and have entered the amortization period was $11.5 billion at December 31, 2019. The HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies and 

57 Bank of America

nonperforming status when compared to the HELOC portfolio as a whole. At December 31, 2019, $149 million, or one percent, of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more. In addition, at December 31, 2019, $472 million, or four percent, were nonperforming. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization period in our interest-only portfolio are primarily post-2008 vintages and generally have better credit quality than the previous vintages that had entered the amortization period. We communicate to contractually current customers more than a year prior to the end of their draw period to inform them of the potential change to the payment structure before entering the amortization period, and provide payment options to customers prior to the end of the draw period.

Although we do not actively track how many of our home equity customers pay only the minimum amount due on their home equity 

loans and lines, we can infer some of this information through a review of our HELOC portfolio that we service and that is still in its revolving period. During 2019, 13 percent of these customers with an outstanding balance did not pay any principal on their HELOCs. 

Table 26 presents outstandings, nonperforming balances and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the home equity portfolio. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 13 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at both December 31, 2019 and 2018. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA within California made up 11 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at both December 31, 2019 and 2018. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Credit Card

At December 31, 2019, 97 percent of the credit card portfolio was managed in Consumer Banking with the remainder in GWIM. Outstandings in the credit card portfolio decreased $730 million in 2019 to $97.6 billion. In 2019, net charge-offs increased $111 million to $2.9 billion compared to net charge-offs of $2.8 billion in 2018. Credit card loans 30 days or more past due and still 

accruing interest increased $46 million and loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest increased $48 million. These increases were driven by portfolio seasoning.

Unused lines of credit for credit card increased to $336.9 billion at December 31, 2019 from $334.8 billion at December 31, 2018. 

Table 27 presents certain state concentrations for the credit card portfolio.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Direct/Indirect Consumer

At December 31, 2019, 56 percent of the direct/indirect portfolio was included in Consumer Banking (consumer auto and specialty lending – automotive, recreational vehicle, marine, aircraft and consumer personal loans) and 44 percent was included in GWIM (principally securities-based lending loans). 

Outstandings of $91.0 billion in the direct/indirect portfolio were relatively unchanged at December 31, 2019.

Table 28 presents certain state concentrations for the direct/indirect consumer loan portfolio.

  Bank of America  58

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity

Table 29 presents nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during 2019 and 2018. During 2019, nonperforming consumer loans decreased $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion primarily driven by loan sales of $1.5 billion.

At December 31, 2019, $606 million, or 29 percent, of nonperforming loans were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to their estimated property value less costs to sell. In addition, at December 31, 2019, $901 million, or 44 

percent, of nonperforming consumer loans were modified and are now current after successful trial periods, or are current loans classified as nonperforming loans in accordance with applicable policies.

Foreclosed properties decreased $15 million in 2019 to $229 million as liquidations outpaced additions. 

Nonperforming loans also include certain loans that have been modified in TDRs where economic concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Nonperforming TDRs are included in Table 29.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Consumer loans may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Outstanding consumer loans and leases exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

Table 30 presents TDRs for the consumer real estate portfolio. Performing TDR balances are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases in Table 29.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to modifying consumer real estate loans, we work with customers who are experiencing financial difficulty by modifying credit card and other consumer loans. Credit card and other consumer loan modifications generally involve a reduction 

in the customer’s interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months, all of which are considered TDRs (the renegotiated TDR portfolio).

59 Bank of America

Modifications of credit card and other consumer loans are made through renegotiation programs utilizing direct customer contact, but may also utilize external renegotiation programs. The renegotiated TDR portfolio is excluded in large part from Table 29 as substantially all of the loans remain on accrual status until either charged off or paid in full. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, our renegotiated TDR portfolio was $679 million and $566 million, of which $570 million and $481 million were current or less than 30 days past due under the modified terms. The increase in the renegotiated TDR portfolio was primarily driven by new renegotiated enrollments outpacing runoff of existing portfolios.

Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management

Credit risk management for the commercial portfolio begins with an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. As part of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and if necessary, adjusted to reflect changes in the financial condition, cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or counterparty. In making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral, country, industry and single-name concentration limits while also balancing these considerations with the total borrower or counterparty relationship. We use a variety of tools to continuously monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty to perform under its obligations. We use risk rating aggregations to measure and evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In addition, risk ratings are a factor in determining the level of allocated capital and the allowance for credit losses.

As part of our ongoing risk mitigation initiatives, we attempt to work with clients experiencing financial difficulty to modify their loans to terms that better align with their current ability to pay. In situations where an economic concession has been granted to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty, we identify these loans as TDRs. For more information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status and net charge-offs for the commercial portfolio, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Management of Commercial Credit Risk Concentrations

Commercial credit risk is evaluated and managed with the goal that concentrations of credit exposure continue to be aligned with our risk appetite. We review, measure and manage concentrations of credit exposure by industry, product, geography, customer relationship and loan size. We also review, measure and manage commercial real estate loans by geographic location and property type. In addition, within our non-U.S. portfolio, we evaluate exposures by region and by country. Tables 35, 38 and 41 summarize our concentrations. We also utilize syndications of 

exposure to third parties, loan sales, hedging and other risk mitigation techniques to manage the size and risk profile of the commercial credit portfolio. For more information on our industry concentrations, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Industry Concentrations on page 64 and Table 38.

We account for certain large corporate loans and loan commitments, including issued but unfunded letters of credit which are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes, that exceed our single-name credit risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored, and as appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with our credit view and market perspectives determining the size and timing of the hedging activity. In addition, we purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain other credit exposures. To lessen the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, credit exposure may be added within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection. These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements for treatment as accounting hedges. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income.

In addition, we are a member of various securities and derivative exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and other countries. As a member, we may be required to pay a pro-rata share of the losses incurred by some of these organizations as a result of another member default and under other loss scenarios. For more information, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commercial Credit Portfolio

During 2019, credit quality among large corporate and middle-market borrowers in our commercial and industrial portfolio remained strong. Credit quality of commercial real estate borrowers in most sectors remained stable with conservative LTV ratios. However, some of the real estate markets experienced slowing tenant demand and decelerating rental income.

Total commercial utilized credit exposure increased $14.3 billion in 2019 to $635.3 billion driven by higher loans and leases. The utilization rate for loans and leases, SBLCs and financial guarantees, and commercial letters of credit, in the aggregate, was 58 percent at December 31, 2019 and 59 percent at December 31, 2018.

Table 31 presents commercial credit exposure by type for utilized, unfunded and total binding committed credit exposure. Commercial utilized credit exposure includes SBLCs and financial guarantees and commercial letters of credit that have been issued and for which we are legally bound to advance funds under prescribed conditions during a specified time period, and excludes exposure related to trading account assets. Although funds have not yet been advanced, these exposure types are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes.

  Bank of America  60

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Excludes unused business card lines, which are not legally binding.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outstanding commercial loans and leases increased $18.0 billion during 2019 primarily in the commercial and industrial portfolio. Nonperforming commercial loans increased $397 million and commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure increased $391 million driven by a small number of client downgrades across industries which were not indicative of broader issues in the 

portfolio. The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio increased $75 million to $4.9 billion at December 31, 2019. For more information, see Allowance for Credit Losses on page 68. Table 32 presents our commercial loans and leases portfolio and related credit quality information at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes card-related products.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table 33 presents net charge-offs and related ratios for our commercial loans and leases for 2019 and 2018. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option.

61 Bank of America

Table 34 presents commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure by loan type. Criticized exposure corresponds to the Special Mention, Substandard and Doubtful asset categories as defined by regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, 90 percent and 91 percent of commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure was secured.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Percentages are calculated as commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure divided by total commercial reservable utilized exposure for each exposure category.

Commercial and Industrial

Commercial and industrial loans include U.S. commercial and non-U.S. commercial portfolios.

U.S. Commercial

At December 31, 2019, 70 percent of the U.S. commercial loan portfolio, excluding small business, was managed in Global Banking, 16 percent in Global Markets, 13 percent in GWIM (generally business-purpose loans for high net worth clients) and the remainder primarily in Consumer Banking. U.S. commercial loans increased $7.8 billion during 2019, across lines of business. 

Non-U.S. Commercial

At December 31, 2019, 83 percent of the non-U.S. commercial loan portfolio was managed in Global Banking and 17 percent in Global Markets. Non-U.S. commercial loans increased $6.2 billion during 2019, primarily in Global Banking. For information on the non-U.S. commercial portfolio, see Non-U.S. Portfolio on page 66.

Commercial Real Estate

Commercial real estate primarily includes commercial loans secured by non-owner-occupied real estate and is dependent on the sale or lease of the real estate as the primary source of 

repayment. Outstanding loans increased $1.8 billion, or three percent, during 2019 to $62.7 billion due to new originations slightly outpacing paydowns. The portfolio remains diversified across property types and geographic regions. California represented the largest state concentration at 24 percent and 23 percent of the commercial real estate portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The commercial real estate portfolio is predominantly managed in Global Banking and consists of loans made primarily to public and private developers, and commercial real estate firms.

During 2019, we continued to see low default rates and solid credit quality in both the residential and non-residential portfolios. We use a number of proactive risk mitigation initiatives to reduce adversely rated exposure in the commercial real estate portfolio, including transfers of deteriorating exposures to management by independent special asset officers and the pursuit of loan restructurings or asset sales to achieve the best results for our customers and the Corporation.

Table 35 presents outstanding commercial real estate loans by geographic region, based on the geographic location of the collateral, and by property type. 

  Bank of America  62

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes unsecured loans to real estate investment trusts and national home builders whose portfolios of properties span multiple geographic regions and properties in the states of Colorado, Utah, Hawaii, Wyoming and Montana.

U.S. Small Business Commercial

The U.S. small business commercial loan portfolio is comprised of small business card loans and small business loans managed in Consumer Banking. Credit card-related products were 52 percent and 51 percent of the U.S. small business commercial portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Of the U.S. small business commercial net charge-offs, 94 percent and 95 percent were credit card-related products in 2019 and 2018.

Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity

Table 36 presents the nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during 2019 and 2018. 

Nonperforming loans do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. During 2019, nonperforming commercial loans and leases increased $397 million to $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2019, 94 percent of commercial nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties were secured and 64 percent were contractually current. Commercial nonperforming loans were carried at 88 percent of their unpaid principal balance before consideration of the allowance for loan and lease losses as the carrying value of these loans has been reduced to the estimated collateral value less costs to sell.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Includes U.S. small business commercial activity. Small business card loans are excluded as they are not classified as nonperforming.

(3) Commercial loans and leases may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. TDRs are generally classified as performing after a sustained period of demonstrated payment performance.

(4) Outstanding commercial loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.

63 Bank of America

Table 37 presents our commercial TDRs by product type and performing status. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and small business loans. The renegotiated small business card loans are not classified as nonperforming as they are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. For more information on TDRs, see Note 5 – Outstanding Loans and Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Industry Concentrations 

Table 38 presents commercial committed and utilized credit exposure by industry and the total net credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portions of certain credit exposures. Our commercial credit exposure is diversified across a broad range of industries. Total commercial committed exposure increased $52.3 billion, or five percent, during 2019 to $1.1 trillion. The increase in commercial committed exposure was concentrated in the Real estate, Utilities and Finance companies industry sectors. Increases were partially offset by decreased exposure to the Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, Technology hardware and equipment, and Government and public education industry sectors.

Industry limits are used internally to manage industry concentrations and are based on committed exposure that is allocated on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well 

as to provide ongoing monitoring. The MRC oversees industry limit governance.

Asset managers and funds, our largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $110.0 billion, increased $2.1 billion, or two percent, during 2019.

Real estate, our second largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $96.3 billion, increased $9.8 billion, or 11 percent, during 2019. This growth occurred primarily in the category of industrial and warehouse buildings, partially offset by declines in REITs. 

Capital goods, our third largest industry concentration with committed exposure of $80.9 billion, increased $5.8 billion, or eight percent, during 2019 with the growth largely occurring in the trading companies and distributors industry categories, partially offset by a decrease in industrial conglomerates. For more information on the commercial real estate and related portfolios, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Commercial Real Estate on page 62.

  Bank of America  64

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes U.S. small business commercial exposure.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Industries are viewed from a variety of perspectives to best isolate the perceived risks. For purposes of this table, the real estate industry is defined based on the primary business activity of the borrowers or counterparties using operating cash flows and primary source of repayment as key factors.

(4) Represents net notional credit protection purchased to hedge funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures. For more information, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management – Risk Mitigation.

Risk Mitigation

We purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain credit exposures. To lower the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, we may add credit exposure within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection.

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, net notional credit default protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedge our funded and unfunded exposures for which  we elected the fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was $3.3 billion and $2.7 billion. We recorded net losses of $145 million in 2019 compared to net losses of $2 million in 2018 on these positions. The gains and losses on these instruments were offset by gains and losses on the related exposures. The Value-at-Risk 

(VaR) results for these exposures are included in the fair value 

option portfolio information in Table 45. For more information, see Trading Risk Management on page 72.

Tables 39 and 40 present the maturity profiles and the credit exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

65 Bank of America

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents net credit default protection purchased.

(2) Ratings are refreshed on a quarterly basis.

(3) Ratings of BBB- or higher are considered to meet the definition of investment grade.

(4) NR is comprised of index positions held and any names that have not been rated.

In addition to our net notional credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit from directional or relative value changes. We execute the majority of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with large, multinational financial institutions, including broker-dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors. Because these transactions are executed in the OTC market, we are subject to settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk in the event that these counterparties fail to perform under the terms of these contracts. In order to properly reflect counterparty credit risk, we record counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments on certain derivative assets, including our purchased credit default protection. 

In most cases, credit derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required by the counterparty, where applicable, and/or 

allow us to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. For more information on credit derivatives and counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Non-U.S. Portfolio

Our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social instability and changes in government policies. A risk management framework is in place to measure, monitor and manage non-U.S. risk and exposures. In addition to the direct risk of doing business in a country, we also are exposed to indirect country risks (e.g., related to the collateral received on secured financing transactions or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course of business through credit, market and operational risk governance, rather than through country risk governance.

Table 41 presents our 20 largest non-U.S. country exposures at December 31, 2019. These exposures accounted for 88 percent and 89 percent of our total non-U.S. exposure at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Net country exposure for these 20 countries increased $8.5 billion in 2019, primarily driven by increased sovereign and corporate exposure across multiple countries.

Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or domiciled in countries other than the U.S.

Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases, and other extensions of credit and funds, including letters of credit and due from placements. Unfunded commitments are the undrawn portion of legally binding commitments related to loans and loan equivalents. Net counterparty exposure includes the fair value of derivatives, including the counterparty risk associated with credit default swaps (CDS), and secured financing transactions. Securities and other investments are carried at fair value and long securities exposures are netted against short exposures with the same underlying issuer to, but not below, zero. Net country exposure represents country exposure less hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold.

  Bank of America  66

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A number of economic conditions and geopolitical events have given rise to risk aversion in certain emerging markets. Additionally, in light of ongoing trade tensions, we continue to closely monitor our exposures to tariff-sensitive regions and industries, particularly to countries that account for a large percentage of U.S. trade, such as China.

Our largest emerging market country exposure at December 31, 2019 was China, with net exposure of $15.6 billion, concentrated in large state-owned companies, subsidiaries of multinational corporations and commercial banks.

The economic performance in the EU remains uncertain, including as a result of the uncertainty surrounding the terms of a potential trade agreement and other terms associated with the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU, which could weigh unevenly on the economic performance of EU countries generally, and even more heavily on that of the U.K. For more information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Geopolitical on page 10 and Executive Summary – Recent Developments – U.K. Exit from the EU on page 23. Our largest EU country exposure at December 31, 2019 was 

the U.K. with net exposure of $55.8 billion, which represents a $990 million increase from December 31, 2018. Our second largest EU exposure was Germany with net exposure of $30.8 billion as of December 31, 2019, which represents a $2.2 billion increase from December 31, 2018. The increase in Germany was primarily driven by an increase in sovereign exposure.

Table 42 presents countries that had total cross-border exposure, including the notional amount of cash loaned under secured financing agreements, exceeding one percent of our total assets at December 31, 2019. Local exposure, defined as exposure booked in local offices of a respective country with clients in the same country, is excluded. At December 31, 2019, the U.K. and France were the only countries where their respective total cross-border exposures exceeded one percent of our total assets. At December 31, 2019, Germany had total cross-border exposure of $19.4 billion representing 0.80 percent of our total assets. No other countries had total cross-border exposure that exceeded 0.75 percent of our total assets at December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

67 Bank of America

Provision for Credit Losses

The provision for credit losses increased $308 million to $3.6 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The provision for credit losses was $58 million lower than net charge-offs for 2019, resulting in a decrease in the allowance for credit losses. This compared to a decrease of $481 million in the allowance for credit losses in 2018. Net charge-offs in 2019 were $3.6 billion compared to $3.8 billion in 2018. 

The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio decreased $117 million to $2.8 billion in 2019 compared to 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by consumer real estate loan sales.

The provision for credit losses for the commercial portfolio, including unfunded lending commitments, increased $425 million to $758 million in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase was due in part to energy reserve releases in the prior-year periods. 

Assuming a stable economic environment in 2020 compared to the end of 2019, we expect net charge-offs of approximately $1 billion per quarter in 2020. In view of the newly adopted accounting standard on the measurement of the allowance for credit losses, we expect the provision for credit losses to be modestly higher than net charge-offs in 2020, assuming no change in the current economic outlook and estimates of loan growth, including product mix. For more information regarding the new accounting standard, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Allowance for Credit Losses

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses

The allowance for loan and lease losses is comprised of two components. The first component covers nonperforming commercial loans and TDRs. The second component covers loans and leases on which there are incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable, as well as incurred losses that may not be represented in the loss forecast models. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the total of these two components, each of which is described in more detail below. The allowance for loan and lease losses excludes loans held-for-sale (LHFS) and loans accounted for under the fair value option as the fair value reflects a credit risk component. 

The first component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers both nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs within the consumer and commercial portfolios. These loans are subject to impairment measurement based on the present value of projected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate, or in certain circumstances, impairment may also be based upon the collateral value or the loan’s observable market price if available. Impairment measurement for the renegotiated consumer credit card and small business credit card TDR portfolios is based on the present value of projected cash flows discounted using the average portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. For purposes of computing this specific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated individually and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool using historical experience for the respective product types and risk ratings of the loans.

The second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers the remaining consumer and commercial loans and leases that have incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable. The allowance for consumer (including credit card and other consumer loans) and certain homogeneous commercial loan and lease products is based on aggregated portfolio evaluations, which include both quantitative and qualitative components, 

generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, economic trends, credit scores and the amount of loss in the event of default. Our consumer real estate loss forecast model estimates the portion of loans that will default based on individual loan attributes, the most significant of which are refreshed LTV or combined loan-to-value (CLTV), and borrower credit score as well as vintage and geography, all of which are further broken down into current delinquency status. Additionally, we incorporate the delinquency status of underlying first-lien loans on our junior-lien home equity portfolio in our allowance process. Incorporating refreshed LTV and CLTV into our probability of default allows us to factor the impact of changes in home prices into our allowance for loan and lease losses. These loss forecast models are updated on a quarterly basis to incorporate information reflecting the current economic environment. As of December 31, 2019, the loss forecast process resulted in reductions in the allowance related to the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios compared to December 31, 2018.

The allowance for commercial loan and lease losses is established by product type after analyzing historical loss experience, internal risk rating, current economic conditions, industry performance trends, geographic and obligor concentrations within each portfolio and any other pertinent information. The statistical models for commercial loans are generally updated annually and utilize our historical database of actual defaults and other data, including external default data. The loan risk ratings and composition of the commercial portfolios used to calculate the allowance are updated quarterly to incorporate the most recent data reflecting the current economic environment. For risk-rated commercial loans, we estimate the probability of default and the loss given default (LGD) based on our historical experience of defaults and credit losses. Factors considered when assessing the internal risk rating include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry in which the obligor operates, the obligor’s liquidity and other financial indicators, and other quantitative and qualitative factors relevant to the obligor’s credit risk. As of December 31, 2019, the allowance for the commercial real estate portfolio increased compared to December 31, 2018.

Also included within the second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses are reserves to cover losses that are incurred but, in our assessment, may not be adequately represented in the historical loss data used in the loss forecast models. For example, factors that we consider include, among others, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in economic and business conditions, changes in the nature and size of the portfolio, changes in portfolio concentrations, changes in the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory requirements. Further, we consider the inherent uncertainty in mathematical models that are built upon historical data.

We monitor differences between estimated and actual incurred loan and lease losses. This monitoring process includes periodic assessments by senior management of loan and lease portfolios and the models used to estimate incurred losses in those portfolios.

The allowance for loan and lease losses for the consumer portfolio, as presented in Table 43, was $4.5 billion at December 31, 2019, a decrease of $260 million from December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily in the consumer real estate portfolio, partially offset by an increase in the credit card portfolio. The 

  Bank of America  68

reduction in the allowance for the consumer real estate portfolio was driven by improved credit quality, a decrease in loan balances in our non-core portfolio, proactive credit risk management initiatives and high credit quality originations. The improved credit quality was impacted by continuing improvements in the U.S. economy and strong labor markets evidenced by low levels of unemployment and increases in home prices. Nonperforming consumer loans decreased $1.8 billion during 2019 as loan sales, returns to performing status and paydowns continued to outpace additions. The increase in allowance for the credit card portfolio was primarily driven by continued portfolio seasoning. 

The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio, as presented in Table 43, was $4.9 billion at December 31, 2019, an increase of $75 million from December 31, 2018. Commercial reservable criticized utilized exposure increased to $11.5 billion at December 31, 2019 from $11.1 billion (to 2.09 percent from 2.08 percent of total commercial reservable utilized exposure) at December 31, 2018, and nonperforming commercial loans increased to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2019 from $1.1 billion (to 0.29 percent from 0.22 percent of outstanding commercial loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option) at December 31, 2018 with the increases spread across multiple industries. See Tables 32, 33 and 34 for more details on key commercial credit statistics.

The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was 0.97 percent at December 31, 2019 compared to 1.02 percent at December 31, 2018.

On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new accounting standard that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the 

Corporation’s relevant financial assets. Upon adoption of the standard on January 1, 2020, the Corporation recorded a $3.3 billion, or 32 percent, increase to the allowance for credit losses. After adjusting for deferred taxes and other adoption effects, a $2.4 billion decrease was recorded in retained earnings through a cumulative-effect adjustment. For more information regarding this new accounting standard, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments

In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we also estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees, unfunded bankers’ acceptances and binding loan commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to the same assessment as funded loans, including estimates of probability of default and LGD. Due to the nature of unfunded commitments, the estimate of probable losses must also consider utilization. To estimate the portion of these undrawn commitments that is likely to be drawn by a borrower at the time of estimated default, analyses of our historical experience are applied to the unfunded commitments to estimate the funded exposure at default (EAD). The expected loss for unfunded lending commitments is the product of the probability of default, the LGD and the EAD, adjusted for any qualitative factors including economic uncertainty and inherent imprecision in models.

The reserve for unfunded lending commitments was $813 million at December 31, 2019 compared to $797 million at December 31, 2018. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

69 Bank of America

Table 44 presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, for 2019 and 2018. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Primarily represents write-offs of purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans, the net impact of portfolio sales, and transfers to loans held-for-sale.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(7) Primarily includes amounts allocated to credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in Consumer Banking.

  Bank of America  70

Market Risk Management

Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our Global Markets segment. We are also exposed to these risks in other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact on our results. For more information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book on page 74.

Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are non-trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, these positions are still subject to changes in economic value based on varying market conditions, with one of the primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our non-trading positions arising from changes in interest rates is managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option.

Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values of assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity, correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility. We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of techniques that encompass a broad range of financial instruments. The key risk management techniques are discussed in more detail in the Trading Risk Management section.

Global Risk Management is responsible for providing senior management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the trading risks to which we are exposed. These responsibilities include ownership of market risk policy, developing and maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating aggregated risk measures, establishing and monitoring position limits consistent with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of trading inventory, approving material risk exposures and fulfilling regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses outside of Global Markets are monitored and governed by their respective governance functions.

Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. Given that models are used across the Corporation, model risk impacts all risk types including credit, market and operational risk. The Enterprise Model Risk Committee (EMRC), a subcommittee of the MRC, is responsible for providing management oversight and approval of model risk management and governance. The EMRC defines model risk standards, consistent with the Corporation’s Risk Framework and risk appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best practice. All models, including risk management, valuation and regulatory capital models, must meet certain validation criteria, including effective challenge of the conceptual soundness of the model, independent model testing and ongoing monitoring through outcomes analysis and benchmarking. The EMRC oversees that model standards are consistent with model risk requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model validation process across the Corporation.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities, 

certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps.

Foreign Exchange Risk

Foreign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The types of instruments exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, foreign currency-denominated loans and securities, future cash flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate with changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or non-U.S. interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include foreign exchange options, currency swaps, futures, forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits.

Mortgage Risk

Mortgage risk represents exposures to changes in the values of mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt ratings, default, market liquidity, government participation and interest rate volatility. Our exposure to these instruments takes several forms. For example, we trade and engage in market-making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including whole loans, pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations including collateralized debt obligations using mortgages as underlying collateral. In addition, we originate a variety of MBS, which involves the accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of eventual securitization, and we may hold positions in mortgage securities and residential mortgage loans as part of the ALM portfolio. We also record MSRs as part of our mortgage origination activities. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and forwards as well as securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. For more information, see Mortgage Banking Risk Management on page 76.

Equity Market Risk

Equity market risk represents exposures to securities that represent an ownership interest in a corporation in the form of domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked instruments. Instruments that would lead to this exposure include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock, exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures, swaps, convertible bonds and cash positions.

Commodity Risk

Commodity risk represents exposures to instruments traded in the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These instruments consist primarily of futures, forwards, swaps and options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity product, as well as cash positions.

Issuer Credit Risk

Issuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an asset may be adversely impacted by changes in the levels of credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging instruments 

71 Bank of America

used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and other credit fixed-income instruments.

Market Liquidity Risk

Market liquidity risk represents the risk that the level of expected market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner which may impact our results. This impact could be further exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management.

Trading Risk Management

To evaluate risks in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of revenues generated by individual positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single position to the portfolio of the Corporation. These measures include sensitivities of positions to various market risk factors, such as the potential impact on revenue from a one basis point change in interest rates, and statistical measures utilizing both actual and hypothetical market moves, such as VaR and stress testing. Periods of extreme market stress influence the reliability of these techniques to varying degrees. Qualitative evaluations of market risk utilize the suite of quantitative risk measures while understanding each of their respective limitations. Additionally, risk managers independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios under the current market environment and potential future environments.

VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number of times per period, based on a specified holding period, confidence level and window of historical data. We use one VaR model consistently across the trading portfolios and it uses a historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level, which means that for a VaR with a one-day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR, on average, 99 out of 100 trading days.

Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous assumptions that will differ from company to company. The accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A VaR model may require additional modeling assumptions for new products that do not have the necessary historical market data or for less liquid positions for which accurate daily prices are not consistently available. For positions with insufficient historical data for the VaR calculation, the process for establishing an appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This analysis identifies reasonable alternatives that replicate both the expected volatility and correlation to other market risk factors that the missing data would be expected to experience.

VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue volatility as changes in market conditions or in the composition of the portfolio can have a material impact on the results. In particular, the historical data used for the VaR calculation might indicate higher or lower levels of portfolio diversification than will be experienced. 

In order for the VaR model to reflect current market conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR model on a weekly basis, or more frequently during periods of market stress, and regularly review the assumptions underlying the model. A minor portion of risks related to our trading positions is not included in VaR. These risks are reviewed as part of our ICAAP. For more information regarding ICAAP, see Capital Management on page 45.

Global Risk Management continually reviews, evaluates and enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed and approved prior to implementation and any material changes are reported to management through the appropriate management committees.

Trading limits on quantitative risk measures, including VaR, are independently set by Global Markets Risk Management and reviewed on a regular basis so that trading limits remain relevant and within our overall risk appetite for market risks. Trading limits are reviewed in the context of market liquidity, volatility and strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set at both a granular level to allow for extensive coverage of risks as well as at aggregated portfolios to account for correlations among risk factors. All trading limits are approved at least annually. Approved trading limits are stored and tracked in a centralized limits management system. Trading limit excesses are communicated to management for review. Certain quantitative market risk measures and corresponding limits have been identified as critical in the Corporation’s Risk Appetite Statement. These risk appetite limits are reported on a daily basis and are approved at least annually by the ERC and the Board.

In periods of market stress, Global Markets senior leadership communicates daily to discuss losses, key risk positions and any limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may selectively reduce risk.

Table 45 presents the total market-based portfolio VaR which is the combination of the total covered positions (and less liquid trading positions) portfolio and the fair value option portfolio. Covered positions are defined by regulatory standards as trading assets and liabilities, both on- and off-balance sheet, that meet a defined set of specifications. These specifications identify the most liquid trading positions which are intended to be held for a short-term horizon and where we are able to hedge the material risk elements in a two-way market. Positions in less liquid markets, or where there are restrictions on the ability to trade the positions, typically do not qualify as covered positions. Foreign exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, except for structural foreign currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory approval. In addition, Table 45 presents our fair value option portfolio, which includes substantially all of the funded and unfunded exposures for which we elect the fair value option, and their corresponding hedges. Additionally, market risk VaR for trading activities as presented in Table 45 differs from VaR used for regulatory capital calculations due to the holding period being used. The holding period for VaR used for regulatory capital calculations is 10 days, while for the market risk VaR presented below, it is one day. Both measures utilize the same process and methodology.

The total market-based portfolio VaR results in Table 45 include market risk to which we are exposed from all business segments, excluding credit valuation adjustment (CVA), DVA and related hedges. The majority of this portfolio is within the Global Markets segment.

Table 45 presents year-end, average, high and low daily trading VaR for 2019 and 2018 using a 99 percent confidence level. The amounts disclosed in Table 45 and Table 46 align to the view of covered positions used in the Basel 3 capital calculations. Foreign 

  Bank of America  72

exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, regardless of trading or banking treatment for the trade, except for structural foreign currency positions that are excluded with prior regulatory approval.

The annual average of total covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio VaR slightly increased during 2019 with no significant drivers.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The high and low for each portfolio may have occurred on different trading days than the high and low for the components. Therefore the impact from less liquid exposures and the amount of portfolio diversification, which is the difference between the total portfolio and the sum of the individual components, is not relevant.

The graph below presents the daily covered positions and less liquid trading positions portfolio VaR for 2019, corresponding to the data in Table 45.

Additional VaR statistics produced within our single VaR model are provided in Table 46 at the same level of detail as in Table 45. Evaluating VaR with additional statistics allows for an increased understanding of the risks in the portfolio as the historical market data used in the VaR calculation does not necessarily follow a predefined statistical distribution. Table 46 presents average trading VaR statistics at 99 percent and 95 percent confidence levels for 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

73 Bank of America

Backtesting 

The accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by backtesting, which compares the daily VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, against a comparable subset of trading revenue. A backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss exceeds the VaR for the corresponding day. These excesses are evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that produced the trading loss with a goal to ensure that the VaR methodology accurately represents those losses. We expect the frequency of trading losses in excess of VaR to be in line with the confidence level of the VaR statistic being tested. For example, with a 99 percent confidence level, we expect one trading loss in excess of VaR every 100 days or between two to three trading losses in excess of VaR over the course of a year. The number of backtesting excesses observed can differ from the statistically expected number of excesses if the current level of market volatility is materially different than the level of market volatility that existed during the three years of historical data used in the VaR calculation.

The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes revenue from trading activities that either do not generate market risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some examples of the types of revenue excluded for backtesting are fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income and intra-day trading revenues. 

We conduct daily backtesting on the VaR results used for regulatory capital calculations as well as the VaR results for key legal entities, regions and risk factors. These results are reported to senior market risk management. Senior management regularly reviews and evaluates the results of these tests. 

During 2019, there were no days in which there was a backtesting excess for our total covered portfolio VaR, utilizing a

one-day holding period.

Total Trading-related Revenue

Total trading-related revenue, excluding brokerage fees, and CVA, DVA and funding valuation adjustment gains (losses), represents the total amount earned from trading positions, including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a diverse range of 

financial instruments and markets. Trading account assets and liabilities are reported at fair value. For more information on fair value, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading-related revenue can be volatile and is largely driven by general market conditions and customer demand. Also, trading-related revenue is dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. Significant daily revenue by business is monitored and the primary drivers of these are reviewed.

The following histogram is a graphic depiction of trading volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue for 2019 and 2018. During 2019, positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent of the trading days, of which 80 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million, and the largest loss was $35 million. This compares to 2018 where positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent of the trading days, of which 79 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million. 

Trading Portfolio Stress Testing

Because the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited historical window, we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis. This analysis estimates the change in the value of our trading portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements. 

A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio and individual businesses. These scenarios include shocks to underlying market risk factors that may be well beyond the shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR. Historical scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves that occurred during a period of extended historical market stress. Generally, a multi-week period representing the most severe point during a crisis is selected for each historical scenario. Hypothetical scenarios provide estimated portfolio impacts from potential future market stress events. Scenarios are reviewed and updated in response to changing positions and new economic or political information. In addition, new or ad hoc scenarios are developed to address specific potential market events or particular vulnerabilities in the portfolio. The stress tests are reviewed on a regular basis and the results are presented to senior management.

Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporated into the limits framework. The macroeconomic scenarios used for enterprise-wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and the results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For more information, see Managing Risk on page 42.

Interest Rate Risk Management for the Banking Book

The following discussion presents net interest income for banking book activities. 

Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk exposure to our banking book balance sheet. Interest rate risk is measured as the potential change in net interest income caused by movements in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive positions on our balance sheet.

We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor 

  Bank of America  74

our balance sheet position in order to maintain an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes.

The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing, maturity characteristics and investment securities premium amortization. Our overall goal is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital.

Table 47 presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table 48 shows the pretax impact to forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months from December 31, 2019 and 2018, resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically we evaluate the scenarios presented so that they are meaningful in the context of the current rate environment.

During 2019, the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet increased primarily due to decreases in interest rates. We continue to be asset sensitive to a parallel move in interest rates with the majority of that impact coming from the short end of the yield curve. Additionally, higher interest rates impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as available for sale (AFS), may adversely affect accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and thus capital levels under the Basel 3 capital rules. Under instantaneous upward parallel shifts, the near-term adverse impact to Basel 3 capital is reduced over time by offsetting positive impacts to net interest income. For more information on Basel 3, see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital on page 46.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sensitivity analysis in Table 48 assumes that we take no action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume any change in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with 

changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM activities, we use securities, certain residential mortgages, and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity.

The behavior of our deposits portfolio in the baseline forecast and in alternate interest rate scenarios is a key assumption in our projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity analysis in Table 48 assumes no change in deposit portfolio size or mix from the baseline forecast in alternate rate environments. In higher rate scenarios, any customer activity resulting in the replacement of low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits with higher yielding deposits or market-based funding would reduce our benefit in those scenarios.

Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative Contracts

Interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For more information on our hedging activities, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.

Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during 2019 reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency environments, balance sheet composition and trends, and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions. 

We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI were $496 million and $1.3 billion, on a pretax basis, at December 31, 2019 and 2018. These net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at December 31, 2019, the pretax net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings as follows: 17 percent within the next year, 44 percent in years two through five, 22 percent in years six through ten, with the remaining 17 percent thereafter. For more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, see Note 3 – Derivatives to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and foreign exchange options. We recorded net after-tax losses on derivatives in accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which were offset by gains on our net investments in consolidated non-U.S. entities at December 31, 2019.

Table 49 presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted-average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and average estimated 

75 Bank of America

durations of our open ALM derivatives at December 31, 2019 and 2018. These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs. During 2019, the fair value of receive-fixed interest rate 

swaps increased while pay-fixed interest rate swaps decreased, driven by lower swap rates.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Does not include basis adjustments on either fixed-rate debt issued by the Corporation or AFS debt securities, which are hedged using derivatives designated as fair value hedging instruments, that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Foreign exchange basis swaps consisted of cross-currency variable interest rate swaps used separately or in conjunction with receive-fixed interest rate swaps.

(4) Does not include foreign currency translation adjustments on certain non-U.S. debt issued by the Corporation that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(6) Reflects the net of long and short positions. Amounts shown as negative reflect a net short position.

Mortgage Banking Risk Management

We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be held for investment or held for sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate.

Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest rates and other market factors impact the volume of mortgage originations. Changes in interest rates also impact the value of interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and the related residential first mortgage LHFS between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans are sold to the secondary market. An increase in mortgage interest rates typically leads to a decrease in the value of these instruments. Conversely, when there is an increase in interest 

rates, the value of the MSRs will increase driven by lower prepayment expectations. Because the interest rate risks of these hedged items offset, we combine them into one overall hedged item with one combined economic hedge portfolio consisting of derivative contracts and securities. 

During 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded gains of $291 million, $244 million and $118 million related to the change in fair value of the MSRs, IRLCs and LHFS, net of gains and losses on the hedge portfolio. For more information on MSRs, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Compliance and Operational Risk Management

Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the 

  Bank of America  76

requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and our internal policies and procedures (collectively, applicable laws, rules and regulations).

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, including third-party business processes, and is not limited to operations functions. Effects may extend beyond financial losses and may result in reputational risk impacts. Operational risk includes legal risk. Additionally, operational risk is a component in the calculation of total risk-weighted assets used in the Basel 3 capital calculation. For more information on Basel 3 calculations, see Capital Management on page 45. 

FLUs and control functions are first and foremost responsible for managing all aspects of their businesses, including their compliance and operational risk. FLUs and control functions are required to understand their business processes and related risks and controls, including third-party dependencies, the related regulatory requirements, and monitor and report on the effectiveness of the control environment. In order to actively monitor and assess the performance of their processes and controls, they must conduct comprehensive quality assurance activities and identify issues and risks to remediate control gaps and weaknesses. FLUs and control functions must also adhere to compliance and operational risk appetite limits to meet strategic, capital and financial planning objectives. Finally, FLUs and control functions are responsible for the proactive identification, management and escalation of compliance and operational risks across the Corporation.

Global Compliance and Operational Risk teams independently assess compliance and operational risk, monitor business activities and processes, evaluate FLUs and control functions for adherence to applicable laws, rules and regulations, including identifying issues and risks, determining and developing tests to be conducted by the Enterprise Independent Testing unit, and reporting on the state of the control environment. Enterprise Independent Testing, an independent testing function within IRM, works with Global Compliance and Operational Risk, the FLUs and control functions in the identification of testing needs and test design, and is accountable for test execution, reporting and analysis of results.

Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key compliance and operational risk processes and controls across the Corporation.

The Corporation's Global Compliance Enterprise Policy and Operational Risk Management - Enterprise Policy set the requirements for reporting compliance and operational risk information to executive management as well as the Board or appropriate Board-level committees in support of Global Compliance and Operational Risk’s responsibilities for conducting independent oversight of our compliance and operational risk management activities. The Board provides oversight of compliance risk through its Audit Committee and the ERC, and operational risk through the ERC.

A key operational risk facing the Corporation is information security, which includes cybersecurity. Cybersecurity risk represents, among other things, exposure to failures or interruptions of service or breaches of security, including as a result of malicious technological attacks, that impact the confidentiality, availability or integrity of our, or third parties' (including their downstream service providers, the financial services industry and financial data aggregators) operations, systems or data, including sensitive corporate and customer information. The Corporation manages information security risk in accordance with internal policies which govern our 

comprehensive information security program designed to protect the Corporation by enabling preventative, detective and responsive measures to combat information and cybersecurity risks. The Board and the ERC provide cybersecurity and information security risk oversight for the Corporation and our Global Information Security Team manages the day-to-day implementation of our information security program.

Reputational Risk Management

Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation’s conduct or business practices may adversely impact its profitability or operations. Reputational risk may result from many of the Corporation’s activities, including those related to the management of our strategic, operational, compliance and credit risks.

The Corporation manages reputational risk through established policies and controls in its businesses and risk management processes to mitigate reputational risks in a timely manner and through proactive monitoring and identification of potential reputational risk events. If reputational risk events occur, we focus on remediating the underlying issue and taking action to minimize damage to the Corporation’s reputation. The Corporation has processes and procedures in place to respond to events that give rise to reputational risk, including educating individuals and organizations that influence public opinion, implementing external communication strategies to mitigate the risk, and informing key stakeholders of potential reputational risks. The Corporation’s organization and governance structure provides oversight of reputational risks, and reputational risk reporting is provided regularly and directly to management and the ERC, which provides primary oversight of reputational risk. In addition, each FLU has a committee, which includes representatives from Compliance, Legal and Risk, that is responsible for the oversight of reputational risk. Such committees’ oversight includes providing approval for business activities that present elevated levels of reputational risks.

Complex Accounting Estimates

Our significant accounting principles, as described in Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are essential in understanding the MD&A. Many of our significant accounting principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making these judgments. 

The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the following discussion. We have identified and described the development of the variables most important in the estimation processes that involve mathematical models to derive the estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative judgments that could be used in the process of determining the inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our estimates of the key variables could materially impact our results of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our results of operations from input and model variables, the value of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies in our models or inputs.

77 Bank of America

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management’s estimate of probable incurred credit losses in the Corporation’s loan and lease portfolio excluding those loans accounted for under the fair value option. The allowance for credit losses includes both quantitative and qualitative components. The qualitative component has a higher degree of management subjectivity, and includes factors such as concentrations, economic conditions and other considerations. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our estimate for the allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the loss rates and expected cash flows from our Consumer Real Estate and Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial card portfolio within the Commercial portfolio segment. For each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment in our Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment, coupled with a one-percent decrease in the discounted cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within this portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31, 2019 would have increased $18 million. Within our Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, for each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment coupled with a one-percent decrease in the expected cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31, 2019 would have increased $46 million.

Our allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the risk ratings assigned to loans and leases within the Commercial portfolio segment (excluding the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio). Assuming a downgrade of one level in the internal risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, except loans and leases already classified as Substandard and Doubtful as defined by regulatory authorities, the allowance for loan and lease losses would have increased $2.6 billion at December 31, 2019.

The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases at December 31, 2019 was 0.97 percent and these hypothetical increases in the allowance would raise the ratio to 1.24 percent.

These sensitivity analyses do not represent management’s expectations of the deterioration in risk ratings or the increases in loss rates but are provided as hypothetical scenarios to assess the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to changes in key inputs. We believe the risk ratings and loss severities currently in use are appropriate and that the probability of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within a short period of time is remote.

The process of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.

The processes, judgments and estimates described herein relate to the accounting standard in effect through December 31, 2019. On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted the new accounting standard that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the Corporation’s relevant financial assets. The Corporation’s lifetime 

expected credit losses are determined using macroeconomic forecast assumptions and management judgments applicable to and through the expected life of the loan portfolios. For more 

information, see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Under applicable accounting standards, we are required to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in measuring fair value. We classify fair value measurements of financial instruments and MSRs based on the three-level fair value hierarchy in the accounting standards. 

The fair values of assets and liabilities may include adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality, where appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are supported by little or no market activity. In periods of extreme volatility, lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use in the valuation process. In keeping with the prudent application of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various processes and controls that include: a model validation policy that requires review and approval of quantitative models used for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review and substantiation of daily profit and loss reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which can and do include both market-observable and internally-modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this information is affected by our understanding of how the broker and/or pricing service develops its data with a higher degree of reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own internal modeling. For example, broker quotes in less active markets may only be indicative and therefore less reliable. These processes and controls are performed independently of the business. For more information, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements and Note 22 – Fair Value Option to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Level 3 Assets and Liabilities

Financial assets and liabilities, and MSRs, where values are based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy established in applicable accounting standards. The fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities and MSRs is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 

Level 3 financial instruments may be hedged with derivatives classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or losses associated with financial instruments classified in other levels of the fair value hierarchy. The Level 3 gains and losses recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or capital. We conduct a review of our fair value hierarchy classifications on 

a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. For more information on transfers into and out of Level 3 during 2019, 2018 

  Bank of America  78

and 2017, see Note 21 – Fair Value Measurements to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets

Accrued income taxes, reported as a component of either other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently file income tax returns in more than 100 jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance, in estimating the appropriate accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction.

Net deferred tax assets, reported as a component of other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amounts that we estimate are more likely than not to be realized.

Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimates of accrued income taxes and/or net deferred tax assets due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimates, which also may result from our income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax audit matters, may be material to our operating results for any given period.

See Note 20 – Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of significant tax attributes and additional information. For more information, see page 14 under Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory, Compliance and Legal.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

The nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets are discussed in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles, and Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2019 for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. We performed that test by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its respective carrying value. Factors considered in the qualitative assessments include, among other things, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, financial performance of the respective reporting unit and other relevant entity- and reporting-unit specific considerations. If based on the results of the qualitative assessment, it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a quantitative assessment is performed.

Based on our qualitative assessments, we determined that for each reporting unit with goodwill, it was more likely than not that its respective fair value exceeded its carrying value, indicating there was no impairment. For more information regarding goodwill balances at June 30, 2019, see Note 8 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Certain Contingent Liabilities 

For more information on the complex judgments associated with certain contingent liabilities, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

79 Bank of America

Non-GAAP Reconciliations

Tables 50 and 51 provide reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  Bank of America  80

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5) Includes card-related products.

(6) Represents non-U.S. credit card loans, which were included in assets of business held for sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

81 Bank of America

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Our policy is to classify consumer real estate-secured loans as nonperforming at 90 days past due, except the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option.

(2) Balances are fully-insured loans.

  Bank of America  82

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms.

(2) Includes loans accounted for under the fair value option.

(3) Loan maturities include non-U.S. commercial and commercial real estate loans.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Represents amounts related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4) Primarily represents write-offs of PCI loans, the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, foreign currency translation adjustments, transfers to held for sale and certain other reclassifications.

(5) Represents allowance related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.

83 Bank of America

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Represents allowance for loan and lease losses related to the non-U.S. credit card loan portfolio, which was sold in 2017.

  Bank of America  84

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk