Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Market risks

Our enterprise risk management process is intended to ensure that we take risks knowingly and thoughtfully and that we balance potential risks and rewards. Our integrated enterprise risk management framework is designed to identify, evaluate, communicate, and appropriately mitigate risks across our operations.

We face market risks arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates. We manage market risks through procurement strategies as well as the use of derivative and other financial instruments. Our risk management program is governed by policies that authorize and control the nature and scope of transactions that we use to mitigate market risks. Our policy permits the use of derivative financial instruments to mitigate market risks but prohibits their use for speculative purposes.

Foreign currency exchange rate risk. Foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. In general, we expect our cash flows to be negatively affected by a stronger dollar and positively affected by a weaker dollar. Our most significant foreign currency exposures include the euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Polish zloty, the Mexican peso, and the Russian ruble. We manage our foreign currency exposures through derivative financial instruments, principally foreign currency forward contracts, and debt denominated in foreign currency. We had outstanding currency derivatives with notional amounts totaling $1,241 million and $1,026 million at April 30, 2019 and 2020, respectively.

We estimate that a hypothetical 10% weakening of the dollar compared to exchange rates of hedged currencies as of April 30, 2020, would decrease the fair value of our then-existing foreign currency derivative contracts by approximately $75 million. This hypothetical change in fair value does not consider the expected inverse change in the underlying foreign currency exposures.

Commodity price risk. Commodity price changes can affect our production and supply chain costs. Our most significant commodities exposures include corn, malted barley, rye, natural gas, agave, and wood. We manage certain exposures through a combination of purchase orders and long-term supply contracts.

Interest rate risk. Interest rate changes affect (a) the fair value of our fixed-rate debt, and (b) cash flows and earnings related to our variable-rate debt and interest-bearing investments. In addition to currently outstanding debt, any potential future debt offerings are subject to interest rate risk. Our interest rate exposures include U.S. Treasury rates, European Central Bank rates, British government rates, and LIBOR. 

As of April 30, 2020, our cash and cash equivalents ($675 million) and short-term borrowings ($333 million) were exposed to interest rate changes. Based on the then-existing balances of these items, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would result in a negligible decrease in net interest expense.

See Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our foreign currency exchange rate risk. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on our grape and agave purchase obligations, which are exposed to commodity price risk, and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of our pension and other postretirement plans’ exposure to interest rate risks. Also see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for details on how economic conditions affecting market risks also affect the demand for and pricing of our products and how we are affected by exchange rate fluctuations.

44

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data