PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

BorgWarner Inc. (together with it Consolidated Subsidiaries, the “Company” or "BorgWarner") is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1987. We are a global product leader in clean and efficient technology solutions for combustion, hybrid and electric vehicles. Our products help improve vehicle performance, propulsion efficiency, stability and air quality. We manufacture and sell these products worldwide, primarily to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) of light vehicles (passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles ("SUVs"), vans and light trucks). The Company's products are also sold to OEMs of commercial vehicles (medium-duty trucks, heavy-duty trucks and buses) and off-highway vehicles (agricultural and construction machinery and marine applications). We also manufacture and sell our products to certain Tier One vehicle systems suppliers and into the aftermarket for light, commercial and off-highway vehicles. The Company operates manufacturing facilities serving customers in Europe, the Americas and Asia and is an original equipment supplier to every major automotive OEM in the world. 

Proposed Acquisition of Delphi Technologies PLC

On January 28, 2020, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Delphi Technologies PLC (“Delphi Technologies”) in an all-stock transaction valued at approximately $3.3 billion, based on the closing price of BorgWarner stock on January 27, 2020. Refer to Note 23, “Subsequent Event,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. The Company believes this acquisition will increase our power electronics products, capabilities and scale, creating a leader in electrified propulsion systems that is well positioned to take advantage of future propulsion migration, enhance our combustion, commercial vehicle and aftermarket businesses and maintain flexibility across combustion, hybrid and electric propulsion, consistent with our evolution towards the propulsion market of the future.

Financial Information About Reporting Segments

 Refer to Note 21, “Reporting Segments and Related Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial information about the Company's reporting segments. 

Narrative Description of Reporting Segments

The Company reports its results under two reporting segments: Engine and Drivetrain. Net sales by reporting segment for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 The sales information presented above does not include the sales by the Company's unconsolidated joint ventures (see sub-heading “Joint Ventures”). Such unconsolidated sales totaled approximately $827 million, $947 million, and $844 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

5

Engine

The Engine Segment develops and manufactures products to improve fuel economy, reduce emissions and enhance performance. Increasingly stringent regulations of, and consumer demand for, better fuel economy and emissions performance are driving demand for the Engine Segment's products in combustion, hybrid and electric propulsion systems. The Engine Segment's technologies include: turbochargers, eBoosters, timing systems, emissions systems, thermal systems, gasoline ignition technology, cabin heaters, battery heaters and battery charging.

Turbochargers provide several benefits including increased power for a given engine size, improved fuel economy and reduced emissions. The Engine Segment has benefited from the growth in turbocharger demand around the world for both combustion and hybrid propulsion systems. The Engine Segment provides turbochargers for light, commercial and off-highway applications for combustion and hybrid vehicles in Europe, the Americas and Asia. The Engine Segment also designs and manufactures turbocharger actuators using integrated electronics to precisely control turbocharger speed and pressure ratio.

Sales of turbochargers for light vehicles represented approximately 28%, 27% and 28% of total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Engine Segment currently supplies turbochargers to many OEMs including BMW, Daimler, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles ("FCA"), Ford, General Motors, Hyundai, Jaguar Land Rover, Renault, Volkswagen and Volvo. The Engine Segment also supplies turbochargers to several commercial vehicle and off-highway OEMs including Caterpillar, Daimler, Deutz, John Deere, MAN, Navistar International and Weichai.

The Engine Segment's timing systems enable precise control of air and exhaust flow through the engine, improving fuel economy and emissions. The Engine Segment's timing systems products include timing chain, variable cam timing (“VCT”), crankshaft and camshaft sprockets, tensioners, guides and snubbers, HY-VO® front-wheel drive (“FWD”) transmission chain, four-wheel drive (“4WD”) chain for light vehicles and hybrid power transmission chain. The Engine Segment is a leading manufacturer of timing systems for OEMs around the world.

The Engine Segment's engine timing technology includes VCT with mid-position lock, which allows a greater range of camshaft positioning thereby enabling better control over airflow and the opportunity to improve fuel economy, reduce emissions and improve engine performance compared with conventional VCT systems.

The Engine Segment's emissions systems products improve emissions performance and fuel economy. Products include electric air pumps and exhaust gas recirculation ("EGR") modules, EGR coolers, EGR valves, glow plugs and instant starting systems for combustion, both gasoline and diesel propulsion systems, and hybrid vehicles.

The Engine Segment's thermal systems products are designed to optimize temperatures in propulsion systems and vehicle cabins. Products include viscous fan drives that sense and respond to multiple cooling requirements, polymer fans, coolant pumps, cabin heaters, battery heaters and battery charging. 

In 2017, the Company started exploring strategic options for its non-core emission product lines in the Engine segment and launched an active program to locate a buyer and initiated other actions required to complete the plan to sell and exit the non-core pipes and thermostat product lines. In December 2018, the Company reached an agreement to sell its thermostat product lines, and the sale was closed on April 1, 2019. Additionally, during the year, the Company entered into agreements to transition its pipes product lines to multiple buyers. During the year, the assets and liabilities were 

6

removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Refer to Note 20, “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. 

Drivetrain

The Drivetrain Segment develops and manufactures products to improve fuel economy, reduce emissions and enhance performance in combustion, hybrid and electric vehicles. The Drivetrain Segment’s technologies include: rotating electrical components, power electronics, clutching systems, control modules and all-wheel drive systems. The core design features of its rotating electrical components portfolio meet the demands of increasing vehicle electrification, improved fuel efficiency, reduced weight, and lowered electrical and mechanical noise. The Drivetrain Segment's mechanical products include friction, controls products for automatic transmissions and torque management products for All-Wheel Drive ("AWD") vehicles, and its rotating electrical components include starter motors, alternators and electric motors for hybrid and electric vehicles.

Friction and mechanical products for automatic transmissions include dual clutch modules, friction clutch modules, friction and separator plates, transmission bands, torque converter clutches, one-way clutches and torsional vibration dampers. Controls products for automatic transmissions feature electro-hydraulic solenoids for standard and high pressure hydraulic systems, transmission solenoid modules and dual clutch control modules. The Company's 50%-owned joint venture in Japan, NSK-Warner KK ("NSK-Warner"), is a leading producer of friction plates and one-way clutches in Japan and China.

 The Drivetrain Segment has led the globalization of today's dual clutch transmission ("DCT") technology for over 15 years. BorgWarner's award-winning DualTronic® technology enables a conventional, manual gearbox to function as a fully automatic transmission by eliminating the interruption in power flow that occurs when shifting a single clutch manual transmission. The result is a smooth shifting automatic transmission with the fuel efficiency and driving experience of a manual gearbox.

The Drivetrain Segment's torque management products include rear-wheel drive (“RWD”)-AWD transfer case systems, FWD-AWD coupling systems and cross-axle coupling systems. The Drivetrain Segment's focus is on developing electronically-controlled torque management devices and systems that will benefit fuel economy and vehicle dynamics.

 Transfer cases are installed on RWD-based light trucks, SUVs, cross-over utility vehicles, and passenger cars. A transfer case attaches to the transmission and distributes torque to the front and rear axles improving vehicle traction and stability in dynamic driving conditions. There are many variants of the Drivetrain Segment's transfer case technology in the market today, including Torque On-Demand (TOD®), chain-driven, gear-driven, Pre-Emptive, Part-Time, 1-speed and 2-speed transfer cases. The Drivetrain Segment's transfer cases are featured on Ford and Ram light-duty and heavy-duty trucks.

The Drivetrain Segment is involved in the AWD market for FWD-based vehicles with couplings that use electronically-controlled clutches to distribute power to the rear wheels as traction is required. The Drivetrain Segment's latest coupling innovation, the Centrifugal Electro-Hydraulic (“CEH”) Actuator, used to engage the clutches in the coupling, produces outstanding vehicle stability and traction while promoting better fuel economy with reduced weight. The CEH Actuator is found in the AWD couplings featured in several current FWD-AWD vehicles.

In 2015, the Company acquired Remy International, Inc. (“Remy”), a global market leader in the design, manufacture, remanufacture and distribution of rotating electrical components for light and commercial vehicles, OEMs and the aftermarket. Remy's principal products include starter motors, alternators and electric motors. The Company’s starter motors and alternators are used in gasoline, diesel, natural gas and alternative fuel engines for light vehicle, commercial vehicle, and off-highway applications. The product technology continues to evolve to meet the demands of increasing vehicle 

7

electrical loads, improved fuel efficiency, reduced weight and lowered electrical and mechanical noise. The Company’s electric motors are used in both light and commercial vehicles including off-highway applications. These include both pure electric applications as well as hybrid applications, where the electric motors are combined with traditional gasoline or diesel propulsion systems.

The Company sells new starters, alternators and hybrid electric motors to OEMs globally for factory installation on new vehicles, and remanufactured and new starters and alternators to heavy duty aftermarket customers outside of Europe and to OEMs for original equipment service. As a leading remanufacturer, BorgWarner obtains used starters and alternators, commonly referred to as cores, then disassembles, cleans, combines them with new subcomponents and reassembles them into saleable, finished products, which are tested to meet OEM requirements.

In 2017, the Company acquired Sevcon, Inc. ("Sevcon"), a global provider of electrification technologies, serving customers in the U.S., U.K., France, Germany, Italy, China and the Asia Pacific region. Principal products include motor controllers, battery chargers, and uninterrupted power source systems for electric and hybrid vehicles, industrial, medical and telecom applications. These products complement BorgWarner’s power electronics capabilities utilized to provide electrified propulsion solutions.

Joint Ventures

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had eight joint ventures in which it had a less-than-100% ownership interest. Results from the six joint ventures in which the Company is the majority owner are consolidated as part of the Company's results. Results from the two joint ventures in which the Company's effective ownership interest is 50% or less, were reported by the Company using the equity method of accounting. In 2019, the Company and Romeo Systems, Inc. formed a new joint venture, BorgWarner Romeo Power LLC (the "Romeo JV"), in which the Company owns a 60% interest. The Romeo JV focuses on producing battery module and pack technology.

8

Management of the unconsolidated joint ventures is shared with the Company's respective joint venture partners. Certain information concerning the Company's joint ventures is set forth below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)All sales figures are for the year ended December 31, 2019, except NSK-Warner and Turbo Energy Private Limited. NSK-Warner’s sales are reported for the 12 months ended November 30, 2019. Turbo Energy Private Limited’s sales are reported for the 12 months ended September 30, 2019.

(b)The Company made purchases from Turbo Energy Private Limited totaling $45 million, $42 million and $32 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company made purchases from NSK-Warner totaling $6 million, $10 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

(c)BorgWarner Inc. owns 50% of NSK-Warner, which has a 40% interest in BorgWarner Transmission Systems Korea Ltd. This gives the Company an additional indirect effective ownership percentage of 20%, resulting in a total effective ownership interest of 80%.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

Refer to Note 21, “Reporting Segments and Related Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for financial information about geographic areas. 

Product Lines and Customers

During the year ended December 31, 2019, approximately 83% of the Company's net sales were for light-vehicle applications; approximately 9% were for commercial vehicle applications; approximately 4% were for off-highway vehicle applications; and approximately 4% were to distributors of aftermarket replacement parts. 

The Company’s worldwide net sales to the following customers (including their subsidiaries) were approximately as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales in any of the years presented.

9

The Company's automotive products are generally sold directly to OEMs, substantially pursuant to negotiated annual contracts, long-term supply agreements or terms and conditions as may be modified by the parties. Deliveries are subject to periodic authorizations based upon OEM production schedules. The Company typically ships its products directly from its plants to the OEMs.

Sales and Marketing

Each of the Company's businesses within its two reporting segments has its own sales function. Account executives for each of our businesses are assigned to serve specific customers for one or more businesses' products. Our account executives spend the majority of their time in direct contact with customers' purchasing and engineering employees and are responsible for servicing existing business and for identifying and obtaining new business. Because of their close relationship with customers, account executives are able to identify and meet customers' needs based upon their knowledge of our products' design and manufacturing capabilities. Upon securing a new order, account executives participate in product launch team activities and serve as a key interface with customers. In addition, sales and marketing employees of our Engine and Drivetrain reporting segments often work together to explore cross-development opportunities where appropriate. 

Seasonality

Our operations are directly related to the automotive industry. Consequently, our Engine and Drivetrain segments may experience seasonal fluctuations to the extent automotive vehicle production slows, such as in the summer months when many customer plants typically close for model year changeovers or vacations. Historically, model changeovers or vacations have generally resulted in lower sales volume in the Company's third quarter.

Research and Development

The Company conducts advanced Engine and Drivetrain research. This advanced engineering function seeks to leverage know-how and expertise across product lines to create new Engine and Drivetrain systems and modules that can be commercialized. This function oversees the Company's investments in certain venture capital funds that provide seed money for start-up businesses developing new technologies pertinent to the automotive industry and the Company's propulsion strategies.

In addition, each of the Company's businesses within its two reporting segments has its own research and development (“R&D”) organization, including engineers and technicians, engaged in R&D activities at facilities worldwide. The Company also operates testing facilities such as prototype, measurement and calibration, life cycle testing and dynamometer laboratories.

By working closely with OEMs and anticipating their future product needs, the Company's R&D personnel conceive, design, develop and manufacture new proprietary automotive components and systems. R&D personnel also work to improve current products and production processes. The Company believes its commitment to R&D will allow it to continue to obtain new orders from its OEM customers.

The Company's net R&D expenditures are included in selling, general and administrative expenses of the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Customer reimbursements are netted against gross R&D expenditures as they are considered a recovery of cost. Customer reimbursements for prototypes are recorded net of prototype costs based on customer contracts, typically either when the prototype is shipped or when it is accepted by the customer. Customer reimbursements for engineering services are recorded when performance obligations are satisfied in accordance with the contract. Financial risks and rewards transfer upon shipment, acceptance of a prototype component by the customer or upon completion of the performance obligation as stated in the respective customer agreement. 

10

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net R&D expenditures as a percentage of net sales were 4.1%, 4.2% and 4.2% for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. None of the Company's R&D related contracts exceeded 5% of net R&D expenditures in any of the years presented.

Intellectual Property

The Company has approximately 6,430 active domestic and foreign patents and patent applications pending or under preparation and receives royalties from licensing patent rights to others. While it considers its patents on the whole to be important, the Company does not consider any single patent, any group of related patents or any single license essential to its operations in the aggregate or to the operations of any of the Company's business groups individually. The expiration of the patents individually and in the aggregate is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial position or future operating results. The Company owns numerous trademarks, some of which are valuable, but none of which are essential to its business in the aggregate.

The Company owns the “BorgWarner” trade name and numerous BORGWARNER trademarks, including without limitation "BORGWARNER" and "BORGWARNER and Bug Design", which are material to the Company's business. 

11

Competition

The Company's reporting segments compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Many of these competitors are larger and have greater resources than the Company. Technological innovation, application engineering development, quality, price, delivery and program launch support are the primary methods of competition.

The Company’s major non-OEM competitors by product type follow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, a number of the Company's major OEM customers manufacture, for their own use and for others, products that compete with the Company's products. Other current OEM customers could elect to manufacture products to meet their own requirements or to compete with the Company. There is no assurance that the Company's business will not be adversely affected by increased competition in the markets in which it operates.

For many of its products, the Company's competitors include suppliers in parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs, lower tax rates and, in some cases, export subsidies and/or raw materials subsidies. Also, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

12

Workforce

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had a salaried and hourly workforce of approximately 29,000 (as compared with approximately 30,000 at December 31, 2018), of which approximately 6,800 were in the U.S. Approximately 13% of the Company's U.S. workforce is unionized. The workforces at certain international facilities are also unionized. The Company believes the present relations with our workforce to be satisfactory.

We have one domestic collective bargaining agreement which is for one facility in New York, which expires in September 2020.

Raw Materials

The Company uses a variety of raw materials in the production of its products including aluminum, copper, nickel, plastic resins, steel and certain alloy elements. Manufacturing operations for each of the Company's operating segments are dependent upon natural gas, fuel oil and electricity.

The Company uses a variety of tactics to limit the impact of supply shortages and inflationary pressures. The Company's global procurement organization works to accelerate cost reductions, purchases from lower cost regions, optimize the supply base, mitigate risk and collaborate on its buying activities. In addition, the Company uses long-term contracts, cost sharing arrangements, design changes, customer buy programs and limited financial instruments to help control costs. The Company intends to use similar measures in 2020 and beyond. Refer to Note 11, “Financial Instruments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for information related to the Company's hedging activities. 

For 2020, the Company believes that its supplies of raw materials are adequate and available from multiple sources to support its manufacturing requirements.

Available Information

Through its Internet website (www.borgwarner.com), the Company makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished. The Company also makes the following documents available on its Internet website: the Audit Committee Charter; the Compensation Committee Charter; the Corporate Governance Committee Charter; the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Company's Code of Ethical Conduct; and the Company's Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers. You may also obtain a copy of any of the foregoing documents, free of charge, if you submit a written request to Investor Relations, 3850 Hamlin Road, Auburn Hills, Michigan 48326. The public may read and copy materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

13

Information About Executive Officers of the Company

Set forth below are the names, ages, positions and certain other information concerning the executive officers of the Company as of February 13, 2020.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mr. Lissalde has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since August 2018. He was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from January 2018 to July 2018. From May 2013 to December 2017, he was Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Turbo Systems LLC, a subsidiary.

Mr. Nowlan has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2019. He was Senior Vice President, President, Trailer, Components and Chief Financial Officer of Meritor, Inc., a commercial truck and industrial supplier, from March 2018 to March 2019. He was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Meritor, Inc. from May 2013 to March 2018. 

Ms. Calaway has been Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since August 2018. She was Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company from August 2016 to August 2018. She was Vice President of Human Resources of Harley-Davidson Inc., a motorcycle manufacturer, and President of The Harley-Davidson Foundation from February 2010 to July 2016. Since October 2019, Ms. Calaway has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Astronics Corporation, an aerospace and defense company.

Ms. Pryor has been Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since April 2019. She was Vice President of Human Resources of BorgWarner Ithaca LLC (d/b/a BorgWarner Morse Systems), a subsidiary, from October 2018 to March 2019. She was Global Human Resources Director - Global Personnel, Organization & Planning for Ford Motor Company, an automotive manufacturer, from January 2018 to October 2018. She was Vice President of Human Resources for Ford Motor Company - ASEAN Markets from August 2016 to January 2018. She was HR Director for Ford’s Research & Engineer Center located in Nanjing, China from August 2014 to August 2016.

Mr. Aaron has been Vice President and Treasurer since March 2019. He was Vice President of Finance of BorgWarner Ithaca LLC (d/b/a BorgWarner Morse Systems), a subsidiary, from December 2016 to February 2019. He was Director, Financial Reporting from August 2012 to November 2016.

Dr. Demmerle has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner PDS (USA) Inc. (formerly known as BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems Inc.), a subsidiary, since September 2012 and President and General Manager of BorgWarner PDS (Indiana) Inc. (formerly known as Remy International, Inc.), a subsidiary, since December 2015. 

14

Mr. Ericson has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Ithaca LLC (d/b/a BorgWarner Morse Systems), a subsidiary, since June 2019. He was the Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of the Company from January 2017 until June 2019. He was Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Emissions Systems LLC, a subsidiary, from March 2014 until December 2016, during which time BorgWarner BERU Systems GmbH was combined with BorgWarner Emissions Systems Inc. 

Mr. Fadool has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Emissions Systems LLC, BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc. and Turbo Systems LLC, subsidiaries of the Company, since October 2019. He was Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of Turbo Systems LLC, a subsidiary, from May 2019 to October 2019. He was Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Emissions Systems LLC and BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc., both subsidiaries, from January 2017 to May 2019. He was Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Ithaca LLC (d/b/a BorgWarner Morse Systems), a subsidiary, from July 2015 until December 2016. From May 2012 to July 2015, he was the Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Morse TEC Inc., a subsidiary. 

Mr. McGill has been Vice President and Controller since April 2019. He was Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer from January 2019 to April 2019. Additionally, he was the Treasurer of the Company from May 2012 to March 2019.

Dr. Weng has been Vice President of the Company and President and General Manager of BorgWarner Transmission Systems LLC since October 2019. He was President and General Manager for BorgWarner Emissions Systems LLC and BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc., both subsidiaries, from May 2019 to September 2019. He was Vice President and General Manager, Europe for BorgWarner Emissions Systems LLC and BorgWarner Thermal Systems Inc., both subsidiaries, from April 2017 to April 2019. He was Vice President and General Manager, Asia for Turbo Systems Systems LLC, a subsidiary, from July 2015 to April 2017. He was General Manager, China for Turbo Systems LLC, a subsidiary, from January 2013 to July 2015. 

Mr. Yilmaz has been Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since January 2018. He was Vice President, Global Head of Powertrain Systems and Advanced Engineering for Robert Bosch, a global supplier of technology and services, from May 2016 to December 2017. He was Vice President, Business Strategy and Strategic Marketing for Robert Bosch from January 2015 to April 2016. He was Vice President of Global Program Management and Engineering, for Robert Bosch from January 2013 to December 2014.

Item 1A. Risk Factors