PART I

ITEM 1. Business

OVERVIEW

We were founded in 1919 as Cummins Engine Company, a corporation in Columbus, Indiana and one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. In 2001, we changed our name to Cummins Inc. We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel, natural gas, electric and hybrid powertrains and powertrain-related components including filtration, aftertreatment, turbochargers, fuel systems, controls systems, air handling systems, automated transmissions, electric power generation systems, batteries, electrified power systems, hydrogen generation and fuel cell products. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors, dealers and other customers worldwide. We serve our customers through a network of approximately 600 wholly-owned, joint venture and independent distributor locations and over 7,600 Cummins certified dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories.

OPERATING SEGMENTS

We have five complementary operating segments: Engine, Distribution, Components, Power Systems and New Power. These segments share technology, customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network in order to compete more efficiently and effectively in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products compete primarily on the basis of performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality, customer support and price.

In November 2019, we renamed our Electrified Power segment as "New Power" in order to better represent the incorporation of fuel cell and hydrogen production technologies resulting from our acquisition of Hydrogenics Corporation. The New Power segment includes our electrified power, fuel cell and hydrogen production technologies.

We use segment earnings before interest expense, income taxes, noncontrolling interests, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) as the primary basis for the Chief Operating Decision Maker to evaluate the performance of each of our reportable operating segments. We believe EBITDA is a useful measure of our operating performance as it assists investors and debt holders in comparing our performance on a consistent basis without regard to financing methods, capital structure, income taxes or depreciation and amortization methods, which can vary significantly depending upon many factors.

Engine Segment

Engine segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________________________________________

(1) Measured before intersegment eliminations

Our Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas-powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, construction, mining, marine, rail, oil and gas, defense and agricultural markets. We manufacture a wide variety of engine products including:

•Engines with a displacement range of 2.8 to 15 liters and horsepower ranging from 48 to 715; and

•New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, primarily through our extensive distribution network.

Our Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets:

•Heavy-duty truck - We manufacture diesel and natural gas engines that range from 310 to 605 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide, primarily in North America, China and Australia. 

5
•Medium-duty truck and bus - We manufacture diesel and natural gas engines ranging from 130 to 450 horsepower serving medium-duty truck and bus customers worldwide, with key markets including North America, Latin America, China, Europe and India. Applications include pick-up, delivery and vocational trucks and school, transit and shuttle buses. We also provide diesel engines for Class A motor homes (RVs), primarily in North America. 

•Light-duty automotive (Pick-up and Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV)) - We manufacture 105 to 400 horsepower diesel engines, including engines for the pick-up truck market for Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (Chrysler) in North America and LCV markets in China, Europe and Latin America.

•Off-highway - We manufacture diesel engines that range from 48 to 715 horsepower serving key global markets including construction, mining, marine, rail, oil and gas, defense and agriculture and also the power generation business for standby, mobile and distributed power generation solutions throughout the world. 

The principal customers of our heavy-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR Inc. (PACCAR), Navistar International Corporation (Navistar) and Daimler Trucks North America (Daimler). The principal customers of our medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as Daimler, Navistar and PACCAR. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction, agricultural and marine equipment, including Hyundai Heavy Industries, Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group, Komatsu, John Deere, JLG Industries, Inc. and LiuGong. The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Volkswagen Caminhões e Ônibus, Gorkovsky Avtomobilny Zavod, Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., Ltd. and China National Heavy Duty Truck Group. The principal customer of our pick-up on-highway engines is Chrysler.

In the markets served by our Engine segment, we compete with independent engine manufacturers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products. Our primary competitors in North America are Daimler, Caterpillar Inc. (CAT), Volvo Powertrain, Ford Motor Company (Ford), Navistar, PACCAR and Hino Power. Our primary competitors in international markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market. Other engine manufacturers in international markets include Weichai Power Co. Ltd., Volvo AB (Volvo), Daimler AG, TRATON AG, Fiat Power Systems, Guangxi Yuchai Group, Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG, CAT, Yanmar Co., Ltd. and Deutz AG.

Distribution Segment

Distribution segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________________________________________

(1) Measured before intersegment eliminations

Our Distribution segment is the company’s primary sales, service, and support channel. The segment serves Cummins customers and certified dealers through a worldwide network of wholly owned, joint venture, and independent distribution locations. Wholly owned locations operate and serve markets in the eight geographic regions noted below. Joint venture locations serve markets in South America, Southeast Asia, India, Middle East and Africa; while independent distribution locations serve markets in these and other geographies. 

Distribution’s mission encompasses the sales and support of a wide range of products and services, including power generation systems, high-horsepower engines, heavy-duty and mid-range engines designed for on- and off-highway use, application engineering services, custom-designed assemblies, retail and wholesale aftermarket parts, and in-shop and field-based repair services. Our familiarity with our customers and our markets allows us to provide sales, service and support to meet our customers' needs. 

Our Distribution segment is organized and managed as eight geographic regions, including North America, Asia Pacific, Europe, China, Africa and Middle East, India, Russia and Latin America. Across these regions, our locations compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies that are listed as competitors of our Engine, Components or Power Systems segments. These competitors vary by geographical location and application market.

6
Components Segment 

Components segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________________________________________

(1) Measured before intersegment eliminations

Our Components segment supplies products which complement our Engine and Power Systems segments, including aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, transmissions, filtration products, electronics and fuel systems for commercial diesel and natural gas applications. We develop aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, fuel systems, transmissions and electronics to meet increasingly stringent emission and fuel economy standards. We manufacture filtration systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and medium-duty equipment, and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial vehicle applications.

Our Components segment is organized around the following businesses:

•Emission solutions - We are a global leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on and off-highway light, medium, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine markets. Aftertreatment is the mechanism used to convert engine emissions of criteria pollutants, such as particulate matter, nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons into harmless emissions. Our products include custom engineering systems and integrated controls, oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, selective catalytic reduction systems and engineered components, including dosers. Our emission solutions business primarily serves markets in North America, Europe, China, India, Brazil, Russia and Australia. We serve both OEM first fit and retrofit customers. 

•Turbo technologies - We design, manufacture and market turbochargers for light-duty, mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel markets with worldwide sales and distribution. We provide critical air handling technologies for engines to meet challenging performance requirements and worldwide emission standards. We primarily serve markets in North America, Europe, China, India, Brazil, Russia and Australia. 

•Filtration - We design, manufacture and sell filters, coolant and chemical products. Our filtration business offers over 8,300 products for first fit and aftermarket applications including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolants, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end-users. We support a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets including on and off-highway segments such as oil and gas, agriculture, mining, construction, power generation and marine. We produce and sell globally recognized Fleetguard® branded products in over 130 countries including countries in North America, Europe, South America, Asia and Africa. Fleetguard products are available through thousands of distribution points worldwide. 

•Electronics and fuel systems - We design and manufacture new, replacement and remanufactured fuel systems primarily for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engine applications, as well as develop and supply electronic control modules (ECMs), sensors and harnesses for the on-highway, off-highway and power generation applications. We primarily serve markets in North America, China, India and Europe. 

•Automated transmissions - We develop and supply automated transmissions for the heavy-duty commercial vehicle market. Formed in 2017, the Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies joint venture is a consolidated 50/50 joint venture between Cummins Inc. and Eaton Corporation Plc. and primarily serves the North American market.

Customers of our Components segment generally include our Engine, Distribution and Power Systems segments, joint ventures including Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd., Dongfeng Cummins Emission Solutions Co., Ltd. and Tata Cummins Ltd., truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of our Engine segment, such as PACCAR, Daimler, Navistar, Volvo, Komatsu, Scania, Chrysler and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms.

Our Components segment competes with other manufacturers of aftertreatment systems, filtration, turbochargers, fuel systems and transmissions. Our primary competitors in these markets include Robert Bosch GmbH, Donaldson Company, Inc., Parker Hannifin Corporation, Mann+Hummel Group, Garrett Motion, Inc., Borg-Warner Inc., Tenneco Inc., Eberspacher Holding GmbH & Co. KG, Denso Corporation, Allison Transmission and Aisin Seiki Co., Ltd.

7
Power Systems Segment 

Power Systems segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________________________________________

(1) Measured before intersegment eliminations

Our Power Systems segment is organized around the following product lines:

•Power generation - We design, manufacture, sell and support standby and prime power generators ranging from 2 kilowatts to 3.5 megawatts, as well as controls, paralleling systems and transfer switches, for applications such as consumer, commercial, industrial, data centers, health care, global rental business, telecommunications and waste water treatment plants. We also provide turnkey solutions for distributed generation and energy management applications using natural gas, diesel or biogas as a fuel.

•Industrial - We design, manufacture, sell and support diesel and natural gas high-speed, high-horsepower engines up to 5,500 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in the mining, rail, defense, oil and gas, and commercial marine applications throughout the world.

•Generator technologies - We design, manufacture, sell and support A/C generator/alternator products for internal consumption and for external generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford and AVK brands and range in output from 3 kilovolt-amperes (kVA) to 12,000 kVA. 

Our customer base for Power Systems offerings is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. India, China, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East are our largest geographic markets outside of North America. 

In the markets served by our Power Systems segment, we compete with a variety of independent engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products around the world. Our primary competitors are CAT, MTU (Rolls Royce Power Systems Group) and Kohler/SDMO (Kohler Group), but we also compete with INNIO, Generac, Mitsubishi (MHI) and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our alternator business competes globally with Leroy Somer (NIDEC), Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others. 

New Power Segment

The New Power segment designs, manufactures, sells and supports electrified power systems ranging from fully electric to hybrid along with innovative components and subsystems, including battery, fuel cell and hydrogen production technologies.

In the third quarter of 2019, we formed a joint venture with L'Air Liquide, S.A. via the purchase of Hydrogenics Corporation, which was consolidated and included in our New Power segment. See Note 21 "ACQUISITIONS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

We anticipate our customer base for New Power offerings will be highly diversified, representing multiple end markets with a broad range of application requirements. We have established relationships with Gillig for the urban bus market in North America, Blue Bird for the school bus market in North America, Alstom Transport in Europe for PEM fuel cell powered regional commuter trains and L'Air Liquide S.A. for on-site hydrogen generation. We will continue to pursue additional relationships in markets as they adopt electric solutions, including, but not limited to, pick-up and delivery applications and industrial markets.

In the markets served by our New Power segment, we compete with electric start-ups, powertrain component manufacturers and vertically integrated OEMs. Our primary competitors include Proterra, Inc., Daimler, PACCAR, Volvo, Navistar, TRATON AG, BYD Company Limited, Dana Incorporated, Akasol AG and Ballard Power Systems, Inc.

JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES

We have entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own controlling interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries.

8
In the event of a change of control of either party to certain of these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies.

Financial information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our equity income from these investees was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________________________________________________

(1) Tax legislation passed in December 2017 decreased our equity earnings at certain equity investees by $39 million due to withholding tax adjustments on foreign earnings and remeasurement of deferred taxes. See Note 5, "INCOME TAXES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

(2) This total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To see how this amount reconciles to "Equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in the Consolidated Statements of Net Income, see Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Manufacturing Entities

Our manufacturing joint ventures have generally been formed with customers and are primarily intended to allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Systems segment manufacturing facilities. Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly owned entities provide electronics, fuel systems, filtration, aftertreatment systems, turbocharger products and automated transmissions that are used with our engines as well as some competitors' products. The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have 50 percent or less ownership interest (except for Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies joint venture which is consolidated due to our majority voting interest) discussed below are included in “Equity, royalty and interest income from investees” and “Investments and advances related to equity method investees” in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. - Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd. This joint venture manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China. 

Distribution Entity

Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. - Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in Chile and Peru. See further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above.

Non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries

We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in India. CIL produces mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, generators for the Indian and export markets and natural gas spark-ignited engines for power generation, automotive and industrial applications. CIL also has distribution and power generation operations.

In the third quarter of 2017, we formed the Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies joint venture, which was consolidated and included in our Components segment as the automated transmissions business. See Note 21, "ACQUISITIONS", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

In the third quarter of 2019, we formed a joint venture with L'Air Liquide S.A. via the purchase of Hydrogenics Corporation, which was consolidated and included in our New Power segment. See Note 21, "ACQUISITIONS", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

SUPPLY

The performance of the end-to-end supply chain, extending through to our suppliers, is foundational to our ability to meet customers' expectations and support long-term growth. We are committed to having a robust strategy for how we select and manage our suppliers to enable a market focused supply chain. This requires us to continuously evaluate and upgrade our supply base, as necessary, to ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers.

We use a category strategy process (a process designed to create the most value for the company) that reviews our long-term needs and guides decisions on what we make internally and what we purchase externally. For the items we decide to purchase externally, the strategies also identify the suppliers we should partner with long-term to provide the best technology, the lowest total cost and highest supply chain performance. We design and/or manufacture our strategic components used in or with our engines and power generation units, including cylinder blocks and heads, turbochargers, connecting rods, camshafts, crankshafts, filters, alternators, electronic and emissions controls, automated transmissions and fuel systems. We source externally purchased material and manufactured components from leading global suppliers. Many key suppliers are managed through long-term supply agreements that assure capacity, delivery, quality and cost requirements are met over an extended period. Approximately 19 percent of the direct material in our product designs are single sourced to external suppliers. We have an established sourcing strategy and supplier management process to evaluate and mitigate risk. These processes are leading us to determine our need for dual sourcing and increase our use of dual and parallel sources to minimize risk and increase supply chain responsiveness. Our current target for dual and parallel sourcing is approximately 90 percent of our direct material spend. As of December 31, 2019, our analysis indicates that we have approximately 81 percent of direct material spend with dual or parallel sources.

Other important elements of our sourcing strategy include:

•working with suppliers to measure and improve their environmental footprint;

•selecting and managing suppliers to comply with our supplier code of conduct; and

•assuring our suppliers comply with Cummins' prohibited and restricted materials policy.

10
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks were granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents or trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is significant to our business.

SEASONALITY

While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal variation in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exceptions that our Power Systems segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in construction spending during this period.

LARGEST CUSTOMERS

We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them. PACCAR is our largest customer, accounting for 17 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019, 15 percent in 2018 and 14 percent in 2017. We have long-term supply agreements with PACCAR for our heavy-duty and mid-range engines. While a significant number of our sales to PACCAR are under long-term supply agreements, these agreements provide for particular engine requirements for specific vehicle models and not a specific volume of engines. PACCAR is our only customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our net sales in 2019. The loss of this customer or a significant decline in the production level of PACCAR vehicles that use our engines would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have been an engine supplier to PACCAR for 75 years. A summary of principal customers for each operating segment is included in our segment discussion.

In addition to our agreement with PACCAR, we have long-term heavy-duty and medium-duty engine supply agreements with Navistar and Daimler. We also have an agreement with Chrysler to supply engines for its Ram trucks. Collectively, our net sales to these four customers, including PACCAR, were 37 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019, 35 percent in 2018 and 33 percent in 2017. Excluding PACCAR, net sales to any single customer were less than 9 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019, less than 9 percent in 2018 and less than 7 percent in 2017. These agreements contain standard purchase and sale agreement terms covering engine and engine parts pricing, quality and delivery commitments, as well as engineering product support obligations. The basic nature of our agreements with OEM customers is that they are long-term price and operations agreements that help assure the availability of our products to each customer through the duration of the respective agreements. Agreements with most OEMs contain bilateral termination provisions giving either party the right to terminate in the event of a material breach, change of control or insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party. 

BACKLOG

We have supply agreements with some truck and off-highway equipment OEMs, however most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders. These open orders are historically subject to month-to-month releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm. At December 31, 2019, we did not have any significant backlogs. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

In 2019, we continued to invest in future critical technologies and products. We will continue to make investments to develop new products and improve our current technologies to meet future emission requirements around the world and improve fuel economy performance of diesel and natural gas-powered engines and related components as well as development activities around fully electric, hybrid and hydrogen power solutions.

Our research and development program is focused on product improvements, product extensions, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. Research and development expenditures include salaries, contractor fees, building costs, utilities, testing, technical IT, administrative expenses and allocation of corporate costs and are expensed, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred. From time to time, we enter into agreements with customers and government agencies to fund a portion of the research and development costs of a particular project. When not associated with a sales contract, we generally account for these reimbursements as an offset to the related research and development expenditure. Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $998 million in 2019, $894 million in 2018 and $734 million in 2017. Contract reimbursements were $90 million, $120 million and $137 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

11
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY

We adopted our comprehensive environmental sustainability plan in 2014 after examining our entire environmental footprint, focusing on the key areas of water, waste, energy and greenhouse gases (GHG). As the concept and scope of environmental sustainability has matured and broadened, leaders have moved from initially working on environmental impacts within our direct control in our operations to an expanded view of fuel and raw materials that reaches across the entire product life-cycle from design to manufacture to end of life. Our environmental sustainability plan is the way we carry out our priorities, goals and initiatives in our action areas, including reducing our carbon footprint, using fewer natural resources and partnering to solve complex problems.

The highest level of accountability for Cummins’ climate-related risks and opportunities is with the Safety, Environment and Technology (SET) committee of the Board of Directors (the Board). The Action Committee for Environmental Sustainability meets monthly and reports to the Chairman and to the SET committee at least annually.

Our Sustainability Progress Report for 2018/2019 includes goal progress and other key environmental and climate metrics and targets. This and prior reports as well as a Data Book of more detailed environmental data in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative's Standard core compliance designation are available on our website at www.cummins.com. Our annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for climate change and water are also available on the website. The climate submission provides information on our scenario planning exercise for climate and other risks as requested by CDP. These reports and data book are not incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference. We currently report on the following environmental sustainability goals and commitments from our 2014 plan:

•a product vision statement — "powering the future through product innovation that makes people's lives better and reduces our environmental footprint;"

•partnering with customers to improve the fuel efficiency of our products in use, targeting an annual run-rate reduction of 3.5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide;

•achieving a 32 percent energy intensity reduction from company facilities by the end of 2020 (using a baseline year of 2010) and increasing the portion of electricity we use derived from renewable sources;

•reducing direct water use by 50 percent adjusted for hours worked and achieving water neutrality at 15 sites by the end of 2020;

•increasing our recycling rate from 88 percent to 95 percent and achieving zero disposal at 30 sites by the end of 2020; and 

•utilizing the most efficient methods and modes to move goods across our network to reduce carbon dioxide per kilogram of goods moved by 10 percent by the end of 2020. 

We continue to articulate our positions on key public policy issues and on a wide range of environmental issues. We are actively engaged with regulatory, industry and other stakeholder groups around the world as GHG and fuel efficiency standards become more prevalent globally. We were named number 17 in Newsweek's 2019 Green Ranking of U.S. companies, number 14 among Barron's Top 100 Most Sustainable Companies as well as named to the Dow Jones North American Sustainability Index for the fourteenth consecutive year in 2019. 

In late 2019, Cummins introduced PLANET 2050, a sustainability strategy focused on three priority areas: addressing climate change and air emissions, using natural resources in the most sustainable way and improving communities. It includes eight specific goals to achieve by 2030, as well as aspirational targets for 2050. Cummins is currently evaluating how the new goals will be integrated into business planning and will report on progress beginning in 2022.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Product Certification and Compliance

Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing emission and noise. Over the past several years we have substantially increased our global environmental compliance presence and expertise to understand and meet emerging product environmental regulations around the world. Our ability to comply with these and future emission standards is an essential element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these standards. 

12
Following conversations with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and California Air Resources Board (CARB) regarding certification for the engines in the 2019 RAM 2500 and 3500 trucks, we made the decision to review our certification process and compliance with emission standards. This review is being conducted with external advisers to ensure the certification and all of our processes for our pick-up truck applications are consistent with our internal policies, engineering standards and applicable laws. In addition, we voluntarily disclosed our formal internal review to our regulators and other agencies and have been working cooperatively with them to ensure a complete and thorough review.

We strive to be a leader in developing and implementing technologies that provide customers with the highest performing products that also have the least impact on the environment and have a long history of working with governments and regulators to achieve these goals. We remain committed to ensuring that our products meet all current and future emission standards and delivering value to our customers.

On October 17, 2019, the Board approved the creation of a new Product Compliance and Regulatory Affairs Organization to lead engine emission certification and compliance and regulatory affairs. This new organization is led by the Vice President - Product Compliance and Regulatory Affairs who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer, and the new Vice President joins the Cummins Executive Team and Cummins Leadership Team. The focus of this new organization will be to strengthen our ability to design great products that help our customers win while ensuring compliance with increasingly challenging global emission regulations. The organization will also work to enhance our collaboration with the agencies that set the direction and regulations of emissions to best ensure we are meeting every expectation today while planning ahead for future changes.

EU and EPA Engine Certifications

The current on-highway NOx and PM emission standards came into effect in the EU on January 1, 2013, (Euro VI) and on January 1, 2010, for the EPA. To meet these regulations we used an evolution of our proven selective catalytic reduction (SCR) and exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) technology solutions and refined them for the EU and EPA certified engines to maintain power and torque with substantial fuel economy improvement and maintenance intervals comparable with our previous compliant engines. We offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet the near-zero emission standards. Mid-range and heavy-duty engines for EU and EPA require NOx aftertreatment. NOx reduction is achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised of the XPI High Pressure Common Rail fuel system, SCR technology, next-generation cooled EGR, advanced electronic controls, proven air handling and the Cummins Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). The EU, EPA and CARB have certified that our engines meet the current emission requirements. Emission standards in international markets, including Japan, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, Russia, India and China are becoming more stringent. We believe that our experience in meeting the EU and EPA emission standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these markets as the need for emission control capability grows.

In 2013, we certified to EPA's first ever GHG regulations for on-highway medium and heavy-duty engines. Additionally, the EPA 2013 regulations added the requirement of on-board diagnostics, which were introduced on the ISX 15 in 2010, across the full on-highway product line while maintaining the same near-zero emission levels of NOx and particulate matter required in 2010. On-board diagnostics provide enhanced service capability with standardized diagnostic trouble codes, service tool interface, in-cab warning lamp and service information availability. The new GHG and fuel-efficiency regulations were required for all heavy-duty diesel and natural gas engines beginning in January 2014. Our GHG certification was the first engine certificate issued by the EPA and uses the same proven base engine with the XPI fuel system, variable geometry turbocharger (VGTTM) and Cummins aftertreatment system with DPF and SCR technology. Application of these engines and aftertreatment technologies continues in our products that comply with the 2017 GHG regulations.

The current EPA Tier 4 off-highway emission standards came into effect between the 2013 - 2015 time frame for all power categories. The current EU Stage V off-highway emission standards became effective in 2019 for certain power categories and are expected to be completely effective by January 2021 for all remaining categories. Engines designed for Tier 4 / Stage V standards were based on our extensive on-highway experience developing SCR, high pressure fuel systems, DPF and VGTTM. Our products offer low fuel consumption, high torque rise and power output, extended maintenance intervals, reliable and durable operation and a long life to overhaul period, all while meeting the most stringent emission standards in the industrial market. Our off-highway products power multiple applications including construction, mining, marine, agriculture, rail, defense and oil and gas and serve a global customer base.

13
Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a substantial portion of our annual expenses and are not expected to be material in 2020. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations applicable to our plants and operations.

In the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or similar state laws, at fewer than 20 waste disposal sites. 

Based upon our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be material. We have established accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future liability with respect to these sites. In addition, we have several other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects. The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be material.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 61,615 persons worldwide. Approximately 19,048 of our employees worldwide are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2020 and 2024.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that Cummins files electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.

Our internet site is www.cummins.com. You can access our Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "About" followed by the "Investor Overview" link. We make available, free of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

We also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access our Governance Documents webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "About" followed by "Corporate Governance" and then the "Cummins Governance Documents" link. Code of Conduct, Committee Charters and other governance documents are included at this site. Our Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work. It also applies to the employees of any entity owned or controlled by us. We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (NYSE), on our internet site. The information on our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.

14
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Following are the names and ages of our executive officers, their positions with us at January 31, 2020 and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience:

Name and Age 

Present Cummins Inc. position and

year appointed to position 

Principal position during the past

five years other than Cummins Inc.

position currently held

N. Thomas Linebarger (57) Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (2012)  

Livingston L. Satterthwaite (59) President and Chief Operating Officer (2019) 

Vice President and President—Distribution Business (2015-2019)

Vice President and President—Power Generation (2008-2015)

Sherry A. Aaholm (57) Vice President—Chief Information Officer (2013)  

Peter W. Anderson (53) Vice President—Global Supply Chain and Manufacturing (2017) Principal/Partner—Ernst & Young LLP (2006-2017)

Sharon R. Barner (62) Vice President—General Counsel (2012)  

Steven M. Chapman (65) Group Vice President—China and Russia (2009)  

Christopher C. Clulow (48) Vice President—Corporate Controller (2017) Controller—Components Segment (2015-2017)

Executive Director—Heavy, Medium and Light-Duty Finance (2011-2015)

Jill E. Cook (56) Vice President—Chief Human Resources Officer (2003)  

Tracy A. Embree (46) Vice President and President— Distribution Business (2019) Vice President and President— Components Group (2015-2019)

Thaddeus B. Ewald (52) Vice President—Corporate Strategy and Business Development (2010)  

Walter J. Fier (55) Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2019) Vice President—Engineering, Engine Business (2015-2019)

Donald G. Jackson (50) Vice President—Treasurer (2015) Executive Director—Assistant Treasurer (2013-2015)

Melina M. Kennedy (50) Vice President—Product Compliance and Regulatory Affairs (2019) 

Executive Director—Pick-up Truck, Engine Business (2018-2019)

Executive Director—Rail & Defense (2017-2018)

General Manager—Rail & Defense (2014-2017)

Norbert Nusterer (51) Vice President and President—Power Systems (2016) Vice President—New and ReCon Parts (2011-2016)

Mark J. Osowick (52) Vice President—Human Resources Operations (2014)  

Srikanth Padmanabhan (55) Vice President and President—Engine Business (2016) Vice President—Engine Business (2014-2016)

Marya M. Rose (57) Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer (2011)  

Jennifer Rumsey (46) Vice President and President—Components Group (2019) 

Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2015-2019)

Vice President—Engineering, Engine Business (2014-2015)

15
Mark A. Smith (52) Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2019) 

Vice President—Financial Operations (2016-2019)

Vice President—Investor Relations and Business Planning and Analysis (2014-2016)

Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is elected annually by the Board and holds office until the meeting of the Board at which his election is next considered. Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and CEO, are ratified by the Board and hold office for such period as the Chairman and CEO or the Board may prescribe.

16
ITEM 1A. Risk Factors