PART I 

Item 1. Business 

OVERVIEW

General

Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation established in 1994 and headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a diversified financial services holding company with banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company” or “Capital One”) offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients through digital channels, branches, Cafés and other distribution channels. 

As of December 31, 2019, our principal subsidiaries included:

•Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (“COBNA”), which offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products; and

•Capital One, National Association (“CONA”), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients.

The Company is hereafter collectively referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.” COBNA and CONA are collectively referred to as the “Banks.” References to “this Report” or our “2019 Form 10-K” or “2019 Annual Report” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. All references to 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015, refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2019, December 31, 2018, December 31, 2017, December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the “MD&A—Glossary and Acronyms” and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.

As one of the nation’s ten largest banks based on deposits as of December 31, 2019, we service banking customer accounts through digital channels, as well as through branch locations, ATMs and Cafés. We also operate as one of the largest online direct banks in the United States (“U.S.”) by deposits. In addition to bank lending, treasury management and depository services, we offer credit and debit card products, auto loans and other consumer lending products in markets across the U.S. We were the third largest issuer of Visa® (“Visa”) and MasterCard® (“MasterCard”) credit cards in the U.S. based on the outstanding balance of credit card loans as of December 31, 2019.

We also offer products outside of the U.S. principally through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), an indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada. Both COEP and our branch of COBNA in Canada have the authority to provide credit card loans.

Business Developments

We regularly explore and evaluate opportunities to acquire financial services and products as well as financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. We also explore opportunities to acquire technology companies and related assets to improve our information technology infrastructure and to deliver on our digital strategy. We may issue equity or debt to fund our acquisitions. In addition, we regularly consider the potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, partnership agreements or lines of business. 

On September 24, 2019, we launched a new credit card issuance program with Walmart Inc. (“Walmart”) and are now the exclusive issuer of Walmart’s cobrand and private label credit card program in the U.S. On October 11, 2019, we completed the acquisition of the existing portfolio of Walmart’s cobrand and private label credit card receivables (“Walmart acquisition”). As of the acquisition date, we added approximately $8.1 billion to our domestic credit card loans held for investment portfolio. 

In the second quarter of 2019, we made the decision to exit several small partnership portfolios in our Credit Card business. We sold approximately $900 million of receivables and transferred approximately $100 million to loans held for sale as of June 30, 2019, which resulted in a gain on sale of $49 million recognized in other non-interest income and an allowance release of $68 million.

 4Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Cybersecurity Incident 

On July 29, 2019, we announced there was unauthorized access by an outside individual who obtained certain types of personal information relating to people who had applied for our credit card products and to our credit card customers (the “Cybersecurity Incident”). The Cybersecurity Incident occurred on March 22 and 23, 2019. We believe the individual was able to exploit a specific configuration vulnerability in our infrastructure. We immediately fixed the configuration vulnerability that this individual exploited and verified there are no other instances in our environment. The person responsible was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on July 29, 2019 and federal prosecution of the responsible person has commenced. The U.S. Attorney’s Office has stated they believe the data has been recovered and that there is no evidence the data was used for fraud or shared by this individual.  

This event affected approximately 100 million individuals in the United States and approximately 6 million in Canada. We believe no credit card account numbers or log-in credentials were compromised. The largest category of information accessed was information on consumers and small businesses as of the time they applied for one of our credit card products from 2005 through early 2019. This information included personal information that we routinely collect at the time we receive credit card applications, including names, addresses, zip codes/postal codes, phone numbers, email addresses, dates of birth, and self-reported income. In addition to credit card application data, the individual also obtained portions of credit card customer data, including customer status data (e.g., credit scores, credit limits, balances, payment history, contact information) and fragments of transaction data from a total of 23 days during 2016, 2017 and 2018. Approximately 120,000 Social Security numbers of our credit card customers and approximately 80,000 linked bank account numbers of our secured credit card customers were compromised in this incident. For our Canadian credit card customers, approximately 1 million Social Insurance Numbers were compromised in this incident. 

We provided required notification to affected individuals and made free credit monitoring and identity protection available. We retained a leading independent cybersecurity firm that confirmed we correctly identified and fixed the specific configuration vulnerability exploited in the Cybersecurity Incident. 

During the year, we incurred $72 million of incremental expenses related to the remediation of and response to the Cybersecurity Incident, largely driven by customer notifications, credit monitoring, technology costs, and professional support, offset by $34 million of insurance recoveries pursuant to our insurance coverage described below. These amounts were treated as adjusting items as it relates to our financial results (“Cyber Adjusting Items”). We expect to be at the low end of the $100 million to $150 million range previously disclosed for the total amount of Cyber Adjusting Items and expect that some of these costs will extend beyond 2019. 

We carry insurance to cover certain costs associated with a cyber risk event. This insurance has a total coverage limit of $400 million and is subject to a $10 million deductible, which was met in the third quarter of 2019, as well as standard exclusions. We continue to expect that a significant portion of the Cyber Adjusting Items will be covered by insurance. Insurance reimbursements will also be treated as adjusting items, and the timing of recognizing insurance reimbursements may differ from the timing of recognizing the associated expenses.

We continue to invest significantly in cybersecurity and expect to make additional investments as we continue to assess our cybersecurity program. These estimated investments are in addition to the estimated Cyber Adjusting Items and we expect to absorb them within our existing operating efficiency ratio guidance.

Although the ultimate magnitude and timing of expenses or other impacts to our business or reputation related to the Cybersecurity Incident are uncertain, they may be significant, and some of the costs may not be covered by insurance. However, we do not believe that this incident will negatively impact our strategy or our long-term financial health. For more information, see “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.”

Our reported results excluding adjusting items, including the Cyber Adjusting Items, and our existing operating efficiency ratio guidance represent non-GAAP measures which we believe help users of our financial information understand the impact of these adjusting items on our reported results as well as provide an alternate measurement of our operating performance.

 5Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Additional Information

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “COF” and is included in the Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 100 Index. We maintain a website at www.capitalone.com. Documents available under Corporate Governance in the Investor Relations section of our website include:

•our Code of Conduct;

•our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and

•charters for the Audit, Compensation, Governance and Nominating, and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors.

These documents also are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy. We intend to disclose future amendments to certain provisions of our Code of Conduct, and waivers of our Code of Conduct granted to executive officers and directors, on the website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver.

In addition, we make available free of charge through our website all of our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the SEC at www.sec.gov.

OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Our consolidated total net revenues are derived primarily from lending to consumer and commercial customers net of funding costs associated with our deposits, long-term debt and other borrowings. We also earn non-interest income which primarily consists of interchange income, net of reward expenses, service charges and other customer-related fees. Our expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating expenses, marketing expenses and income taxes.

Our principal operations are organized for management reporting purposes into three major business segments, which are defined primarily based on the products and services provided or the types of customers served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio, asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group and residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments, are included in the Other category.

•Credit Card: Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, and international card businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom. 

•Consumer Banking: Consists of our deposit gathering and lending activities for consumers and small businesses, and national auto lending. 

•Commercial Banking: Consists of our lending, deposit gathering, capital markets and treasury management services to commercial real estate and commercial and industrial customers. Our commercial and industrial customers typically include companies with annual revenues between $20 million and $2 billion.

Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. In our Credit Card business, we experience fluctuations in purchase volume and the level of outstanding loan receivables due to seasonal variances in consumer spending and payment patterns which, for example, are highest around the winter holiday season. Net charge-off rates for our credit card loan portfolio also have historically exhibited seasonal patterns as well and generally tend to be the highest in the first quarter of the year. No individual quarter in 2019, 2018 or 2017 accounted for more than 30% of our total revenues in any of these fiscal years. 

For additional information on our business segments, including the financial performance of each business, see “Part II—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)—Executive Summary and Business Outlook,” “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance” and “Note 17—Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers” of this Report.

 6Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
COMPETITION

Each of our business segments operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services.

Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa and MasterCard credit cards, as well as with American Express®, Discover Card®, private-label card brands, and, to a certain extent, issuers of debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit, reward programs and other product features.

Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national, state and direct banks for deposits, commercial and auto loans, as well as with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. Our competitors also include automotive finance companies, commercial mortgage banking companies and other financial services providers that provide loans, deposits, and other similar services and products. In addition, we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer these products and services. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. In addition, competition among direct banks is intense because online banking provides customers the ability to rapidly deposit and withdraw funds and open and close accounts in favor of products and services offered by competitors.

Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Competition varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain our associates and on our reputation. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

General

Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company (“BHC”) and a financial holding company (“FHC”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”), and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including approval requirements for investments in or acquisitions of banking organizations, capital adequacy standards and limitations on nonbanking activities. As a BHC and FHC, we are subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, an FHC is permitted to engage in activities considered to be financial in nature (including, for example, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking activities), incidental to financial activities or, if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general, activities complementary to financial activities.

To become and remain eligible for FHC status, a BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions must meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. Failure to meet such criteria could result, depending on which requirements were not met, in restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions or being required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for BHCs.

The Banks are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States and the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to applicable limits. The Banks are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the FDIC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”).

We are also registered as a financial institution holding company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and, as such, we are subject to periodic examination by the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions. We also face regulation in the international 

 7Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See “Regulation of Businesses by Authorities Outside the United States” below for additional details.

Regulation of Business Activities

The business activities of the Company and the Banks are also subject to regulation and supervision under various laws and regulations.

Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities

The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including, for example, the Truth in Lending Act (“TILA”), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the CRA, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and the Military Lending Act, as well as under various state laws. TILA, as amended, imposes a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees, requires that a consumer’s ability to pay be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits, and imposes revised disclosures required for open-end credit.

Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators may be authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order banks to compensate customers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws may also affect the ability of a bank, including the Banks, to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers.

Debit Interchange Fees

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. Rules adopted by the Federal Reserve to implement these requirements limit interchange fees per debit card transaction to $0.21 plus five basis points of the transaction amount and provide for an additional $0.01 fraud prevention adjustment to the interchange fee for issuers that meet certain fraud prevention requirements.

Privacy

We are subject to multiple federal and state laws concerning data privacy, such as the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act. This area has seen increasing legislative and regulatory activity. For example, in 2018, the State of California passed the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which creates obligations on covered companies to, among other things, share certain information they have collected about individuals who are California residents with those individuals, subject to some exceptions. The California Attorney General has received public comment on the proposed regulations and is expected to issue final CCPA regulations in the first half of 2020. We have analyzed the CCPA and determined its initial applicability to our business. We will review the final CCPA regulations and determine their impact to our business while we continue to monitor data privacy legal developments in other jurisdictions.

Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001

The Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (“Patriot Act”) require financial institutions, among other things, to implement a risk-based program reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and to combat the financing of terrorism, including through suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting, compliance, record-keeping and customer due diligence.

The Patriot Act also contains financial transparency laws and provides enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms to the U.S. government, including due diligence and record-keeping requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to produce certain records upon request of a regulator or law enforcement agency; and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement agencies in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering and other crimes.

Funding

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), as discussed in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile,” only well capitalized and adequately capitalized institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately capitalized institutions, however, must obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting brokered deposits, and such institutions may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity obtained from the institution’s normal market area or, for deposits obtained from outside the institution’s normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity. The 

 8Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
FDIC is authorized to terminate a bank’s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank’s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance would likely have a material adverse effect on a bank’s liquidity and earnings.

Nonbank Activities

Certain of our nonbank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities. United Income, Inc. is an investment adviser registered with the SEC and regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Capital One Securities, Inc. and KippsDeSanto & Company are registered broker-dealers regulated by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject, among other things, to net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and to keep a substantial portion of their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of a broker-dealer to transfer capital to its parent companies and other affiliates. Broker-dealers are also subject to regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.

Derivatives Activities

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC have jointly issued final rules further defining the Dodd-Frank Act’s “swap dealer” definitions. Based on these rules, no Capital One entity is currently required to register with the CFTC or SEC as a swap dealer. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires all swap market participants to keep certain swap transaction records and report pertinent information to swap data repositories on a real-time and on-going basis. Further, each swap, group, category, type or class of swap that the CFTC or SEC determines must be cleared through a derivatives clearinghouse (unless the swap is eligible for a clearing exemption) must also be executed on a designated contract market (“DCM”), exchange or swap execution facility (“SEF”), unless no DCM, exchange or SEF has made the swap available for trading.

Volcker Rule

We and each of our subsidiaries, including the Banks, are subject to the “Volcker Rule,” a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that contains prohibitions on proprietary trading and certain investments in, and relationships with, covered funds (hedge funds, private equity funds and similar funds), subject to certain exemptions, in each case as the applicable terms are defined in the Volcker Rule and the implementing regulations. The implementing regulations also require that we establish and maintain a compliance program designed to ensure adherence with the requirements of the regulations.

Capital and Liquidity Regulation

The Company and the Banks are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve and OCC. For a further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see “MD&A—Capital Management,” “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile” and “Note 11—Regulatory and Capital Adequacy.”

Basel III and United States Capital Rules

The Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC (collectively, the “Federal Banking Agencies”) have issued regulations (“Basel III Capital Rule”) that implement certain capital and liquidity requirements published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel Committee”), along with certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions. The Basel III Capital Rule includes the “Basel III Standardized Approach” and the “Basel III Advanced Approaches.” Prior to January 1, 2020, the Basel III Advanced Approaches were mandatory for institutions with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or total consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more. The Basel III Capital Rule revised the definition of regulatory capital, established a new common equity Tier 1 capital requirement, set higher minimum capital ratio requirements, and introduced a capital conservation buffer of 2.5%, a supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%, and a countercyclical capital buffer (currently set at 0.0%). Compliance with the Basel III Capital Rule went into effect for Capital One beginning on January 1, 2014, with certain provisions becoming effective later according to various start dates and phase-in periods that ended January 1, 2019.

In October 2019, the Federal Banking Agencies amended the Basel III Capital Rule to provide for tailored application of certain capital requirements across different categories of banking institutions (“Tailoring Rules”). These categories are determined primarily by an institution’s asset size, with adjustments to a more stringent category possible if the institution exceeds certain 

 9Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
other risk-based thresholds. As a BHC with total consolidated assets of at least $250 billion that does not exceed any of the applicable risk-based thresholds, we are a Category III institution under the Tailoring Rules. Therefore, we are no longer subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches and certain associated capital requirements, such as the requirement to include in regulatory capital certain elements of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), although we will remain subject to the countercyclical capital buffer and supplementary leverage ratio, which were previously required only for Basel III Advanced Approaches institutions.

In July 2019, the Federal Banking Agencies finalized certain changes to the Basel III Capital Rule for institutions not subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches, including Capital One (“Capital Simplification Rule”). These changes, effective January 1, 2020, generally raise the threshold above which covered institutions must deduct certain assets from their common equity Tier 1 capital, including certain deferred tax assets, mortgage servicing assets, and investments in unconsolidated financial institutions. We anticipate that the Tailoring Rules and Capital Simplification Rule will, taken together, decrease our capital requirements.

Global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”) that are based in the U.S. are subject to an additional common equity Tier 1 capital requirement (“G-SIB Surcharge”). We are not a G-SIB based on the most recent available data and thus we are not subject to a G-SIB Surcharge.

In December 2018, the Federal Banking Agencies issued a final rule to address regulatory capital treatment of credit loss allowances under the current expected credit loss (“CECL”) model. The CECL model became applicable to Capital One as of January 1, 2020. The rule (“CECL Capital Rule”) revises the Federal Banking Agencies’ regulatory capital rules to identify which credit loss allowances under the CECL model are eligible for inclusion in regulatory capital and to provide banking organizations the option to phase in over a three-year transition period ending January 1, 2023 the day-one adverse effects on regulatory capital that may result from the adoption of the CECL model (“CECL Transition Election”). We intend to make the CECL Transition Election beginning in the first quarter of 2020.

Market Risk Rule

The “Market Risk Rule” supplements the Basel III Capital Rule by requiring institutions subject to the Market Risk Rule to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading portfolios. The Market Risk Rule generally applies to institutions with aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to the lesser of:

•10% or more of total assets; or

•$1 billion or more.

As of December 31, 2019, the Company and CONA are subject to the Market Risk Rule. See “MD&A—Market Risk Profile” below for additional information.

Basel III and United States Liquidity Rules

The Basel Committee has published a liquidity framework that includes two standards for liquidity risk supervision. One standard, the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), seeks to promote short-term resilience by requiring organizations to hold sufficient high-quality liquid assets to survive a stress scenario lasting for 30 days. The other standard, the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), seeks to promote longer-term resilience by requiring sufficient stable funding over a one-year period based on the liquidity characteristics of its assets and activities.

The Company and the Banks are subject to the LCR as implemented by the Federal Reserve and OCC (“LCR Rule”). The LCR Rule requires the Company and each of the Banks to hold an amount of eligible high-quality liquid assets (“HQLA”) that equals or exceeds 100% of their respective projected adjusted net cash outflows over a 30-day period, each as calculated in accordance with the LCR Rule. The LCR Rule requires us to calculate the LCR daily. In addition, the Company is required to make quarterly public disclosures of its LCR and certain related quantitative liquidity metrics, along with a qualitative discussion of its LCR. 

Under the Tailoring Rules, as a Category III institution with less than $75 billion in weighted average short-term wholesale funding, the Company’s and the Banks’ total net cash outflows are multiplied by an outflow adjustment percentage of 85%. We expect this outflow adjustment to materially increase the LCR for the Banks but not for the Company. The LCR Rule restricts the amount of HQLA held at the Banks in excess of the Banks’ total net cash outflow amount that can be included in the Company’s HQLA amount (referred to as “Trapped Liquidity”). Therefore, although we typically manage Bank-level LCRs at a level well above the regulatory minimum of 100%, the amount of Trapped Liquidity will also increase as the Banks’ total net cash outflows are reduced 

 10Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
by the 85% factor. That increase in Trapped Liquidity will prevent the Company’s LCR from materially changing as a result of the Tailoring Rules. 

In April 2016, the Federal Banking Agencies issued an interagency notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the U.S. implementation of the Basel III NSFR (“Proposed NSFR”), which would apply to the same institutions subject to the LCR Rule. The Proposed NSFR would require us to maintain a sufficient amount of stable funding in relation to our assets, derivatives exposures and commitments over a one-year horizon period. Although the Proposed NSFR is generally consistent with the Basel NSFR standard, it is more stringent in certain areas. The financial and operational impact on us of a final NSFR rule remains uncertain until a final rule is published. There is uncertainty regarding the timing and form of any such final rule.

FDICIA and Prompt Corrective Action

The FDICIA requires the Federal Banking Agencies to take “prompt corrective action” for banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDICIA establishes five capital ratio levels: well capitalized; adequately capitalized; undercapitalized; significantly undercapitalized; and critically undercapitalized. The three undercapitalized categories are based upon the amount by which a bank falls below the ratios applicable to an adequately capitalized institution. The capital categories are determined solely for purposes of applying the FDICIA’s prompt corrective action (“PCA”) provisions, and such capital categories may not constitute an accurate representation of the Banks’ overall financial condition or prospects.

The Basel III Capital Rule updated the PCA framework to reflect new, higher regulatory capital minimums. For an insured depository institution to be well capitalized, it must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% or more; a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5% or more; and a leverage ratio of 5% or more. An adequately capitalized depository institution must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% or more; a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% or more; a leverage ratio of 4% or more; and, for Category III and certain other institutions under the Tailoring Rules, a supplementary leverage ratio of 3% or more. The PCA provisions also authorize the Federal Banking Agencies to reclassify a bank’s capital category or take other action against banks that are determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or to have engaged in unsafe or unsound banking practices.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the FDICIA required the Federal Banking Agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards. The standards adopted by the Federal Banking Agencies relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and executive compensation. The Federal Banking Agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements Under the Dodd-Frank Act

We are a “covered company” subject under the Dodd-Frank Act to certain enhanced prudential standards, including requirements that may be recommended by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) and implemented by the Federal Reserve and other regulators. We remain a covered company under the amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act made by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (“EGRRCPA”), which provided reduced enhanced prudential standards for institutions with less than $250 billion in assets. As a result, we are subject to more stringent standards and requirements than those applicable to institutions that are not covered companies. The FSOC may also issue recommendations to the Federal Reserve or other primary financial regulatory agencies to apply new or enhanced standards to certain financial activities or practices.

The Federal Reserve and FDIC have issued rules requiring the Company to implement resolution planning for orderly resolution in the event the covered company faces material financial distress or failure. The FDIC issued similar rules regarding resolution planning applicable to the Banks. In addition, the OCC has issued rules requiring banks with assets of $250 billion or more to develop recovery plans detailing the actions they would take to remain a going concern when they experience considerable financial or operational stress, but have not deteriorated to the point that resolution is imminent.

The Federal Reserve established a rule that implements the requirement in the Dodd-Frank Act that the Federal Reserve conduct annual stress tests on the capacity of our capital to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions. This rule also requires the Company to conduct its own stress tests and publish the results of the stress tests on our website or other public forum. As a Category III institution under the Tailoring Rules, the Company must disclose the results of its company-run stress test in 2020 and every two years thereafter. The OCC has adopted a similar stress test rule requiring banks with at least $250 billion in assets, including CONA, to conduct their own company-run stress tests. Under that OCC rule, CONA must disclose the results of this stress test in 2020 and every two years thereafter.

 11Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
The Federal Reserve also established rules implementing other aspects of the enhanced prudential standards under the Dodd-Frank Act (“Enhanced Standards Rule”). Under the Enhanced Standards Rule, the Company must meet liquidity risk management standards, conduct internal liquidity stress tests, and maintain a 30-day buffer of highly liquid assets, in each case, consistent with the requirements of the Enhanced Standards Rule. These requirements are in addition to the LCR, discussed above in “Basel III and United States Liquidity Rules.” The Enhanced Standards Rule also requires that the Company comply with, and hold capital commensurate with, the requirements of, any regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve relating to capital planning and stress tests. Stress testing and capital planning regulations are discussed further below under “Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds.” The Enhanced Standards Rule also requires that the Company establish and maintain an enterprise-wide risk management framework that includes a risk committee and a chief risk officer.

Although not a requirement of the Dodd-Frank Act, the OCC established regulatory guidelines (“Heightened Standards Guidelines”) that apply heightened standards for risk management to large institutions subject to its supervision, including the Banks. The Heightened Standards Guidelines establish standards for the development and implementation by the Banks of a risk governance framework.

Investment in the Company and the Banks

Certain acquisitions of our capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or state law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our capital stock in excess of the amount that can be acquired without regulatory approval, including under the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act (“CIBC Act”).

Federal law and regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of the Company or the Banks without, in most cases, prior written approval of the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as applicable. Control exists if, among other things, a person or company acquires more than 25% of any class of our voting stock or otherwise has a controlling influence over us. For a publicly traded BHC such as ourselves, a rebuttable presumption of control arises under the CIBC Act if a person or company acquires more than 10% of any class of our voting stock.

Additionally, COBNA and CONA are “banks” within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 6.1 of the Code of Virginia governing the acquisition of interests in Virginia financial institutions (“Financial Institution Holding Company Act”). The Financial Institution Holding Company Act prohibits any person or entity from acquiring, or making any public offer to acquire, control of a Virginia financial institution or its holding company without making application to, and receiving prior approval from, the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions.

Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds 

Under the Federal Reserve’s capital planning rules (commonly referred to as Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review or “CCAR”), “covered BHCs,” including ourselves, must submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis that contains a description of all planned capital actions, including dividends or stock repurchases, over a nine-quarter planning horizon beginning with the first quarter of the calendar year the capital plan is submitted (“CCAR cycle”). A covered BHC may take the proposed capital actions if the Federal Reserve does not object to the plan.

Dodd-Frank Act stress testing, described above in “Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act,” is a complementary exercise to CCAR. It is a forward-looking exercise conducted by the Federal Reserve and covered financial companies to help assess whether a company has sufficient capital to absorb losses and support operations during adverse economic conditions. The supervisory stress test, after incorporating a firm’s planned capital actions, is used for quantitative assessment in CCAR.

The Company must file its capital plan and stress testing results with the Federal Reserve by April 5 of each year (unless the Federal Reserve designates a later date), using data as of the end of the prior calendar year. The Federal Reserve is expected to provide its objection or non-objection to that capital plan in June of that year. The Federal Reserve’s objection or non-objection applies to planned capital actions from the third quarter of the year the capital plan is submitted through the end of the second quarter of the following year. The Company, along with other BHCs subject to the supplementary leverage ratio, must incorporate an estimate of its supplementary leverage ratio into its capital plan and stress tests.

The current capital planning and stress testing rules place supervisory focus on quarterly capital issuances and distributions by establishing a cumulative net distribution requirement. Under a “de minimis” exception, if a company does not receive an objection to its capital plan, it may in certain cases distribute up to 0.25% of its Tier 1 capital above the distributions in its capital plan. With certain limited exceptions, to the extent a BHC does not issue the amount of a given class of regulatory capital instrument that it 

 12Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
projected in its capital plan, as measured on an aggregate basis beginning in the third quarter of the planning horizon, the BHC must reduce its capital distributions.

In December 2018, the Federal Reserve announced that it will maintain its pre-CECL framework for calculating allowances on loans in the supervisory stress test for the 2020 and 2021 supervisory stress testing cycles until the impact of CECL is better known and understood. The Federal Reserve stated further that although bank holding companies required to perform company-run stress tests will be required to incorporate CECL into those stress tests starting in the 2020 cycle, it will not issue supervisory findings on those firms’ allowance estimations in the CCAR exercise through 2021.

In April 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule (“Stress Capital Buffer Proposed Rule”) that would implement a firm-specific “stress capital buffer” requirement and a “stress leverage buffer” requirement. The Federal Reserve described the Stress Capital Buffer Proposed Rule as designed to simplify the agency’s regulatory regime by integrating the supervisory stress tests with its non-stress capital rules. Under the Stress Capital Buffer Proposed Rule, a firm’s stress capital buffer would have a floor of 2.5% of total risk-weighted assets, replacing the existing 2.5% capital conservation buffer, and would equal, as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets, the sum of (i) the difference between a firm’s starting common equity Tier 1 capital ratio and the low point under the severely adverse scenario of the Federal Reserve’s supervisory stress test plus (ii) the ratio of the firm’s projected four quarters of common stock dividends to risk-weighted assets as projected under CCAR (for the fourth to seventh quarters of the planning horizon). A firm’s new “Standardized Approach capital conservation buffer” would include its stress capital buffer, any G-SIB surcharge (not applicable to us), and any applicable countercyclical capital buffer (currently set at zero). The consequences of breaching the stress capital buffer requirement would be consistent with the current capital conservation buffer framework and would result in increasingly strict limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The Stress Capital Buffer Proposed Rule would replace the current CCAR post-stress leverage ratio requirement with a stress leverage buffer requirement. Additionally, the proposal would modify certain CCAR assumptions relating to balance sheet growth, prefunding of dividends, and capital distributions. It is not clear which of these changes, if any, will be finalized and when they would go into effect.

Historically, dividends from the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries have represented a major source of the funds we have used to pay dividends on our stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet our other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, provisions of Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit insured depository institutions, such as the Banks, from making dividend distributions without first obtaining regulatory approval if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards.

Deposit Insurance Assessments

Each of CONA and COBNA, as an insured depository institution, is a member of the DIF maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The FDIC sets a Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”) for the DIF. To maintain the DIF, member institutions may be assessed an insurance premium, and the FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DRR falls below its required level.

Source of Strength and Liability for Commonly Controlled Institutions

Under regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, a BHC must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks (the so-called “source of strength doctrine”). The Dodd-Frank Act codified this doctrine.

Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the Banks may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. The Banks are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.

FDIC Orderly Liquidation Authority

The Dodd-Frank Act provides the FDIC with liquidation authority that may be used to liquidate nonbank financial companies and BHCs if the Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President and based on the recommendation of the Federal Reserve and other appropriate Federal Banking Agencies, determines that doing so is necessary, among other criteria, to mitigate serious adverse 

 13Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
effects on U.S. financial stability. Upon such a determination, the FDIC would be appointed receiver and must liquidate the company in a way that mitigates significant risks to financial stability and minimizes moral hazard. The costs of a liquidation of the company would be borne by shareholders and unsecured creditors and then, if necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial companies. The FDIC has issued rules implementing certain provisions of its liquidation authority and may issue additional rules in the future.

Regulation of Businesses by Authorities Outside the United States

COBNA is subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions where it operates, currently in the United Kingdom and Canada.

United Kingdom

In the United Kingdom, COBNA operates through COEP, which was established in 2000 and is an authorized payment institution regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. COEP’s indirect parent, Capital One Global Corporation, is wholly-owned by COBNA and is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as an “agreement corporation” under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation K.

The FCA set a deadline of August 29, 2019 (“the Deadline”) for the submission of complaints to firms (including COEP) about Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”). In order to ensure complainants were treated fairly and in anticipation of the increase in complaint volumes that the Deadline would create, the FCA closely supervised all large lenders (including COEP) throughout 2019. COEP received a significant volume of complaints, particularly in the weeks immediately preceding the Deadline, and expects to be handling those complaints through the second quarter of 2020. Escalations to the Financial Ombudsman Service (“FOS”) may then take place until the end of 2020. During that time, the FCA will continue to closely supervise firms that handle PPI complaints and the supporting processes, people and systems.

Canada

In Canada, COBNA operates as an authorized foreign bank pursuant to the Bank Act (Canada) (“Bank Act”) and is permitted to conduct its credit card business in Canada through its Canadian branch, Capital One Bank (Canada Branch) (“Capital One Canada”). The primary regulator of Capital One Canada is the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions. Other regulators include the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (“FCAC”), the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, and the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada. Capital One Canada is subject to regulation under various Canadian federal laws, including the Bank Act and its regulations, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.

On December 13, 2018, Bill C-86, Budget Implementation Act, 2018, No. 2 was passed by Parliament. Among other things, Bill C-86 amends the Bank Act (Canada) to consolidate and strengthen provisions that apply to banks and authorized foreign banks in the areas of consumer protection, corporate governance, business practices, public reporting, disclosure of information and access to basic banking services. Bill C-86 also amends the FCAC Act to enhance the role and powers of the FCAC by, among other things, increasing the maximum penalty for a violation of the consumer protection provisions of the Bank Act from 50,000 Canadian dollars (“CAD”) for natural persons and 500,000 CAD in the case of financial institutions or a payment card network to 1 million CAD and 10 million CAD, respectively. We are continuing to analyze the impacts of Bill C-86 in order to determine its applicability and impact to our business.

In August 2018, the Government of Canada announced new voluntary commitments from Visa Canada and MasterCard Canada, which will take effect when the original commitments end in 2020. As part of their new commitments, Visa and Mastercard will further reduce interchange fees for consumer credit cards by approximately 10 basis points to an annual average effective rate of 1.4% for a period of five years. Visa and Mastercard will also narrow the range of interchange rates (lowest vs. highest fee) charged to businesses.

EMPLOYEES

A central part of our philosophy is to attract and retain highly capable staff. We had approximately 51,900 employees, whom we refer to as “associates,” as of December 31, 2019. None of our associates are covered under a collective bargaining agreement, and management considers our associate relations to be satisfactory.

 14Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Technology/Systems

We leverage information and technology to achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our customers’ needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the development and use of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems, such as cloud technology, to support complex marketing and account management strategies, the servicing of our customers, and the development of new and diversified products. We believe that the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts to reduce costs, improve quality and security and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we continuously review capabilities and develop or acquire systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements.

As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third-party outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. We continue to rely on third-party outsourcers to help us deliver systems and operational infrastructure. These relationships include (but are not limited to): Amazon Web Services, Inc. (“AWS”) for our cloud infrastructure, Total System Services LLC (“TSYS”) for consumer and commercial credit card processing services for our North American and U.K. portfolios, Fidelity Information Services (“FIS”) for certain of our banking systems and International Business Machines Corporation for mainframe managed services.

We are committed to safeguarding our customers’ and our own information and technology, implement backup and recovery systems, and generally require the same of our third-party service providers. We take measures that mitigate against known attacks and use internal and external resources to scan for vulnerabilities in platforms, systems, and applications necessary for delivering Capital One products and services. For a discussion of the risks associated with our use of technology systems, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the headings “We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure” and “Increased costs, reductions in revenue, reputational damage and business disruptions can result from the theft, loss or misuse of information, including as a result of a cyber-attack.”

Intellectual Property

As part of our overall and ongoing strategy to protect and enhance our intellectual property, we rely on a variety of protections, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure, solicitation and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to, or distribution of, our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information. In addition, our competitors and other third parties also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry. The ability of our competitors and other third parties to obtain patents may adversely affect our ability to compete and our financial results. Conversely, our ability to obtain patents may increase our competitive advantage, preserve our freedom to operate, and allow us to enter into licensing (e.g., cross-licenses) or other arrangements with third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to obtain such patents may not adversely impact our financial results. For a discussion of risks associated with intellectual property, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the heading “If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected.”

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

From time to time, we have made and will make forward-looking statements, including those that discuss, among other things, strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; projections, revenues, income, returns, expenses, capital measures, capital allocation plans, accruals for claims in litigation and for other claims against us; earnings per share, efficiency ratio, operating efficiency ratio, or other financial measures for us; future financial and operating results; our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; and the assumptions that underlie these matters.

To the extent that any such information is forward-looking, it is intended to fit within the safe harbor for forward-looking information provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, including, among other things:

 15Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
•general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada or our local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels, interest rates, tariffs, collateral values, consumer income, credit worthiness and confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity;

•an increase or decrease in credit losses, including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in the credit environment, and the impact of inaccurate estimates or inadequate reserves;

•compliance with financial, legal, regulatory, tax or accounting changes or actions, including the impacts of the Tax Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, and other regulations governing bank capital and liquidity standards;

•our ability to manage effectively our capital and liquidity;

•developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation, governmental investigation or regulatory enforcement action or matter involving us, including those relating to U.K. PPI;

•the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth;

•increases or decreases in interest rates and uncertainty with respect to the interest rate environment;

•uncertainty regarding, and transition away from, the London Interbank Offering Rate;

•our ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund our operations and future growth;

•increases or decreases in our aggregate loan balances or the number of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or decreases resulting from factors such as shifting product mix, amount of actual marketing expenses we incur and attrition of loan balances;

•the amount and rate of deposit growth;

•changes in deposit costs;

•our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans;

•restructuring activities or other charges;

•our response to competitive pressures;

•changes in retail distribution strategies and channels, including the emergence of new technologies and product delivery systems;

•our success in integrating acquired businesses and loan portfolios, and our ability to realize anticipated benefits from announced transactions and strategic partnerships;

•the success of our marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers;

•changes in the reputation of, or expectations regarding, the financial services industry or us with respect to practices, products or financial condition;

•any significant disruption in our operations or in the technology platforms on which we rely, including cybersecurity, business continuity and related operational risks, as well as other security failures or breaches of our systems or those of our customers, partners, service providers or other third parties;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•our ability to maintain a compliance and technology infrastructure suitable for the nature of our business;

 16Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
•our ability to develop and adapt to rapid changes in digital technology to address the needs of our customers and comply with applicable regulatory standards, including compliance with data protection and privacy standards;

•the effectiveness of our risk management strategies;

•our ability to control costs, including the amount of, and rate of growth in, our expenses as our business develops or changes or as it expands into new market areas;

•the extensive use, reliability and accuracy of the models and data we rely on;

•our ability to recruit and retain talented and experienced personnel;

•the impact from, and our ability to respond to, natural disasters and other catastrophic events;

•changes in the labor and employment markets;

•fraud or misconduct by our customers, employees, business partners or third parties;

•merchants’ increasing focus on the fees charged by credit card networks; and

•other risk factors identified from time to time in our public disclosures, including in the reports that we file with the SEC.

Forward-looking statements often use words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “target,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “goal,” “believe,” “forecast,” “outlook” or other words of similar meaning. Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date they are made or as of the date indicated, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional information on factors that could materially influence forward-looking statements included in this Report, see the risk factors set forth under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report. You should carefully consider the factors discussed above, and in our Risk Factors or other disclosure, in evaluating these forward-looking statements.

 17Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Item 1A. Risk Factors