Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

The matters discussed in this Item may contain “forward-looking statements” as described in the introductory paragraphs of Item 7. MD&A. The reader’s attention is directed to those paragraphs and Item 1A. Risk Factors for discussion of various risks and uncertainties that may impact the Companies.  

66  

Market Risk Sensitive Instruments And Risk Management  

The Companies’ financial instruments, commodity contracts and related financial derivative instruments are exposed to potential losses due to adverse changes in commodity prices, interest rates and equity security prices as described below. Commodity price risk is present in Dominion Energy and Virginia Power’s electric operations and Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas’ natural gas procurement and marketing operations due to the exposure to market shifts in prices received and paid for electricity, natural gas and other commodities. The Companies use commodity derivative contracts to manage price risk exposures for these operations. Interest rate risk is generally related to their outstanding debt and future issuances of debt. In addition, the Companies are exposed to investment price risk through various portfolios of equity and debt securities.  

The following sensitivity analysis estimates the potential loss of future earnings or fair value from market risk sensitive instruments over a selected time period due to a 10% change in commodity prices or interest rates.  

Commodity Price Risk  

To manage price risk, Dominion Energy and Virginia Power hold commodity-based derivative instruments held for 

non-trading  purposes associated with purchases and sales of electricity, natural gas and other energy-related products. Dominion Energy Gas’ operations are contracted primarily under long-term fixed reservation agreements. Accordingly, management believes that Dominion Energy Gas is not subject to material commodity price risk. 

The derivatives used to manage commodity price risk are executed within established policies and procedures and may include instruments such as futures, forwards, swaps, options and FTRs that are sensitive to changes in the related commodity prices. For sensitivity analysis purposes, the hypothetical change in market prices of commodity-based derivative instruments is determined based on models that consider the market prices of commodities in future periods, the volatility of the market prices in each period, as well as the time value factors of the derivative instruments. Prices and volatility are principally determined based on observable market prices.  

A hypothetical 10% decrease in commodity prices would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of $50 million and $6 million of Dominion Energy’s commodity-based derivative instruments as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  

A hypothetical 10% decrease in commodity prices of Virginia Power’s commodity-based derivative instruments would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of $54 million and $51 million as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.  

The impact of a change in energy commodity prices on the Companies’ commodity-based derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when the contracts are ultimately settled. Net losses from commodity-based financial derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the hedged transaction, such as revenue from physical sales of the commodity.  

Interest Rate Risk  

The Companies manage their interest rate risk exposure predominantly by maintaining a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. For variable rate debt outstanding for Dominion Energy, a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates would not have resulted in a material change in earnings at December 31, 2019 and would have resulted in a $24 million decrease in earnings at December 31, 2018. For variable rate debt outstanding for Virginia Power, a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates would not have resulted in a material change in earnings at December 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018. For variable rate debt outstanding for Dominion Energy Gas, a hypothetical 10% increase in market interest rates would not have resulted in a material change in earnings at December 31, 2019 and would have resulted in a $16 million decrease in earnings at December 31, 2018.  

The Companies also use interest rate derivatives, including forward-starting swaps, interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements to manage interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2019, Dominion Energy, Virginia Power and Dominion Energy Gas had $6.4 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, in aggregate notional amounts of these interest rate derivatives outstanding. A hypothetical 10% decrease in market interest rates would have resulted in a decrease of $135 million, $88 million and $17 million, respectively, in the fair value of Dominion Energy, Virginia Power and Dominion Energy Gas’ interest rate derivatives at December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2018, Dominion Energy, Virginia Power and Dominion Energy Gas had $6.6 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, in aggregate notional amounts of these interest rate derivatives outstanding. A hypothetical 10% decrease in market interest rates would have resulted in a decrease of $142 million, $94 million and $17 million, respectively, in the fair value of Dominion Energy, Virginia Power and Dominion Energy Gas’ interest rate derivatives at December 31, 2018.  

Dominion Energy Gas holds foreign currency swaps with the purpose of hedging the foreign currency exchange risk associated with Euro denominated debt. As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas had 

€250 million in aggregate notional amounts of these foreign currency swaps outstanding. A hypothetical 10% decrease in market interest rates would not have resulted in a material decrease in fair value of Dominion Energy Gas’ foreign currency swaps at December 31, 2019 and would have resulted in a decrease of $8 million in the fair value of Dominion Energy Gas’ foreign currency swaps at December 31, 2018. 

The impact of a change in interest rates on the Companies’ interest rate-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when the contracts are ultimately settled. Net gains and/or losses from interest rate derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the hedged transaction.  

Investment Price Risk  

Dominion Energy and Virginia Power are subject to investment price risk due to securities held as investments in nuclear decommissioning and rabbi trust funds that are managed by third-party  

67    

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Continued  

investment managers. These trust funds primarily hold marketable securities that are reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.  

Dominion Energy recognized net investment gains (including investment income) on nuclear decommissioning and rabbi trust investments of $1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. Dominion Energy recognized net investment losses (including investment income) on nuclear decommissioning trust investments of $135 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Net realized gains and losses include gains and losses from the sale of investments as well as any other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Dominion Energy recorded, in AOCI and regulatory liabilities, a net increase in unrealized gains on debt investments of $74 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and recorded a net decrease in unrealized gains on debt investments of $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

Virginia Power recognized net investment gains (including investment income) on nuclear decommissioning trust investments of $481 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Virginia Power recognized net investment losses (including investment income) on nuclear decommissioning trust investments of $44 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Net realized gains and losses include gains and losses from the sale of investments as well as any other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Virginia Power recorded, in AOCI and regulatory liabilities, a net increase in unrealized gains on debt investments of $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and recorded a net decrease in unrealized gains on debt investments of $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  

Dominion Energy sponsors pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans that hold investments in trusts to fund employee benefit payments. Virginia Power and Dominion Energy Gas employees participate in these plans. Dominion Energy’s pension and other postretirement plan assets experienced aggregate actual returns (losses) of $2.1 billion and $(605) million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, versus expected returns of $848 million and $806 million, respectively. Dominion Energy Gas’ pension and other postretirement plan assets for employees represented by collective bargaining units experienced aggregate actual returns (losses) of $167 million and $(129) million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, versus expected returns of $70 million and $178 million, respectively. Differences between actual and  

expected returns on plan assets are accumulated and amortized during future periods. As such, any investment-related declines in these trusts will result in future increases in the net periodic cost recognized for such employee benefit plans and will be included in the determination of the amount of cash to be contributed to the employee benefit plans. A hypothetical 0.25% decrease in the assumed long-term rates of return on Dominion Energy’s plan assets would result in an increase in net periodic cost of $23 million and $19 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, for pension benefits and $5 million and $4 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, for other postretirement benefits. A hypothetical 0.25% decrease in the assumed long-term rates of return on Dominion Energy Gas’ plan assets, for employees represented by collective bargaining units, would result in an increase in net periodic cost of $2 million and $4 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, for pension benefits and $1 million as of December 31, 2018 for other postretirement benefits. This hypothetical decrease would result in an immaterial change in net periodic cost to Dominion Energy Gas for other postretirement benefits as of December 31, 2019. 

Risk Management Policies  

The Companies have established operating procedures with corporate management to ensure that proper internal controls are maintained. In addition, Dominion Energy has established an independent function at the corporate level to monitor compliance with the credit and commodity risk management policies of all subsidiaries, including Virginia Power and Dominion Energy Gas. Dominion Energy maintains credit policies that include the evaluation of a prospective counterparty’s financial condition, collateral requirements where deemed necessary and the use of standardized agreements that facilitate the netting of cash flows associated with a single counterparty. In addition, Dominion Energy also monitors the financial condition of existing counterparties on an ongoing basis. Based on these credit policies and the Companies’ December 31, 2019 provision for credit losses, management believes that it is unlikely that a material adverse effect on the Companies’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows would occur as a result of counterparty nonperformance.  

68  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data