Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Forward-looking statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, statements including the words "expect," "intend," "will," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "forecast," "guidance," "outlook," "goals," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, such as expectations for operating cash flow, estimated charges and accruals, the development of new dialysis centers and dialysis center acquisitions or other new service offerings, government and commercial payment rates, and our stock repurchase program. Our actual results and other events could differ materially from any forward-looking statements due to numerous factors that involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things:

•the concentration of profits generated by higher-paying commercial payor plans for which there is continued downward pressure on realized payment rates, and a reduction in the number of patients under such plans, including as a result of restrictions or prohibitions on the use and/or availability of charitable premium assistance, which may result in the loss of revenues or patients, or our making incorrect assumptions about how our patients will respond to any change in financial assistance from charitable organizations;

•the extent to which the ongoing implementation of healthcare reform, or changes in or new legislation, regulations or guidance, enforcement thereof or related litigation result in a reduction in coverage or reimbursement rates for our services, a reduction in the number of patients enrolled in higher-paying commercial plans, or other material impacts to our business; or our making incorrect assumptions about how our patients will respond to any such developments;

•a reduction in government payment rates under the Medicare End Stage Renal Disease program or other government-based programs and the impact of the Medicare Advantage benchmark structure;

•risks arising from potential and proposed federal and/or state legislation, regulation, ballot, executive action or other initiatives, including such initiatives related to healthcare and/or labor matters;

•the impact of the political environment and related developments on the current healthcare marketplace and on our business, including with respect to the future of the Affordable Care Act, the exchanges and many other core aspects of the current healthcare marketplace;

•our ability to successfully implement our strategy with respect to home-based dialysis, including maintaining our existing business and further developing our capabilities in a complex and highly regulated environment;

•changes in pharmaceutical practice patterns, reimbursement and payment policies and processes, or pharmaceutical pricing, including with respect to calcimimetics;

•legal and compliance risks, such as our continued compliance with complex government regulations;

•continued increased competition from dialysis providers and others, and other potential marketplace changes;

•our ability to maintain contracts with physician medical directors, changing affiliation models for physicians, and the emergence of new models of care introduced by the government or private sector that may erode our patient base and reimbursement rates, such as accountable care organizations, independent practice associations and integrated delivery systems;

•our ability to complete acquisitions, mergers or dispositions that we might announce or be considering, on terms favorable to us or at all, or to integrate and successfully operate any business we may acquire or have acquired, or to successfully expand our operations and services in markets outside the United States, or to businesses outside of dialysis;

•uncertainties related to potential payments and/or adjustments under certain provisions of the equity purchase agreement for the sale of our DaVita Medical Group (DMG) business, such as post-closing adjustments and indemnification obligations;

51

•noncompliance by us or our business associates with any privacy or security laws or any security breach by us or a third party involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information;

•the variability of our cash flows; the risk that we may not be able to generate sufficient cash in the future to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; and the risk that we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness as it becomes due, on terms favorable to us or at all;

•factors that may impact our ability to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and the timing of any such stock repurchases, as well as our use of a considerable amount of available funds to repurchase stock;

•risks arising from the use of accounting estimates, judgments and interpretations in our financial statements;

•impairment of our goodwill, investments or other assets;

•uncertainties related to our use of the proceeds from the DMG sale transaction and other available funds, including external financing and cash flow from operations, which may be or have been used in ways that we cannot assure will improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock; and

•uncertainties associated with the other risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in any subsequent reports that we file or furnish with the SEC from time to time.

 The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements in this report are based solely on information available to us on the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changed circumstances, new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.

The following should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements.

52

Company overview

Our principal business is to provide dialysis and related lab services to patients in the United States, which we refer to as our U.S. dialysis business. We also operate various ancillary services and strategic initiatives including our international operations, which we collectively refer to as our ancillary services, as well as our corporate administrative support. Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services in the U.S. for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure, also known as end stage renal disease (ESRD).

On June 19, 2019, we completed the sale of our DaVita Medical Group (DMG) business to Collaborative Care Holdings, LLC (Optum), a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc. As a result of this transaction, DMG's results of operations have been reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented and DMG is not included below in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.

Our overall financial performance in 2019 benefited from increased treatment volume from acquired and non-acquired growth in both our U.S. dialysis and international businesses and a corresponding increase in revenue, as well as improved operating margins due to a decrease in the cost of calcimimetics from the introduction of lower cost oral generics, a decrease in other pharmaceutical unit costs, and a decrease in advocacy costs as compared to the prior year. This was partially offset by increases in labor and benefits costs, other center related costs, a decrease in revenues from the closure of our pharmaceutical business in 2018. The year-over-year comparison was also adversely impacted by $36 million of additional Medicare bad debt revenue recognized in 2018 due to a policy election on adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.

Drivers of our financial performance in 2019 included the following:

•improved key clinical outcomes in our U.S. dialysis business, including our recognition as an industry leader for the seventh consecutive year in CMS’ Quality Incentive Program and for the last six years under the CMS Five-Star Quality Rating system;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•operating cash flows of $2.0 billion from continuing operations;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•entry into a new $5.5 billion senior secured credit agreement and redemption of our 5.75% senior notes.

In 2020, we expect the fundamentals of our U.S. dialysis business to generally be similar to the dynamics that we faced in 2019. On treatment volume, we continue to face pressure due to slowing industry growth as well as competitive activity. On reimbursement rate, we expect modest growth in aggregate, primarily due to the expected net market basket update for Medicare treatments. On cost, we continue to expect inflationary pressure on wage rates and other costs, offset by continued savings on drug costs. We expect to continue making investments to grow our home-based dialysis services in 2020. We anticipate two notable differences in 2020 versus 2019 - we expect to generate significantly less income on calcimimetics due to expected decreases in Medicare reimbursement throughout 2020, and we plan to incur costs in 2020, which could be significant, to counter a proposed union-backed ballot initiative in California.

The discussion below includes analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017, in Part II Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".

References to the "Notes" in the discussion below refer to the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K at Item 15, "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" as referred from Part II Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

53

Consolidated results of operations

The following table summarizes our revenues, operating income and adjusted operating income by line of business. See the discussion of our results for each line of business following this table. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns, rows or percentages may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income (loss) by reportable segment, see "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below. 

U.S. dialysis business

Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services, operating 2,753 outpatient dialysis centers, serving a total of approximately 206,900 patients. We also provide acute inpatient dialysis services in approximately 900 hospitals. We estimate that we have approximately a 38% share of the U.S. dialysis market based upon the number of patients we serve. 

Approximately 92% of our 2019 consolidated revenues were derived directly from our U.S. dialysis business. The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis revenues include :

•the number of treatments, which is primarily a function of the number of chronic patients requiring approximately three treatments per week, as well as, to a lesser extent, the number of treatments for peritoneal dialysis, home dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis; and

•average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment, including the mix of commercial and government patients.

Within our U.S. dialysis business, our home-based dialysis and hospital inpatient dialysis services are operationally integrated with our outpatient dialysis centers and related laboratory services. Our outpatient, home-based, and hospital inpatient dialysis services comprise approximately 78%, 16% and 6% of our U.S. dialysis revenues, respectively.

In the U.S., government dialysis-related payment rates are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For 2019, approximately 69% of our total U.S. dialysis patient services revenues were generated from government-based programs for services to approximately 90% of our total patients. These government-based programs are principally Medicare and Medicare-assigned, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans, and other government plans, representing approximately 59%, 6% and 4% of our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues, respectively. 

54

Dialysis payment rates from commercial payors vary and a major portion of our commercial rates are set at contracted amounts with payors and are subject to intense negotiation pressure. On average, dialysis-related payment rates from contracted commercial payors are significantly higher than Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment rates, and therefore the percentage of commercial patients in relation to total patients represents a major driver of our total average dialysis net patient service revenue per treatment. Commercial payors (including hospital dialysis services) represent approximately 31% of U.S. dialysis patient services revenues. Over the last two years, we have seen a slight decline in the growth of our commercial patients, which has been outpaced by the growth of our government-based patients.

For further discussion of government reimbursement, the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system and commercial reimbursement, see the discussion in Item 1. Business under the heading “U.S. dialysis business – Sources of revenue-concentrations and risks.” For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with the Medicare ESRD bundled payment system, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading “Changes in the structure of and payment rates under the Medicare ESRD program could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.” For a discussion of operational, clinical and financial risks and uncertainties that we face in connection with commercial payors, see the risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings "If the average rates that commercial payors pay us decline significantly or if patients in commercial plans are subject to restriction in plan designs, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows"; and "If the number of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."

The impact of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals on our overall revenues that are separately billable has significantly decreased since Medicare’s single bundled payment system went into effect beginning in January 2011, and as a result of commercial contracts that pay us a single bundled payment rate. 

Effective January 1, 2018, both oral and intravenous forms of calcimimetics, a drug class taken by many patients with ESRD to treat mineral bone disorder, became the financial responsibility of our U.S. dialysis business for our Medicare patients and are now reimbursed under Medicare Part B. Previously, calcimimetics were reimbursed for Medicare patients through Part D once dispensed from traditional pharmacies. Currently, the oral and intravenous forms of calcimimetics remain separately reimbursed and therefore are not part of the ESRD Prospective Payment System (PPS) bundled payment. During the initial pass-through period, Medicare payment for calcimimetics was based on a pass-through rate of the average sales price plus approximately 6% before sequestration (or 4% adjusted for sequestration), however, in 2020 calcimimetics are reimbursed at average sales price plus 0% before sequestration. CMS has stated intentions to enter calcimimetics into the ESRD bundled payment as of January 1, 2021. We do not know the rate at which CMS will include calcimimetics into the bundle. If there is a reduction from the current amount of reimbursement or if CMS fails to increase the bundle in a sufficient manner to appropriately and adequately reimburse for the drug, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, during the period in which we are separately reimbursed for calcimimetics, we expect our average revenue per treatment related to these pharmaceuticals to decline in future periods as CMS adjusts the reimbursement amount to more closely match the cost of these pharmaceuticals in accordance with their rules. We therefore expect to realize significantly reduced levels of operating income from calcimimetics in the future as compared to 2019.

Approximately 6% and 7% of our total U.S. dialysis net patient services revenues for the years 2019 and 2018, respectively, are associated with the administration of separately-billable physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals, of which approximately 4% and 5% relate to the administration of calcimimetics, respectively. 

We anticipate that we will continue to experience increases in our operating costs in 2020 that may outpace any net Medicare rate increases that we may receive, which could significantly impact our operating results. In particular, we expect to continue experiencing increases in operating costs that are subject to inflation, such as labor and supply costs, including increases in maintenance costs, regardless of whether there is a compensating inflation-based increase in Medicare payment rates or in payments under the ESRD bundled payment rate system. We also expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to improve, renovate and maintain our facilities, equipment and information technology to meet evolving regulatory requirements and otherwise.

U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers, home-based programs and hospital inpatient programs, and consist principally of labor, benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers. 

55

The principal drivers of our U.S. dialysis patient care costs include:

•clinical hours per treatment, labor rates and benefit costs;

•vendor pricing and utilization levels of pharmaceuticals;

•business infrastructure costs, which include the operating costs of our dialysis centers; and 

•certain professional fees. 

Other cost categories that can present significant variability include employee benefit costs, insurance costs and medical supply costs. In addition, proposed ballot initiatives or referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes could cause us to incur substantial costs for related advocacy or to prepare for, or implement changes required. Any such changes could result in, among other things, increases in our labor costs or limitations on the amount of revenue that we can retain. For additional detail on risks associated with potential and proposed ballot initiatives, referendums, legislation, regulations or policy changes, see the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading, "Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."

Our average clinical hours per treatment decreased in 2019 compared to 2018. We are always striving for improved productivity levels, however, changes in things such as federal and state policies or regulatory billing requirements can lead to increased labor costs. Improvements in the U.S. economy have stimulated additional competition for skilled clinical personnel resulting in slightly higher clinical teammate turnover over the last few years, which we believe has negatively affected productivity levels. In both 2019 and 2018, we experienced an increase in our clinical labor rates of approximately 2.0% and 3.0%, respectively, consistent with general industry trends. We also continue to experience increases in the infrastructure and operating costs of our dialysis centers, primarily due to the number of new dialysis centers opened, and general increases in rent, utilities and repairs and maintenance. In 2019, we continued to implement certain cost control initiatives to help manage our overall operating costs, including labor productivity.

Our U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses represented 8.1% of our U.S. dialysis revenues in both 2019 and 2018. Increases in general and administrative expenses over the last several years were primarily related to strengthening our dialysis business and related compliance and operational processes, responding to certain legal and compliance matters, professional fees associated with enhancing our information technology systems and more recent costs to counter union policy efforts. We expect these levels of general and administrative expenses will continue in 2020 and could possibly increase as we seek out new business opportunities and continue to invest in improving our information technology infrastructure and maintain our regulatory compliance program, among other things. In addition, our general administrative expenses could increase in 2020 as compared to the prior year due to additional anticipated advocacy costs to challenge ballot initiatives, which could be significant.

U.S. dialysis results of operations

Revenues: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

U.S. dialysis revenues increased primarily due to volume growth from additional treatments of 2.5% due to an increase in acquired and non-acquired treatments. Our U.S. dialysis revenues were negatively impacted by a decrease in our average net patient service revenue per treatment due to a rate decline related to calcimimetics which was partially offset by an increase in Medicare rates in 2019. In addition, 2018 was favorably impacted by $36 million of additional Medicare bad debt revenue due to a policy election made in 2018 under the new revenue recognition accounting standards.

56

Operating expenses and charges:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns, rows or percentages may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

Patient care costs. U.S. dialysis patient care costs are those costs directly associated with operating and supporting our dialysis centers and consist principally of labor, benefits, pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and other operating costs of the dialysis centers. 

U.S. dialysis patient care costs per treatment decreased primarily due to a decrease in calcimimetics unit costs as oral generic products have entered the market lowering the cost of products we acquire, as well as decreases in other pharmaceutical unit costs. These decreases were partially offset by increases in benefits costs and other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers.

General and administrative expenses. U.S. dialysis general and administrative expenses in 2019 increased primarily due to increases in labor and benefit costs, and long-term incentive compensation expense driven by compensation plans based on operating income performance. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in advocacy costs to oppose certain legislative and ballot initiatives as well as a decline in asset impairments related to expected center closures.

Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense is directly impacted by the number of dialysis centers we develop and acquire. U.S. dialysis depreciation and amortization expenses increased primarily due to growth in the number of dialysis centers we operate, as well as additional informational technology initiatives.

Equity investment income. U.S. dialysis equity investment income increased primarily due to an increase in the profitability at certain joint ventures, as well as an increase in the number of our nonconsolidated dialysis joint ventures.

Gain on changes in ownership interests, net. During 2018, we acquired a controlling interest in a previously nonconsolidated dialysis partnership. As a result of this transaction, we consolidated this partnership and recognized a non-cash gain of $28 million on our previously held ownership interest in the partnership.

Operating income and adjusted operating income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income by reportable segment, see "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below. 

U.S. dialysis operating income and adjusted operating income in 2019 increased as compared to the prior year due to an increase in our margin on calcimimetics, treatment growth and Medicare rates, as described above, as well as decreases in advocacy costs and other pharmaceutical unit costs. These increases were partially offset by increases in other direct operating expenses associated with our dialysis centers, labor and benefits costs and long-term compensation expense. 

57

Other - Ancillary services

Our other operations include ancillary services which are primarily aligned with our core business of providing dialysis services to our network of patients. As of December 31, 2019, these consisted primarily of integrated care and disease management (DaVita IKC), ESRD seamless care organizations (ESCOs), clinical research programs (DaVita Clinical Research), vascular access services, physician services, and comprehensive kidney care (Vively Health formerly known as DaVita Health Solutions), as well as our international operations. These ancillary services, including our international operations, generated approximately $972 million of revenues in 2019, representing approximately 8% of our consolidated revenues. As further described in the risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading, "Our ancillary services and strategic initiatives, including, without limitation, our international operations, that we operate or invest in now or in the future may generate losses and may ultimately be unsuccessful. In the event that one or more of these activities is unsuccessful, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be negatively impacted and we may have to write off our investment and incur other exit costs," if any of our ancillary services or strategic initiatives, such as our international operations, are unsuccessful, it could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and we may determine to exit that line of business, which could result in significant termination costs. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future incur a material write-off or an impairment of our investment, including goodwill, in one or more of these ancillary services. In that regard, we may in the future incur impairment and restructuring charges in addition to those incurred by our pharmacy business in 2018, described below.

We expect to add additional service offerings to our business and pursue additional strategic initiatives in the future as circumstances warrant, which could include healthcare services not related to dialysis. 

As of December 31, 2019, our international dialysis operations provided dialysis and administrative services through a network of 259 outpatient dialysis centers located in ten countries outside of the U.S. For 2019, total revenues generated from our international operations were approximately 4% of our consolidated revenues.

Ancillary services results of operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns, rows or percentages may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

(1)For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income by reportable segment, see "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below. 

Revenues:

U.S. ancillary services revenues decreased due to the closure of our pharmacy distribution operations in 2018 and the sale of our primary care business in the second quarter of 2018, as well as decreases in revenues at Vively Health, our ESCO joint ventures and DaVita Clinical Research. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in revenues at DaVita IKC, 

58

primarily due to an increase in special needs plans revenues. In addition, international revenues increased due to acquired and non-acquired treatment growth as we continue to expand internationally.

Charges impacting operating income: 

Goodwill impairment charges. During the first and third quarter of 2019, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $41 million and $79 million, respectively, in our German kidney care business. The first quarter charge resulted primarily from a change in relevant discount rates, as well as a decline in current and expected future patient census and an increase in first quarter and expected future costs, principally due to wage increases expected to result from recently announced legislation. The third quarter incremental charge recognized in the Germany kidney care business resulted from changes and developments in our outlook for this business since our last assessment. These primarily concern developments in the business in response to evolving market conditions and changes in our expected timing and ability to mitigate them.

During 2019 and 2018, we also recognized goodwill impairment charges of $5 million and $3 million, respectively, at our German other health operations. See further discussion of these impairment charges and our reporting units that remain at risk of goodwill impairment in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Restructuring charges and other impairments. During 2018, we announced a plan to restructure our pharmacy business due to changes in the oral pharmacy space, including reimbursement rate pressures that negatively affected the economics of our pharmacy services business. This included transitioning the customer service and fulfillment functions of this business to third parties and closing our distribution operation, which resulted in a decline in revenues and costs in 2018. As a result of this closure, in 2018 we recognized restructuring charges of $11 million and asset impairment charges of $17 million related to the restructuring of our pharmacy business. 

Gain on changes in ownership interests, net. Effective June 1, 2018, we sold 100% of the stock of Paladina Health, our direct primary care business and recognized a gain of approximately $34 million on this transaction. In addition, we recognized a loss of approximately $1 million related to the unwinding of an international business in the second quarter of 2018.

Operating loss and adjusted operating loss:

U.S. ancillary services operating loss was impacted by the charges discussed above, in addition to an equity investment loss on the sale of our India business in our APAC JV of $9 million and an equity investment loss of $8 million related to impairments at our APAC JV. Both U.S. ancillary services operating loss and adjusted operating loss were impacted by a decrease related to our pharmacy distribution ceasing operations in 2018, as described above, and increases in operating results for DaVita IKC and DaVita Clinical Research, partially offset by decreases in operating results at Vively Health and at our ESCO joint ventures. International operating losses increased due to the goodwill impairment in our Germany businesses. International adjusted operating results improved over 2018 due to growth in our international business and benefited from cost efficiencies implemented. 

Corporate administrative support

Corporate administrative support consists primarily of labor, benefits and long-term incentive compensation expense, as well as professional fees for departments which provide support to all of our various operating lines of business. These expenses are partially offset by internal management fees charged to our other lines of business for that support. Corporate administrative support expenses are included in general and administrative expenses on our consolidated income statement. 

Corporate administrative support expenses increased $2 million or 2.2% in 2019 primarily due to a reduction in internal management fees charged to our pharmacy business which ceased operations in 2018. This increase was offset by a decrease in long-term incentive compensation expense in 2019 resulting from the adoption of a retirement policy for certain officers of the Company in 2018.

59

Corporate level charges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For a reconciliation of effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc., see "Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures" section below. 

Debt expense

Debt expense decreased primarily due to a decrease in our outstanding debt balance, partially offset by an increase in the overall weighted average effective interest rate on our debt in 2019. Our overall weighted average effective interest rate in 2019 was 5.01% compared to 4.96% in 2018. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on components of our debt. 

Debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges

We incurred debt prepayment, refinancing and redemption charges of $33 million in 2019 as a result of the repayment of all principal balances outstanding on our prior senior secured credit facilities and the redemption of our 5.75% senior notes. This consisted of $21 million recognized in the third quarter of 2019 related to debt discount and deferred financing cost write-offs associated with the portion of our prior senior secured debt that was paid in full and redemption charges on our 5.75% senior notes, as well as $12 million recognized in the second quarter of 2019 related to the accelerated amortization of debt discount and deferred financing costs associated with the portion of our prior senior secured debt that was mandatorily prepaid in or shortly after the second quarter of 2019 using proceeds from the sale of DMG and prior extensions of that debt.

Other income 

Other income consists primarily of interest income on cash and cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments, realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized on investments, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income increased in 2019 primarily due to the increase in our holdings of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in 2019. 

Provision for income taxes 

The effective income tax rate and effective income tax rate from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. decreased in 2019 primarily due to a decrease in our estimated blended state tax rate and the lower nondeductible advocacy costs in 2019 as compared to the costs incurred in 2018 to oppose certain legislative and ballot initiatives. 

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

The increase in income attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2019 as compared to 2018 was due to improved earnings at certain U.S. dialysis partnerships and an increase in the number of such partnerships.

Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures

The following tables provide reconciliations of adjusted operating income to operating income as presented on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis for our U.S. dialysis reportable segment as well as for our U.S. ancillary services, our international business, and for our total ancillary services which combines them and is disclosed as our other segments category. These non-GAAP or “adjusted” measures are presented because management believes these measures are useful adjuncts to, but not alternatives for, our GAAP results.

60

Specifically, management uses adjusted operating income to compare and evaluate our performance period over period and relative to competitors, to analyze the underlying trends in our business, to establish operational budgets and forecasts and for incentive compensation purposes. We believe this non-GAAP measure is also useful to investors and analysts in evaluating our performance over time and relative to competitors, as well as in analyzing the underlying trends in our business. We also believe this presentation enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income by excluding certain items which we do not believe are indicative of our ordinary results of operations.

In addition, our effective income tax rate on income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. excludes noncontrolling owners' income, which primarily relates to non-tax paying entities. We believe this adjusted effective income tax rate is useful to management, investors and analysts in evaluating our performance and establishing expectations for income taxes incurred on our ordinary results attributable to DaVita Inc.

It is important to bear in mind that these non-GAAP “adjusted” measures are not measures of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, nor as substitutes for, their most comparable GAAP measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

61

Accounts receivable

Our consolidated accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, were $1.796 billion and $1.859 billion, respectively, representing approximately 58 days and 62 days of revenue (DSO), respectively, net of the allowance for uncollectible accounts. The decrease in consolidated DSO was primarily due to a decrease of two days of DSO in our U.S. dialysis business primarily due to improved collections related to certain payors as well as improved DSO at our international operations. Our DSO calculation is based on the current quarter’s average revenues per day. There were no significant changes during 2019 from 2018 in the amount of unreserved accounts receivable over one year old or the amounts pending approval from third-party payors.

As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our net patient services accounts receivable balances that are more than six months old represents approximately 18% of our dialysis accounts receivable balances. Substantially all revenue realized is from government and commercial payors, as discussed above. There were no significant unreserved balances over one year old. Less than 1% of our revenues are classified as patient pay.

Amounts pending approval from third-party payors associated with Medicare bad debt claims as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, other than the standard monthly billing, consisted of approximately $138 million and $136 million, respectively, and are classified as other receivables. A significant portion of our Medicare bad debt claims are typically paid to us before the Medicare fiscal intermediary audits the claims but are subject to adjustment based upon the actual results of these audits. Such audits typically occur one to four years after the claims are filed.

62

Liquidity and capital resources

The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain columns or rows may not sum or recalculate due to the use of rounded numbers.

Consolidated cash flows

Consolidated cash flows from operating activities for 2019 were $2,072 million, of which $1,973 million was from continuing operations, compared with consolidated operating cash flows for the same period in 2018 of $1,772 million, of which $1,481 million was from continuing operations. The increase in cash flow from continuing operations was primarily driven by an increase in operating income in 2019 as compared to 2018, driven by decreases in pharmaceutical and advocacy costs, as well as a decrease in DSO of approximately four days and cash tax payments.

Cash flows from investing activities in 2019 increased $4,001 million compared to 2018 primarily due to the net cash proceeds received from the DMG sale, which closed in June 2019, as well as a decrease in capital and acquisition expenditures. We developed 38 fewer centers and acquired 23 fewer centers in 2019 compared to 2018. See below for additional information regarding the growth in our dialysis centers.

Cash flows used in financing activities increased $4,071 million in 2019 compared to 2018. Significant financing activities included net payments of $2,080 million on debt during 2019. Net debt payments primarily consisted of principal prepayments totaling $5,142 million on our term debt under our prior senior secured credit facility funded primarily by the net proceeds from the DMG sale and the redemption of all of our outstanding 5.75% senior notes due in 2022 for an aggregate cash payment consisting of principal and redemption premium of $1,262 million, partially offset by funding of our term debt of $4,500 million under our new senior secured credit facility. In addition, we incurred deferred financing costs related to our new 

63

term debt and a cap premium fee for our forward interest rate cap agreements. By comparison, 2018 included net advances of $695 million, which included a $995 million draw on our prior Term Loan A-2 and net payments of $125 million on our prior revolving line of credit, net of scheduled principal payments on our term debt under our prior senior secured credit facility. See further discussion in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements related to debt activities. Cash flows used for share repurchases increased in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to our modified Dutch auction tender offer (Tender Offer). See below for further information on our share repurchases. 

Dialysis center capacity and growth

The table below shows the growth in our dialysis operations by number of dialysis centers owned or operated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes dialysis centers in which we own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties.

(2)Dialysis centers that were sold and/or closed for which patients were not retained.

(3)Dialysis centers that were closed for which the majority of patients were retained and transferred to existing outpatient dialysis centers.

Stock repurchases

The following table summarizes our repurchases of our common stock during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Subsequent to December 31, 2019, we have repurchased 290,904 shares of our common stock for $22 million at an average cost of $74.92 per share from January 1, 2020 through February 20, 2020. We retired all shares of common stock held in treasury effective December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.

See further discussion in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.

Available liquidity

As of December 31, 2019, our cash balance was $1.102 billion and we had approximately $12 million in short-term investments. As of December 31, 2019, we also had an undrawn $1.0 billion revolving line of credit under our senior secured credit facilities, of which approximately $13 million was committed for outstanding letters of credit. We also have approximately $60 million of additional outstanding letters of credit under a separate bilateral secured letter of credit facility.

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and their interest rates.

We believe that our cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, including from amounts available under our new senior secured credit facilities and our access to the capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our scheduled debt service 

64

under the terms of our debt agreements and other obligations for the foreseeable future, including the next 12 months. Our primary recurrent sources of liquidity are cash from operations and cash from borrowings, which are subject to general, economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, as described in Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading "The level of our current and future debt could have an adverse impact on our business, and our ability to generate cash to service our indebtedness and for other intended purposes depends on many factors beyond our control."

Off-balance sheet arrangements and aggregate contractual obligations

In addition to the debt obligations and operating lease liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, we have commitments associated with letters of credit, as well as potential obligations associated with our equity investments in nonconsolidated businesses and to dialysis ventures that are wholly-owned by third parties. We have potential obligations to purchase the noncontrolling interests held by third parties in many of our majority-owned partnerships and other nonconsolidated entities. These obligations are in the form of put provisions that are exercisable at the third-party owners’ discretion within specified periods as outlined in each specific put provision. If these put provisions were exercised, we would be required to purchase the third-party owners’ equity interests, generally at the appraised fair market value of the equity interests or in certain cases at a predetermined multiple of earnings or cash flows attributable to the equity interests put to us, intended to approximate fair value. The methodology we use to estimate the fair values of noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions assumes the higher of either a liquidation value of net assets or an average multiple of earnings, based on historical earnings, patient mix and other performance indicators that can affect future results, as well as other factors. The estimated fair values of noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions are a critical accounting estimate that involves significant judgments and assumptions and may not be indicative of the actual values at which the noncontrolling interests may ultimately be settled, which could vary significantly from our current estimates. The estimated fair values of noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions can fluctuate and the implicit multiple of earnings at which these noncontrolling interests obligations may be settled will vary significantly depending upon market conditions including potential purchasers’ access to the capital markets, which can impact the level of competition for dialysis and non-dialysis related businesses, the economic performance of these businesses and the restricted marketability of the third-party owners’ equity interests. The amount of noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions that employ a contractually predetermined multiple of earnings rather than fair value are immaterial. For additional information see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.

We also have certain other potential commitments to provide operating capital to several dialysis businesses that are wholly-owned by third parties or in which we own a noncontrolling equity interest as well as to physician-owned vascular access clinics or medical practices that we operate under management and administrative services agreements.

The following is a summary of these contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our long-term debt and related interest rates. 

(2)See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for components of our leases and related interest rates. 

65

In 2017, the Company entered into a Sourcing and Supply Agreement with Amgen USA Inc. (Amgen) that expires on December 31, 2022. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will purchase EPO from Amgen in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of its requirements for erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) through the expiration of the contract. The actual amount of EPO that the Company will purchase will depend upon the amount of EPO administered during dialysis as prescribed by physicians and the overall number of patients that the Company serves.

The Company has an agreement with Fresenius Medical Care (FMC) to purchase a certain amount of dialysis equipment, parts and supplies from FMC, which extends through December 31, 2020. The Company also has agreements with Baxter Healthcare Corporation (Baxter) that commit the Company to purchase certain amounts of dialysis supplies at fixed prices through 2022. If the Company fails to meet the minimum purchase commitments under these contracts during any year, it is required to pay the difference to the supplier.

Settlements of approximately $83 million of existing income tax liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, penalties and other long-term tax liabilities, are excluded from the above table as reasonably reliable estimates of their timing cannot be made.

Contingencies

The information in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report is incorporated by reference in response to this item.

Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments

Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities, contingencies and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions (redeemable equity interests). All significant estimates, judgments and assumptions are developed based on the best information available to us at the time made and are regularly reviewed and updated when necessary. Actual results will generally differ from these estimates, and such differences may be material. Changes in estimates are reflected in our financial statements in the period of change based upon on-going actual experience trends or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Interim changes in estimates are applied prospectively within annual periods. Certain accounting estimates, including those concerning revenue recognition and accounts receivable, impairments of goodwill, accounting for income taxes, and fair value estimates are considered to be critical to evaluating and understanding our financial results because they involve inherently uncertain matters and their application requires the most difficult and complex judgments and estimates. For additional information, see Part II Item 15, "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" – Note 1 – "Organization and summary of significant accounting policies" as referred from Part II Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

U.S. dialysis revenue recognition and accounts receivable. There are significant estimating risks associated with the amount of U.S. dialysis revenue that we recognize in a given reporting period. Payment rates are often subject to significant uncertainties related to wide variations in the coverage terms of the commercial healthcare plans under which we receive payments. In addition, ongoing insurance coverage changes, geographic coverage differences, differing interpretations of contract coverage, and other payor issues complicate the billing and collection process. Net revenue recognition and allowances for uncollectible billings require the use of estimates of the amounts that will ultimately be realized considering, among other items, retroactive adjustments that may be associated with regulatory reviews, audits, billing reviews and other matters.

Revenues associated with Medicare and Medicaid programs are recognized based on (a) the payment rates that are established by statute or regulation for the portion of the payment rates paid by the government payor (e.g., 80% for Medicare patients) and (b) for the portion not paid by the primary government payor, the estimated amounts that will ultimately be collectible from other government programs providing secondary coverage (e.g., Medicaid secondary coverage), the patient’s commercial health plan secondary coverage, or the patient. Our dialysis related reimbursements from Medicare are subject to certain variations under Medicare’s single bundled payment rate system whereby our reimbursements can be adjusted for certain patient characteristics and other variable factors. Our revenue recognition depends upon our ability to effectively capture, document and bill for Medicare’s base payment rate and these other factors. In addition, as a result of the potential range of variations that can occur in our dialysis-related reimbursements from Medicare under the single bundled payment rate system, our revenue recognition is subject to a greater degree of estimating risk.

66

Commercial healthcare plans, including contracted managed-care payors, are billed at our usual and customary rates; however, revenue is recognized based on estimated net realizable revenue for the services provided. Net realizable revenue is estimated based on contractual terms for the patients covered under commercial healthcare plans with which we have formal agreements, non-contracted commercial healthcare plan coverage terms if known, estimated secondary collections, historical collection experience, historical trends of refunds and payor payment adjustments (retractions), inefficiencies in our billing and collection processes that can result in denied claims for payments, the estimated timing of collections, changes in our expectations of the amounts that we expect to collect and regulatory compliance matters. Determining applicable primary and secondary coverage for our approximately 206,900 U.S. dialysis patients at any point in time, together with the changes in patient coverages that occur each month, requires complex, resource-intensive processes. Collections, refunds and payor retractions typically continue to occur for up to three years or longer after services are provided.

We generally expect the range of our U.S. dialysis revenue estimating risk to be within 1% of revenue, which can represent as much as approximately 5% of our U.S. dialysis business’s adjusted operating income. Changes in estimates are reflected in the then-current financial statements based on on-going actual experience trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies. Changes in revenue estimates for prior periods are separately disclosed and reported if material to the current reporting period and longer term trend analyses, and have not been significant.

Revenues for laboratory services, which are integrally related to our dialysis services, are recognized in the period services are provided at the estimated net realizable amounts to be received.

Impairments of goodwill. We account for impairments of goodwill in accordance with the provisions of applicable accounting guidance. Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed for impairment when changes in circumstances warrant and at least annually. An impairment charge is recorded when and to the extent a reporting unit's carrying amount is determined to exceed its estimated fair value.

Changes in circumstance that may trigger a goodwill impairment assessment for one of our business units can include, among others, changes in the legal environment, addressable market, business strategy, development or business plans, reimbursement structure, operating performance, future prospects, relationships with partners, and/or market value indications for the subject business. We use a variety of factors to assess changes in the financial condition, future prospects and other circumstances concerning the subject businesses and to estimate their fair value when applicable. Any change in the factors, assessments or assumptions involved could affect a determination of whether and when to assess goodwill for impairment as well as the outcome of such an assessment. These assessments and the related valuations can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters, some of which could be subject to reasonable disagreement.

Accounting for income taxes. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous state and foreign jurisdictions, and changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. The actual impact of any such laws or regulations could be materially different from our current estimates.

Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, results of recent operations, and assumptions about the amount of future federal, state, and foreign pre-tax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgments and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. To the extent that recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance is established. The allowance is regularly reviewed and updated for changes in circumstances that would cause a change in judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax assets.

Fair value estimates. The FASB defines fair value generally as the amount at which an asset (or liability) could be bought (or incurred) or sold (or settled) in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. It also defines fair value more specifically for most purposes as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 

We rely on fair value measurements and estimates for purposes that require the recording, reassessment, or adjustment of the carrying amounts of certain assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions (redeemable equity interests). These purposes can include purchase accounting for business combination transactions; impairment assessments for goodwill, other intangible assets, and other long-lived assets; recurrent revaluation of investments in debt and equity securities, 

67

interest rate cap agreements or other derivative instruments, contingent earn-out obligations, and noncontrolling interests subject to put provisions; and the accounting for equity method and other investments and stock-based compensation, among others. The criticality of a particular fair value estimate to our consolidated financial statements depends upon the nature and size of the item being measured, the extent of uncertainties involved and the nature and magnitude or potential effect of assumptions and judgments required. Critical fair value estimates can involve significant uncertainties and require significant judgment on various matters, some of which could be subject to reasonable disagreement.

Loss contingencies. As discussed in Notes 1 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements, we operate in a highly regulated industry and are party to various lawsuits, claims, qui tam suits, governmental investigations and audits (including investigations resulting from our obligation to self-report suspected violations of law), contract disputes and other legal proceedings. Assessments of such matters can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. We record accruals for loss contingencies on such matters to the extent that we determine an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for further discussion. As described in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, the final sale price for our DMG business remains subject to certain post-closing adjustments under its equity purchase agreement which could have a material effect on the total sale proceeds we retain or the total amount of our loss on sale of this business.

Significant new accounting standards

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for information regarding certain recent financial accounting standards that have been issued by the FASB.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.