Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following section discusses management's view of the financial condition and results of operations of FIS and its consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 and for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.

This section should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of FIS included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section.

Business Trends and Conditions

Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of technology and processing services, payment transaction fees, professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring, and has been provided under multi-year contracts in Banking and Capital Markets that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. Although Merchant has a lesser percentage of multi-year contracts, a substantial part of its revenue is recurring. A considerable portion of our recurring revenue is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of accounts and card transactions, among other variable measures, associated with consumer, commercial and capital markets activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, though recognition often occurs over time rather than at a point in time. Sales of software licenses are typically non-recurring with recognition at a point in time and are less predictable. 

We continue to assist financial institutions in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve.

Over the last four years, we have moved approximately 60% of our server compute to our FIS cloud located in our strategic data centers and our goal is to increase that percentage to 73% by the end of 2020 and approximately 80% by the end of 2021. This allows us to further enhance security for our clients' data and increases the flexibility and speed with which we can provide services and solutions to our clients, eventually at lesser cost. Concurrently, we have continued to consolidate our data centers, closing seven additional data centers in 2019. Our consolidation has generated a savings for the Company as of year-end 2019 exceeding $170 million in run rate annual expense reduction since the program's inception in mid-2016. We plan to close and consolidate approximately 13 more data centers by the end of 2021, which should result in additional run rate annual expense reduction of approximately $80 million.

We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions and services in order to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, financial and other technology providers, and emerging technology innovators. We invest both organically and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal efforts in research and development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietary core systems in each of our segments, design and development of next generation digital and innovative solutions and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We have increased our investments in these areas in each of the last three years. Our innovation efforts have recently resulted in bringing to market our Modern Banking Platform that is among the first cloud-native core banking solutions. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. 

Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience extends to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts, servicing of existing accounts, providing money movement services, and personal financial management, as well as other consumer, small 

 37
business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems.

We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to the profitability of the financial technology industry. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform inhouse some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. 

In certain of the international markets in which we do business, we continue to experience growth on a constant currency basis. Demand for our solutions may also continue to be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aiming to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in the U.K., Germany, Brazil, India, Canada and Australia. For the full year of 2020, we do not expect a material impact to revenue due to foreign currency translation, although the actual amount of impact is uncertain due to the many factors that affect exchange rates. 

As a result of the Worldpay acquisition, FIS is now a global leader in the merchant solutions industry, with differentiated solutions throughout the payments market, including capabilities in global eCommerce, U.S. integrated payments, and enterprise payments and data security solutions in business-to-business ("B2B") payments. These solutions bring together advanced payments technologies at each stage of the transaction life cycle. The Worldpay acquisition, which was completed on July 31, 2019, broadens our solution portfolio, enabling us to significantly expand our merchant acquiring solutions, including our capabilities in the growing eCommerce and integrated payments segments of the market, which are in demand among our merchant clients as they look for ways to integrate technology into their business models. The combination also favorably impacts our business mix with a greater concentration in higher growth and higher margin services. As we integrate Worldpay into our existing operations, we anticipate the potential to achieve incremental revenue opportunities and annual synergy run-rate savings. 

Following the Worldpay acquisition, we are focused on completing post-merger integration to achieve potential incremental revenue opportunities and expense efficiencies created by the combination of the two companies. We have a history of successfully integrating the operations and technology platforms of acquired companies, including winding down legacy environments and consolidating platforms from other acquisitions into our environment. Based on prior integration experience, we developed integration plans to achieve the potential benefits created by the Worldpay acquisition. As of the end of 2019, our achievement of expense and revenue synergies is ahead of schedule.

We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. Our acquisition of Worldpay will help position us to capitalize on this demand. The payment processing industry is adopting new technologies, developing new products and services, evolving new business models and being affected by new market entrants and an evolving regulatory environment. As merchants and financial institutions respond to these changes by seeking services to help them enhance their own offerings to consumers, including the ability to accept card-not-present ("CNP") payments in eCommerce and mobile environments as well as contactless cards and mobile wallets at the point-of-sale, FIS believes that payment processors will seek to develop additional capabilities in order to serve clients' evolving needs. In order to facilitate this expansion, we believe that payment processors will need to enhance their technology platforms so they can deliver these capabilities and differentiate their offerings from other providers.

We believe that these market changes present both an opportunity and a risk for us, and we cannot predict which emerging technologies or solutions will be successful. However, FIS believes that payment processors, like FIS, that have scalable, integrated business models, provide solutions across the payment processing value chain and utilize broad distribution capabilities will be best positioned to enable emerging alternative electronic payment technologies. Further, FIS believes that its depth of capabilities and breadth of distribution will enhance its position as emerging payment technologies are adopted by merchants and other businesses. FIS' ability to partner with non-financial institution enterprises, such as mobile payment providers, internet, retail and social media companies, could create attractive growth opportunities as these new entrants seek to 

 38
become more active participants in the development of alternative electronic payment technologies and to facilitate the convergence of retail, online, mobile and social commerce applications.

Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. 

FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry.

For 2019, the Worldpay acquisition significantly increased our revenue as well as our amortization expense for acquired intangibles and our acquisition, integration and other costs. Also, as described in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on December 31, 2018, FIS closed the transaction to unwind the Brazilian Venture with Banco Bradesco. The results of the Brazilian Venture that were spun-off in the transaction were included within the Banking segment. On July 31, 2017, we sold a majority interest in certain of our consulting businesses to affiliates of CD&R. These businesses had lower margins than many of our other businesses. The consulting businesses sold were included within the Capital Markets segment. Also, on February 1, 2017, we sold our PS&E business, which had been included in our Corporate and Other segment. The Worldpay acquisition and these divestitures affect the comparability of our results of operations for the 2019, 2018 and 2017 periods presented. 

Critical Accounting Policies

The accounting policies described below are those we consider critical in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures with respect to contingent liabilities and assets at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed description of the significant accounting policies that have been followed in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

The Company generates revenue in a number of ways, including from the delivery of account- or transaction-based processing, SaaS, BPaaS, cloud offerings, software licensing, software-related services and professional services. Our contracts frequently contain non-standard terms that require judgment to determine the appropriate impact on revenue recognition. We are frequently a party to multiple concurrent contracts with the same client. These situations require judgment to determine whether the individual contracts should be combined or evaluated separately for purposes of revenue recognition. In making this determination, we consider the timing of negotiating and executing the contracts, whether the different elements of the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective, whether the solutions or services promised in the contracts are a single performance obligation, and whether any of the payment terms of the contracts are interrelated. Our individual contracts also frequently include multiple promised solutions or services. At contract inception, we assess the solutions and services promised in our contracts with customers and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a solution or service (or bundle of solutions or services) that is distinct - i.e., if a solution or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. We must apply judgment in these circumstances in determining whether individual promised solutions or services can be considered distinct or should instead be combined with other promised solutions or services in the contract. We recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a solution or service to a customer. We must use judgment to determine the appropriate measure of progress for performance obligations satisfied over time and the timing of when the customer obtains control for performance obligations satisfied at a point in time. Judgment is also required in estimating and allocating variable consideration to one or more, but not all, performance obligations in a contract, determining the standalone selling prices of each performance obligation, and allocating the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation in a contract.

 39
Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of individual contracts we are party to, the impact of judgments and assumptions that we apply in recognizing revenue for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated operations or financial position. However, the broader accounting policy assumptions that we apply across similar contracts or classes of clients could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our historical and future results of operations or financial position. Additional information about our revenue recognition policies is included in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Software

Software includes the fair value of software acquired in business combinations, purchased software and capitalized software development costs. Purchased software is recorded at cost and amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life, which is generally three to five years. Software acquired in business combinations is recorded at its fair value and amortized using straight-line or accelerated methods over its estimated useful life, which is one to 10 years (see also the Purchase Accounting section below). As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, software, net, was $3.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, and amortization of software was $616 million, $468 million, and $436 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Balances related to acquired software represent a significant portion of these balances, particularly for the period after the acquisition of Worldpay, which resulted in acquired software of $1.3 billion.

The capitalization of software development costs is governed by FASB ASC Subtopic 985-20 if the software is to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, or by FASB ASC Subtopic 350-40 if the software is for internal use. After the technological feasibility of the software has been established (for software to be marketed), or at the beginning of application development (for internal-use software), software development costs, which include primarily salaries and related payroll costs and costs of independent contractors incurred during development, are capitalized. Research and development costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility (for software to be marketed), or prior to application development (for internal-use software), are expensed as incurred. Evaluating whether technological feasibility has been achieved requires the use of management judgment. 

Software development costs are amortized on a product-by-product basis commencing on the date of general release of the solutions (for software to be marketed) or the date placed in service (for internal-use software). Software development costs for software to be marketed are amortized using the greater of (1) the straight-line method over its estimated useful life, which ranges from three to 10 years, or (2) the ratio of current revenue to total anticipated revenue over its useful life.

In determining useful lives, management considers historical results and technological trends that may influence the estimate. Useful lives for all software range from one to 10 years. 

We also assess the recorded value of software for impairment on a regular basis by comparing the carrying value to the estimated future cash flows to be generated by the underlying software asset (net realizable value analysis for software to be marketed). There are inherent uncertainties in determining the expected useful life or cash flows to be generated from software. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded $87 million in asset impairments, primarily related to certain software to be marketed. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, we have not had more than minimal charges for impairments of software. While we have not historically experienced significant changes in these balances due to changes in estimates, our results of operations could be subject to such changes in the future.

Purchase Accounting

We are required to allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets and software, are complex and require a significant amount of management judgment. We generally engage third-party valuation specialists to assist us in making fair value determinations. The third-party valuation specialists generally use discounted cash flow models, which require internally-developed assumptions, to determine the acquisition fair value of customer relationship intangible assets and developed technology software assets. Assumptions for customer relationship asset valuations generally include forecasted revenue attributable to existing customer contracts and relationships, estimated annual attrition, forecasted EBITDA margin, and estimated weighted average cost of capital and discount rates. Assumptions for software asset valuations generally include forecasted revenue attributable to the software assets, obsolescence rates, estimated royalty rates and estimated weighted average cost of capital and discount rates.

If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, we are required to record provisional amounts in the financial statements for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Adjustments to provisional amounts initially recorded that are identified during the measurement 

 40
period are recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This includes any effect on earnings of changes in depreciation or amortization, or other income effects as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. During the measurement period, we are also required to recognize additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. The measurement period ends the sooner of one year from the acquisition date or when we receive the information we were seeking about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date or learn that more information is not obtainable.

We are also required to estimate the useful lives of intangible assets to determine the amount of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization expense to record in future periods. We periodically review the estimated useful lives assigned to our finite-lived intangible assets to determine whether such estimated useful lives continue to be appropriate. Additionally, we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine if there is any change in circumstances that may indicate the asset's useful life is no longer indefinite.

See Note 3 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the Worldpay acquisition in 2019. We had no significant business combinations during 2018. 

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should not be amortized, but shall be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. FASB ASC Subtopic 350-20 allows an entity first to assess qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, referred to in the guidance as "step zero." If an entity concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent), the "step one" quantitative assessment must be performed for that reporting unit. FASB ASC Subtopic 350-20 provides examples of events and circumstances that should be considered in performing the step zero qualitative assessment, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, events affecting a reporting unit or the entity as a whole and a sustained decrease in share price. Performance of a qualitative impairment assessment requires judgment.  

When applying the quantitative analysis, we determine the fair value of our reporting units based on a weighted average of multiple valuation techniques, principally a combination of an income approach and a market approach. The income approach calculates a value based upon the present value of estimated future cash flows, while the market approach uses earnings multiples of similarly situated guideline public companies. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the reporting unit's net assets, goodwill is not impaired and further testing is not required. 

 We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. For each of 2019, 2018, and 2017, we began our annual impairment test with the step zero qualitative assessment. In performing the step zero qualitative assessment for each year, examining those factors most likely to affect our valuations, we concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units continued to exceed their carrying amounts. Consequently, we did not perform a step one quantitative assessment for the purpose of our annual impairment test for these years. 

Similar to the FASB ASC Subtopic 350-20 guidance for goodwill, FASB ASC Subtopic 350-30 allows an organization to first perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset has been impaired. We assess indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. For each of 2019, 2018 and 2017, we performed a qualitative assessment examining those factors most likely to affect our valuations and concluded that it is more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets were not impaired. Consequently, we did not perform a quantitative impairment assessment for the purpose of our annual impairment test for these years. 

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which include assumptions regarding forecasted revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures, tax rates, and other factors used to calculate estimated future cash flows. In addition, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions and other assumptions are applied. Goodwill was $52.2 billion and $13.5 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and indefinite-lived intangible assets were $43 million as of each of December 31, 2019 and 2018. As a result, a meaningful change in one or more of the underlying forecasts, estimates, or assumptions used in testing these assets for impairment could result in a material impact on the 

 41
Company's results of operations and financial position. However, based on the qualitative assessment performed and because there was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value in our previous third-party valuations performed in 2015 for goodwill and 2016 for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we believe the likelihood of obtaining materially different results based on a change of assumptions is low. 

Related Party Transactions

We are a party to certain historical related party agreements as discussed in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Factors Affecting Comparability

For information regarding factors affecting comparability, see "Item 6. Selected Financial Data." As a result of the transactions noted in Item 6. Selected Financial Data, our financial position, results of operations, earnings per share and cash flows in the periods covered by the Consolidated Financial Statements may not be directly comparable.

Consolidated Results of Operations

(In millions, except per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Revenue for 2019 increased $1,910 million, or 22.7% from 2018 primarily due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition and increased sales across our business lines as discussed in our Segment Results of Operations below. 

Revenue for 2018 decreased $245 million, or 2.8% from 2017, due to (1) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Capco consulting business and the risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017; (2) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017; (3) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018; and (4) lower volumes in the trading services and data business. These decreases were partially offset by (1) increased volumes in debit, loyalty and Latin America payments; (2) growth in wealth outsourcing, core solutions and digital banking; (3) strong demand for private equity and 

 42
insurance offerings; and (4) growth in the biller solutions business. Additionally, 2018 was impacted by a $40 million unfavorable foreign currency impact primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real.

Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit

Cost of revenue totaled $6,610 million, $5,569 million and $5,794 million during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, resulting in gross profit of $3,723 million, $2,854 million and $2,874 million, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue ("gross margin") was 36.0%, 33.9% and 33.2% in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in gross profit for 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The gross profit percentage for 2019 as compared to 2018 benefited from higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition, partially offset by higher acquired intangible asset amortization expense.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2019 increased $1,366 million, or 105.0% from 2018. The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by (1) incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses and (2) higher acquisition, integration and other costs of $704 million in 2019 as compared to $156 million in 2018. These increases were partially offset by (1) the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware during the fourth quarter of 2018 and (2) the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2018 decreased $141 million, or 9.8% from 2017. The year-over-year decrease is primarily driven by the sale of PS&E during the first quarter of 2017, the sale of the Capco consulting business and risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017, the sale of Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018 and cost management initiatives.

Asset Impairments

During 2019, the Company recorded pre-tax asset impairments totaling $87 million, primarily related to certain software resulting from the Company's net realizable value analysis.

During 2018, as a result of entering into an agreement to unwind the Brazilian Venture that the Company operated with Banco Bradesco, the Company recorded pre-tax asset impairments totaling $95 million, including $42 million for the Brazilian Venture contract intangible asset, $25 million for goodwill, and $28 million for the assets being held for sale that were transferred to Banco Bradesco upon closing of the agreement (see Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Operating Income

Operating income totaled $969 million, $1,458 million and $1,432 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue ("operating margin") was 9.4%, 17.3% and 16.5% for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The annual changes in operating income resulted from the revenue and cost variances addressed above. The change in operating margin during 2019 was negatively impacted by higher acquired intangible asset amortization expense, higher acquisition, integration and other costs and asset impairments of $87 million related to certain software. The change in operating margin during 2018 was negatively impacted by asset impairments of $95 million related to the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture. Notwithstanding the asset impairments, however, operating margins improved primarily from cost management initiatives and the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017. 

Total Other Income (Expense), Net

Interest expense is typically the primary component of Total other income (expense), net.

The increase of $75 million in interest expense in 2019 as compared to 2018 is primarily due to higher outstanding debt, partially offset by a lower weighted average interest rate on the outstanding debt and an increase in interest income on the proceeds from the Worldpay acquisition-related debt issuances prior to closing.

The decrease of $45 million in interest expense in 2018 as compared to 2017 is primarily due to a lower weighted average interest rate on the outstanding debt and benefits realized from interest rate swaps executed in the fourth quarter of 2018, which are discussed in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

 43
Other income (expense), net for 2019 includes a pre-tax charge of approximately $217 million in tender premiums and fees and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs on the early redemption of approximately $3.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of our senior notes as well as approximately $33 million of acquisition financing costs related to the acquisition of Worldpay. These items were partially offset by the non-cash foreign currency gain on non-hedged Euro- and Pound Sterling-denominated notes issued to finance the Worldpay acquisition, during the period from the date of issue of the notes to the date of the acquisition. 

Other income (expense), net for 2018 includes a pre-tax loss of $54 million on the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America and $12 million to unwind the Brazilian Venture, partially offset by a pre-tax gain of $19 million on the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware.

Other income (expense), net for 2017 includes (1) a pre-tax charge of $171 million in tender premiums and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs on the repurchase of approximately $2.0 billion in aggregate principal of our senior notes; (2) a net pre-tax loss of $29 million on the sale of the Capco consulting and risk and compliance business and other divestitures; (3) a pre-tax charge of approximately $25 million due to the redemption of our senior notes and the pay down of term loans, consisting of the call premium on the senior notes and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs; partially offset by (4) a pre-tax gain of $85 million on the sale of the PS&E business, an $8 million pre-tax gain on an investment sale and a $12 million foreign currency gain.

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes

Provision (benefit) for income taxes from continuing operations totaled $100 million, $208 million and $(321) million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This resulted in an effective tax rate on continuing operations of 24.2%, 18.8% and (32.9)% for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The effective tax rate for the 2019 period included a detriment of $44 million due to non-deductible executive stock compensation primarily driven by acceleration of converted heritage Worldpay stock compensation awards and the accrual of additional stock compensation due to reaching certain Worldpay synergy targets and a detriment of $21 million due to the post-acquisition combined state income tax rates. The effective tax rate for the 2018 period included the impact of the reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% due to tax reform enacted December 22, 2017, and a net detriment of $33 million due to the book basis in excess of the tax basis of certain businesses sold during the year. The effective tax rate for the 2017 period included a net benefit of $761 million related to tax reform items including $48 million of tax credits due to tax planning strategies implemented in the fourth quarter and a net detriment of $180 million due to the book basis in excess of the tax basis of certain businesses sold during the year.

Equity Method Investment Earnings (Loss)

FIS holds a 38% equity interest in Cardinal as further described in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, we recorded equity method investment losses of $10 million, $15 million and $3 million during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Net (Earnings) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest

Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest for 2018 and 2017 predominantly relates to the joint venture in Brazil (see Notes 18 and 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and totaled $(5) million, $(35) million and $(33) million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Net Earnings Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders

Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $298 million, $846 million and $1,261 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, or $0.66, $2.55 and $3.75 per diluted share, respectively, due to the factors described above coupled with the impact of our share repurchase initiatives.

Segment Results of Operations

As a result of the Company's acquisition of Worldpay, the Company reorganized its reportable segments and recast all prior-period segment information presented to align with the new reportable segments. The new segments are Merchant Solutions ("Merchant"), Banking Solutions ("Banking"), and Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets"), which are organized based on the markets and clients served aligned with the solutions they provide, as well as the Corporate and Other segment. A description of these segments is included in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 44
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA (defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization) plus certain non-operating items. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments; acquisition, integration and certain other costs; and asset impairments. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of our adjustments to EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Merchant Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year ended December 31, 2019:

Revenue increased $1,737 million due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition totaling $1,722 million and heritage FIS merchant solutions growth of $27 million.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $935 million and adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 49.4% resulting from higher margin incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition.

Year ended December 31, 2018:

Revenue increased $15 million, or 5.7%, driven by growth in the biller solutions business.

Adjusted EBITDA decreased $9 million, or 13.2%, and adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 470 basis points to 21.4% primarily resulting from an increase in lower margin revenue due to biller solutions growth, along with an increase in cost of goods sold.

Banking Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year ended December 31, 2019:

Revenue increased $161 million, or 2.8%, due to (1) incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition contributing 3.1%; (2) increased termination fees contributing 0.8%; and (3) other items contributing an aggregate of 3.2% due in part to license and professional services growth in the wealth and retirement business, strong network and back-office volumes, and growth in the card production business. These items were partially offset by (1) the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture offset in part by the new commercial agreement with Banco Bradesco and growth in Latin America payments contributing (3.0%) and (2) the reduction in revenue from the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware business contributing (0.6%). Banking Solutions had an unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (0.7%), or approximately $37 million, driven primarily by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real and Euro.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $198 million, or 8.8%, primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 230 basis points to 41.8% primarily resulting from positive revenue mix, the addition of higher margin Worldpay revenue, and the unwinding of lower margin Brazilian Venture revenue. 

 45
Year ended December 31, 2018:

Revenue increased $160 million, or 2.9%, with processing and other recurring revenue contributing 3.8% due in part to growth in wealth outsourcing, core solutions and digital banking, along with increased volumes in debit, loyalty, and Latin America payments. Non-recurring revenue contributed 0.4% to growth. These items were partially offset by the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business contributing (0.4%) and an unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (0.9%), or approximately $49 million, driven primarily by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $155 million, or 7.4%, primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above and continued cost management. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 170 basis points to 39.5% primarily driven by a revenue mix shift and operating efficiencies.

Capital Market Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year ended December 31, 2019:

Revenue increased $56 million, or 2.3%, primarily due to (1) strong managed services growth, partially offset by a decline in trading volumes, contributing 1.3% and (2) the remaining revenue contributing 1.8% primarily due to increased demand for risk and compliance offerings. These items were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (0.8%) or approximately $20 million, primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $48 million, or 4.4%, and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 90 basis points to 46.1%, due to continued cost management.

Year ended December 31, 2018:

Revenue decreased $358 million, or 13.0%, primarily due to the sale of the Capco consulting business and other divestitures contributing (13.4%). This was partially offset by favorable currency impact contributing 0.2%, or approximately $6 million, driven by a weaker U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. The remaining 0.2% contribution was primarily due to strong demand for private equity and insurance offerings, partially offset by a decline in trading volumes. 

Adjusted EBITDA increased $1 million, or 0.1%, and adjusted EBITDA margins increased 590 basis points to 45.2% primarily resulting from the positive impact of the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017, as well as continued cost management.

Corporate and Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from non-strategic businesses, including the PS&E business (which was divested on February 1, 2017) and the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America (which was divested on August 31, 2018). 

Year ended December 31, 2019:

Revenue decreased $44 million, or 100.0%, due to the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018.

 46
Adjusted EBITDA decreased $110 million, or 41.8%, primarily due to incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses and increased corporate health care and other benefit plan expenses.

Year ended December 31, 2018:

Revenue decreased $62 million, or 58.5%, primarily due to the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017 and Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018.

Adjusted EBITDA increased $2 million, or 0.8%, primarily from a reduction in infrastructure technology expenses and the results of our data center consolidation program, partially offset by the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017 and Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Requirements

Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, tax receivable obligations, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, the U.S. commercial paper program and the Euro-commercial paper program described in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.2 billion and debt of $20.2 billion, including the current portion, net of capitalized debt issuance costs. Approximately $570 million of cash and cash equivalents is held by our foreign entities. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next 12 months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service.

We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.35 per common share is payable on March 27, 2020 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 13, 2020. 

On July 20, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $4.0 billion of our outstanding common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2020. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. Approximately $2.3 billion of plan capacity remained available for repurchases as of December 31, 2019. Management temporarily suspended share repurchases as a result of the Worldpay transaction to accelerate debt repayment.

Cash Flows from Operations

Cash flows from operations were $2,410 million, $1,993 million and $1,741 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization. Cash flows from operations increased $417 million in 2019 and $252 million in 2018. The 2019 increase in cash flows from operations is primarily due to increased cash flow due to the Worldpay acquisition, partially offset by the timing of working capital and Worldpay acquisition transaction- and integration-related expenses. The 2018 increase in cash flows from operations is primarily due to lower trade receivables from increased collections resulting from a reduction in days sales outstanding. These increases were partially offset by U.S. federal estimated income tax payments normally due in the third and fourth quarters of 2017 that were paid during the first quarter of 2018 due to the Hurricane Irma Relief Program and timing of working capital.

Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities

Our principal capital expenditures are for software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $828 million, $622 million and $613 million in capital expenditures (excluding other financing obligations for certain hardware and software) during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In 2020, we expect to 

 47
continue investing in property and equipment, purchased software and internally developed software to support our core business initiatives. We expect to invest a similar percentage of our 2020 revenue in capital expenditures as in previous years.

In 2019, we used $6,629 million of cash (net of cash acquired, including restricted cash) for the Worldpay acquisition. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

In 2017, cash flows from investing activities included proceeds from the sale of businesses and investments primarily relating to the sale of PS&E and the Capco consulting and risk and compliance businesses. 

Financing

For more information regarding the Company's debt and financing activity, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Contractual Obligations

FIS' long-term contractual obligations generally include its long-term debt, interest on long-term debt, lease payments on certain of its property and equipment and payments for certain purchase commitments and other obligations. The following table summarizes FIS' significant contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2019 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The principal amounts assume no changes in currency rates for our notes denominated in Euro and GBP. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.

(2)The calculations above assume that (a) applicable margins and commitment fees remain constant; (b) all floating-rate debt is priced at the rates in effect as of December 31, 2019; (c) no refinancing occurs at debt maturity; (d) only mandatory debt repayments are made; (e) no new hedging transactions are effected; and (f) there are no currency effects. 

(3)Includes obligations principally related to software, maintenance support, and telecommunication and network services as well as to third-party processors to provide gateway authorization and other processing services. 

(4)Obligation represents estimated Tax Receivable Agreement ("TRA") payments to Fifth Third Bank. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

FIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance

In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02 ("ASU 2018-02"), Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects From Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. ASU 2018-02 allows companies to elect whether to reclassify from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings the tax effects of items within accumulated other comprehensive income, referred to as stranded tax effects, resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. FIS adopted ASU 2018-02 on January 1, 2019, and did not elect to reclassify the income tax effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. As a result, the adoption of this ASU did not have an impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.

 48
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. Topic 842 was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-01, Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842; ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases; ASU No. 2018-11, Targeted Improvements; ASU No. 2018-20, Leases (Topic 842): Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors; and ASU No. 2019-1, Leases (Topic 842): Codification Improvements (collectively, the "new standard"). The new standard establishes a right-of-use ("ROU") model that requires a lessee to recognize an ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than 12 months. Leases are classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and classification of expense recognition in the income statement. Under the new standard, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. 

The new standard is effective for public business entities on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective transition approach is required, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application. An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date (the "effective date method") or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application. If an entity chooses the second option, the transition requirements for existing leases also apply to leases entered into between the date of initial application and the effective date. The entity must also recast its comparative period financial statements and provide the disclosures required by the new standard for the comparative periods. FIS adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2019 using the effective date method. Consequently, financial information was not updated and the disclosures required under the new standard were not provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.

The new standard provides several optional practical expedients in transition and for an entity's ongoing accounting. We elected the "package of practical expedients," which permits us not to reassess under the new standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. We also elected the practical expedient not to separate lease and non-lease components. We did not elect the use-of-hindsight practical expedient nor the short-term lease recognition exemption. 

The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets and lease liabilities on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet of $442 million and $446 million, respectively, on January 1, 2019. The standard did not impact our results of operations or cash flows. The Company's accounting for finance leases, which are immaterial, remained substantially unchanged. 

Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted 

On August 29, 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15 ("ASU 2018-15"), Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract. This ASU clarifies that implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements should be deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement, if those costs would be capitalized by the customer in a software licensing arrangement under the internal-use software guidance. The provisions in ASU 2018-15 should be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. For public business entities, ASU 2018-15 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods, with early adoption permitted. We will prospectively adopt the new guidance effective January 1, 2020. We expect that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 ("ASU 2016-13"), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurements on Credit Losses of Financial Instruments. This ASU was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (collectively, "Topic 326"). The primary objectives of Topic 326 are to implement new methodology for calculating credit losses on financial instruments, such as trade receivables, based on expected credit losses and to broaden the types of information companies must use when calculating the estimated losses. Under current guidance, the credit losses are calculated based on multiple credit impairment objectives and recognition is delayed until the loss is probable to occur. Under the new guidance, financial assets measured at amortized cost basis must be shown as the net amount expected to be collected. The credit loss allowance is a contra-valuation account. The new guidance also applies to receivables arising from revenue transactions such as contract assets. For public business entities, Topic 326 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt the new standard effective January 1, 2020. We expect to apply a modified retrospective transition approach with a cumulative effect adjustment recorded in retained earnings as of the beginning of the year of adoption. While we are continuing to evaluate the impact, we expect that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

 49
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks