Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. We are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. Our senior management actively monitors these risks.

Interest Rate Risk

We manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. Based on our outstanding debt balances and interest rates at December 31, 2019, a 1% increase in variable interest rates would increase annual interest expense by approximately $48 million.

In connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested into short-term, highly liquid investments from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. A 1% decrease in variable interest rates would decrease annual interest-related income related to settlement assets by approximately $32 million.

Foreign Currency Risk

We conduct business globally and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-U.S. dollar-denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. We manage the exposure to these risks through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and non-derivative net investment hedges.

Our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arise from our non-U.S. operations to the extent they are conducted in local currency. In 2019, approximately 12% of our total revenue was generated outside the U.S. The major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the Euro, the British Pound, the Indian Rupee and the Argentine Peso. A movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in which our revenue and profits are denominated at 

44
December 31, 2019, would have resulted in an increase or decrease in our reported pre-tax income, including the results of First Data from the date of acquisition, of approximately $25 million as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge foreign currency exposure to our operating costs in India. At December 31, 2019, the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $178 million. In addition, we designated our foreign currency-denominated senior notes as net investment hedges to reduce exposure to changes in the value of our net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

45
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data