ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Overview

We are an agricultural sciences company, providing innovative solutions to growers around the world with a robust product portfolio fueled by a market-driven discovery and development pipeline in crop protection, plant health, and professional pest and turf management. We operate in a single distinct business segment and develop, market and sell all three major classes of crop protection chemicals: insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. These products are used in agriculture to enhance crop yield and quality by controlling a broad spectrum of insects, weeds and disease, as well as in non-agricultural markets for pest control. This powerful combination of advanced technologies includes leading insect control products based on Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® active ingredients; Authority®, Boral®, Centium®, Command® and Gamit® branded herbicides; Talstar® and Hero® branded insecticides; and flutriafol-based fungicides. The FMC portfolio also includes biologicals such as Quartzo® and Presence® bionematicides. 

2019 Highlights

The following are the more significant developments in our businesses during the year ended December 31, 2019:

•Revenue of $4,609.8 million in 2019 increased $324.5 million or approximately 8 percent versus last year. A more detailed review of revenues is included under the section entitled “Results of Operations”. On a regional basis, sales in North America increased 3 percent, sales in Latin America increased by 19 percent, primarily from growth driven by higher volumes in Brazil and Argentina, sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa increased by 4 percent and sales in Asia increased 3 percent.

•Our gross margin, excluding transaction-related charges, of $2,083.6 million increased $134.2 million or approximately 7 percent versus last year. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by higher volumes. Gross margin, excluding transaction-related charges, as a percent of revenue remained flat at approximately 45 percent in the current year versus 2018. 

•Selling, general and administrative expenses increased slightly from $790.0 million to $792.9 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses, excluding transaction-related charges, of $715.1 million increased $12.0 million or approximately 2 percent. Transaction-related charges are presented in our Adjusted Earnings Non-GAAP financial measurement below under the section titled “Results of Operations”.

•Research and development expenses of $298.1 million increased $10.4 million or 4 percent. The increase was primarily due to continued investments in our global discovery and product development. We maintain our commitment to invest resources to discover new active ingredients and formulations that support resistance management and sustainable agriculture. 

•Net income (loss) attributable to FMC stockholders of $477.4 million decreased $24.7 million or approximately 5 percent from $502.1 million in the prior year period. Adjusted after-tax earnings from continuing operations attributable to FMC stockholders of $803.7 million increased $91.1 million or approximately 13 percent primarily due to adjusted EBITDA growth. See the disclosure of our Adjusted Earnings Non-GAAP financial measurement under the section titled “Results of Operations”.

Other 2019 Highlights

On March 1, 2019, we completed the previously announced distribution of 123 million shares of common stock of Livent as a pro rata dividend on shares of FMC common stock outstanding at the close of business on the record date of February 25, 2019. Following the distribution, we have zero shares of Livent and zero exposure to lithium markets. We have recast all the data within this filing to present FMC Lithium as a discontinued operation retrospectively for all periods presented.

2020 Outlook

Our 2020 expectation for the overall global crop protection market growth is that it will be up low-single digits in U.S. dollars. We expect all regions to be up low-single digits, primarily driven by higher volumes, in part due to new product launches in 2020, and to a lesser extent higher pricing, slightly offset by negative foreign exchange impacts.

21
We expect 2020 revenue will be in the range of approximately $4.8 billion to $4.95 billion, up approximately 6 percent at the midpoint versus 2019. We also expect adjusted EBITDA(1) of $1.3 billion to $1.34 billion, which represents 8 percent growth at the midpoint versus 2019 results. 2020 adjusted earnings are expected to be in the range of $6.45 to $6.70 per diluted share(1), up 8 percent at the midpoint versus 2019, excluding any impact from potential share repurchases in 2020. For cash flow outlook, refer to the liquidity and capital resources section below.

(1)Although we provide forecasts for adjusted earnings per share and adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP financial measures), we are not able to forecast the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain elements of the composition of the U.S. GAAP amounts are not predictable, making it impractical for us to forecast. Such elements include, but are not limited to, restructuring, acquisition charges, and discontinued operations. As a result, no U.S. GAAP outlook is provided.

22
Results of Operations — 2019, 2018 and 2017 

Overview

The following charts provide a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Earnings, both of which are Non-GAAP financial measures, from the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA is provided to assist the readers of our financial statements with useful information regarding our operating results. Our operating results are presented based on how we assess operating performance and internally report financial information. For management purposes, we report operating performance based on earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, discontinued operations, and corporate special charges. Our Adjusted Earnings measure excludes corporate special charges, net of income taxes, discontinued operations attributable to FMC stockholders, net of income taxes, and certain Non-GAAP tax adjustments. These are excluded by us in the measure we use to evaluate business performance and determine certain performance-based compensation. These items are discussed in detail within the “Other Results of Operations” section that follows. In addition to providing useful information about our operating results to investors, we also believe that excluding the effect of corporate special charges, net of income taxes, and certain Non-GAAP tax adjustments from operating results and discontinued operations allows management and investors to compare more easily the financial performance of our underlying business from period to period. These measures should not be considered as substitutes for net income (loss) or other measures of performance or liquidity reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

23
____________________

(1)Referred to as operating profit. 

(2)Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating profit excluding corporate special charges (income) and depreciation and amortization expense.

(3)See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included within this Form 10-K for details of restructuring and other charges (income).

(4)Our non-operating pension and postretirement charges (income) are defined as those costs (benefits) related to interest, expected return on plan assets, amortized actuarial gains and losses and the impacts of any plan curtailments or settlements. These are excluded from our operating results and are primarily related to changes in pension plan assets and liabilities which are tied to financial market performance and we consider these costs to be outside our operational performance. We continue to include the service cost and amortization of prior service cost in our operating results noted above. These elements reflect the current year operating costs to our businesses for the employment benefits provided to active employees.

(5)Charges relate to the expensing of the inventory fair value step-up resulting from the application of purchase accounting, transaction costs, costs for transitional employees, other acquired employee related costs, integration related legal and professional third-party fees. Amounts represent the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________ 

(1)Represents transaction costs, costs for transitional employees, other acquired employees related costs, and transactional-related costs such as legal and professional third-party fees. These charges are recorded as a component of “Selling, general and administrative expense" on the consolidated statements of income (loss).

(2)These charges are included in “Costs of sales and services” on the consolidated statements of income (loss).

ADJUSTED EARNINGS RECONCILIATION

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(1) Represents restructuring and other charges (income), non-operating pension and postretirement charges (income) and transaction-related charges.

(2) The income tax expense (benefit) on Corporate special charges (income) is determined using the applicable rates in the taxing jurisdictions in which the Corporate special charge or income occurred and includes both current and deferred income tax expense (benefit) based on the nature of the non-GAAP performance measure.

(3) We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the Non-GAAP measure of income, and instead include a Non-GAAP tax provision based upon the annual Non-GAAP effective tax rate. The GAAP tax provision includes certain discrete tax items including, but not limited to: income tax expenses or benefits that are not related to current year ongoing business operations; tax adjustments associated with fluctuations in foreign currency remeasurement of certain foreign operations; certain changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years; certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets; and changes in tax law which includes the impact of the Act enacted on December 22, 2017. Management believes excluding these discrete tax items assists investors and securities analysts in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations thereby providing investors with useful supplemental information about FMC's operational performance. 

24
Results of Operations

In the discussion below, all comparisons are between the periods unless otherwise noted.

Revenue

2019 vs. 2018 

Revenue of $4,609.8 increased $324.5 million, or approximately 8 percent versus the prior year period. The increase was driven by higher volumes, primarily in Latin America, and pricing which contributed approximately 8 percent and 3 percent, respectively, slightly offset by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations of approximately 3 percent.

2018 vs. 2017

Revenue of $4,285.3 million increased $1,754.1 million, or approximately 69 percent versus the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to the revenue from the DuPont Crop Protection Acquisition, which was completed on November 1, 2017, and contributed approximately $1,742 million to the increase.

Refer to the Pro Forma Financial Results with the DuPont Crop Protection Business section below for further discussion.

Pro Forma Financial Results with the DuPont Crop Protection Business

We believe that reviewing our operating results by combining actual and pro forma results is more useful in identifying trends in, or reaching conclusions regarding, the overall operating performance of our business. Our pro forma information includes adjustments as if the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2017. Our pro forma data is also adjusted for the effects of acquisition accounting but does not include adjustments for costs related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that might be achieved by the combined businesses. Pro forma amounts presented are not necessarily indicative of what our results would have been had we operated the DuPont Crop Protection Business since January 1, 2017, nor our future results. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________ 

(1)As reported amounts are the results of operations of our business, including the results of the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition from November 1, 2017 onward.

(2)DuPont Crop Protection Business pro forma amounts include the historical results of the DuPont Crop Protection Business, prior to November 1, 2017. These amounts also include adjustments as if the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2017, including the effects of acquisition accounting. The pro forma amounts do not include adjustments for expenses related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that may have been or may be achieved by the combined segment.

(3)The pro forma combined amounts are not necessarily indicative of what the results would have been had we acquired the DuPont Crop Protection Business on January 1, 2017 or indicative of future results.

(4)For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, pro forma results and actual results are the same.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________ 

25
(1)For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, pro forma results and actual results are the same.

(2)Pro forma combined revenue by region for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes the results of the DuPont Crop Protection Business of $1,325.4 million, assuming the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2017. These amounts include adjustments as if the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2017. The pro forma combined revenue by region amounts are not necessarily indicative of what the results would have been had we acquired the DuPont Crop Protection Business on January 1, 2017 or indicative of future results.

2019 vs. 2018 

North America: Revenue increased approximately 3 percent in the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily driven by volume growth and strength of Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® insect control on specialty crops, the launch of Lucento® fungicide, and strong herbicide sales in Canada. 

Latin America: Revenue increased approximately 19 percent, or approximately 23 percent excluding foreign currency headwinds, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period due primarily to strong demand in Brazil for insecticides on cotton, herbicides on sugarcane, and insecticides in soybean applications. Strong growth in Argentina, due to improved market access and strength of herbicides in soybean applications also contributed to the significant growth in the region. 

EMEA: Revenue increased approximately 4 percent versus the prior year period, or approximately 10 percent excluding foreign currency headwinds, primarily due to the successful launch of Battle® Delta herbicides and Cyazypyr® insect control registrations across the region. Favorable weather, demand for our diamide products, and higher pricing throughout the region also contributed to the increase. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts.

Asia: Revenue increased approximately 3 percent versus the prior year period, or approximately 8 percent excluding foreign currency headwinds, primarily driven by continued strong growth in India and new products across the region. Partially offsetting the increases were adverse weather conditions in Australia and challenged rice markets in China.

In late March 2019, there was an explosion within an industrial park in China which impacted one plant operated by one of our contract manufacturing tollers. The local government has temporarily shut down the entire park to investigate the cause of the explosion. We received material from the clean out of the equipment during the fourth quarter of 2019 and we are working closely with the supplier to determine the exact re-start date of the operation. Our global manufacturing network provides significant supply chain flexibility. Due to the strength of our partnerships and our alternate sourcing options, we believe we can continue to secure supply of the active ingredients normally manufactured at this location as needed.

Pro Forma Combined Results - 2018 vs. 2017 

Pro forma combined revenue of $4,285.3 million increased by approximately 11 percent versus the prior year period. 

North America: Increase in the year ended December 31, 2018 was due to very strong demand for the acquired insecticides, growth in U.S. soy acreage in 2018, and strong demand across niche crops. These were partially offset by unfavorable impacts from the delayed start to the Spring season.

Latin America: Increase in the year ended December 31, 2018 was due to strong growth for the acquired insecticides in soybean and other crops, strong acreage growth in cotton and higher prices in Brazil as well as higher wheat acreage in Argentina. Partially offsetting these increases were unfavorable foreign currency impacts and severe drought in Argentina.

EMEA: Increase in the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to strong growth of the acquired insecticides and herbicides, the move to direct market access in France, as well as sales synergies of legacy FMC products. These were partially offset by a forced divestiture (anti-trust remedy), unfavorable weather conditions that led to a shorter growing season and lower demand in Northern and Central Europe.

Asia: Increase in the year ended December 31, 2018 was due to strong performance in rice and soy insecticides in India and growth in rice herbicides in China which was partially offset by a forced divestiture in India (anti-trust remedy), the rationalization of the legacy portfolio in India and extreme drought conditions in Australia.

Gross margin

2019 vs. 2018 

Gross margin of $2,083.6 million increased $203.8 million, or approximately 11 percent versus the prior year period. Gross margin, excluding transaction-related charges, also increased versus the prior year period by $134.2 million. The increase was primarily due to higher revenues driven by increased volume and pricing, partially offset by higher costs, primarily raw material costs.

26
Gross margin percent of approximately 45 percent slightly increased from approximately 44 percent in the prior year period. The increase from higher pricing was nearly offset by higher costs, primarily raw material costs. Gross margin percent, excluding transaction-related charges, of approximately 45 percent remained relatively flat compared to the prior year period.

2018 vs. 2017

Gross margin of $1,879.8 million increased $928.0 million, or approximately 97 percent versus the prior year period. Gross margin, excluding transaction-related charges, increased versus the prior year period by $977.4 million. Gross margin percent of approximately 44 percent increased from approximately 38 percent in the prior year period. Gross margin percent, excluding transaction-related charges, of approximately 45 percent increased compared to approximately 38 percent in the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by higher margin products as well as a full year of earnings from the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business.

Selling, general, and administrative expenses

2019 vs. 2018 

Selling, general and administrative expenses of $792.9 million slightly increased by $2.9 million versus the prior year period. Selling, general and administrative expenses, excluding transaction-related charges, increased $12.0 million, or approximately 2 percent, versus the prior year period.

2018 vs. 2017

Selling, general and administrative expenses of $790.0 million increased $208.3 million, or approximately 36 percent versus the prior year period. Selling, general and administrative expenses, excluding transaction-related charges, increased $251.6 million, or approximately 56 percent, versus the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by a full year of operations of the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business.

Research and development expenses

2019 vs. 2018 

Research and development expenses of $298.1 million increased $10.4 million, or approximately 4 percent versus the prior year period primarily due to continued investments in our global discovery and product development. 

2018 vs. 2017

Research and development expenses of $287.7 million increased $149.3 million, or approximately 108 percent versus the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to investments in discovery and product development from the acquired state of the art facilities from the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition.

Adjusted EBITDA (Non-GAAP)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________ 

(1)As reported amounts are the results of operations of our business, including the results of the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition from November 1, 2017 onward.

(2)DuPont Crop Protection Business pro forma amounts include the historical results of the DuPont Crop Protection Business, prior to November 1, 2017. These amounts also include adjustments as if the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2017, including the effects of acquisition accounting. The pro forma amounts do not include adjustments for expenses related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that may have been or may be achieved by the combined segment.

(3)The pro forma combined amounts are not necessarily indicative of what the results would have been had we acquired the DuPont Crop Protection Business on January 1, 2017 or indicative of future results.

(4)For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, pro forma results and actual results are the same.

27
2019 vs. 2018 

Adjusted EBITDA of $1,220.5 million increased $111.6 million, or approximately 10 percent versus the prior year period. The increase was due to the strong demand which led to higher volumes and higher pricing as discussed above which contributed approximately 18 percent and 12 percent to the increase, respectively. The price increases were primarily seen in Latin America. These factors more than offset the higher costs, primarily driven by higher raw material costs, and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations which impacted the change in Adjusted EBITDA by approximately 15 percent and 5 percent, respectively.

Pro Forma Combined Results - 2018 vs. 2017 

2018 pro forma combined Adjusted EBITDA of $1,108.9 million increased approximately 15 percent compared to 2017. The increase was primarily driven by revenue growth discussed above as our sales organization leveraged valuable cross-selling opportunities due to minimal customer overlap with DuPont. Additionally, we reduced expected operating costs for the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business through accelerated functional integration, leveraging our back office infrastructure and reducing manufacturing costs at the acquired plants. These were partially offset by higher raw material costs which have had a negative impact on results year over year. This impacted the chemical industry broadly as the Chinese government has been shutting down industrial parks as part of their environmental program. We have been able to mitigate and manage the impact on our ability to supply our customer due to our diversified supply chain network.

Other Results of Operations

Depreciation and amortization

2019 vs. 2018 

Depreciation and amortization of $150.1 million remained relatively flat as compared to 2018 of $150.2 million. 

2018 vs. 2017 

Depreciation and amortization of $150.2 million increased $52.4 million as compared to 2017 of $97.8 million. The increase was primarily due to the increase in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired as a result of the DuPont Crop Protection Business. 

Interest expense, net

2019 vs. 2018 

Interest expense, net of $158.5 million increased by $25.4 million, or approximately 19 percent, compared to $133.1 million in 2018. The increase was driven by the issuance of the Senior Notes discussed further below, which increased interest expense by approximately $7 million, and higher average foreign debt balances throughout the year, which increased interest expense by approximately $17 million. 

2018 vs. 2017

Interest expense, net of $133.1 million increased by approximately 68 percent compared to $79.1 million in 2017. The increase was driven by the addition of the 2017 Term Loan Facility, used to fund the 2017 acquisition, which increased interest expense by approximately $30 million, and higher interest rates which increased interest expense by approximately $6 million. The remaining increase of approximately $17 million was due to zero interest allocated to discontinued operations in 2018 as compared to 2017, due to the divestment of the FMC Health and Nutrition business to DuPont in 2017. Interest was previously allocated in accordance with relevant discontinued operations accounting guidance.

Corporate special charges (income)

Restructuring and other charges (income)

Our restructuring and other charges (income) are comprised of restructuring, assets disposals and other charges (income) as described below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________ 

(1) See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for more information.

28
2019 

Restructuring charges in 2019 primarily consisted of $34.1 million of charges related to our decision to exit sales of all carbofuran formulations globally and $26.4 million of charges associated with the integration of the DuPont Crop Protection Business. These charges included severance, accelerated depreciation on certain fixed assets, and other costs (benefits). There were other miscellaneous restructuring charges $1.7 million. We expect integration-related activity to end in 2020. 

Other charges (income), net in 2019 primarily consists of charges of environmental sites. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we recorded a charge of $72.8 million a result of an unfavorable court ruling we received in relation to the Pocatello Tribal Litigation at one of our environmental sites. See Note 12 for further information regarding this matter.

2018 

Restructuring charges in 2018 were primarily associated with restructuring charges associated with the integration of the DuPont Crop Protection Business. These charges primarily consisted of approximately $59 million of charges related to the change in our market access model in India and approximately $28 million of charges due to our decision to exit the Ewing R&D center. Refer to Note 9 for more information. Other restructuring charges as we continue to integrate the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business totaled approximately $22 million.

Other charges (income), net in 2018 primarily consists of income from the gain on sales of $87.2 million from the divestment of a portion of FMC's European herbicide portfolio to Nufarm Limited and certain products of our India portfolio to Crystal Crop Protection Limited. These divestitures satisfied FMC's commitment to the European Commission and the Competition Commission of India, respectively, for regulatory requirements in order to complete the DuPont Crop Protection Acquisition. Additionally, there were environmental related charges of $21.7 million for remediation activities and $2.6 million of other charges.

2017 

Restructuring charges in 2017 includes impairment charges of intangible assets of $2.2 million and asset write-downs of approximately $5.5 million. Amounts also include miscellaneous restructuring charges of $0.8 million.

Other charges (income), net in 2017 consisted of a $42.1 million impairment on certain indefinite-lived intangible assets from the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition as a result of a triggering event due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("the Act"). Other charges (income) also includes $16.2 million for environmental sites. Additionally, we incurred exit costs of $4.8 million resulting from the termination and de-consolidation of our interest in a variable interest entity that was previously consolidated. We had other miscellaneous charges, net of approximately $1.6 million.

Non-operating pension and postretirement (charges) income

2019 vs. 2018

The charge for 2019 was $8.1 million compared to income of $0.5 million in 2018. The change was due to lower expected return on plan assets of approximately $10 million resulting from the full shift to a fixed income investment portfolio for the full year of 2019 versus the shift to a primarily fixed income investment portfolio for only a portion of the year in 2018.

2018 vs. 2017

The income for 2018 was $0.5 million compared to $16.3 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily due to lower expected return on plan assets due to the partial shift to a primarily fixed income investment portfolio of approximately $16 million versus 2017. See Note 15 for more information.

Transaction-related charges

A detailed description of the transaction related charges is included in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included within this Form 10-K.

Provision for income taxes 

A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our foreign subsidiaries (e.g., Singapore, Hong Kong, and Switzerland), which tax earnings at lower statutory rates than the United States federal statutory rate. Our future effective tax rates may be materially impacted by numerous items including: a future change in the composition of earnings from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions, as earnings in foreign jurisdictions are typically taxed at more favorable statutory rates than the United States federal statutory rate; accounting for uncertain tax positions; business combinations; expiration of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits; changes in valuation allowance; changes in tax law; and the potential decision to repatriate certain future foreign earnings on which United States or foreign withholding taxes have not been previously accrued.

29
Provision for income taxes for 2019 was expense of $111.5 million resulting in an effective tax rate of 17.0 percent. Provision for income taxes for 2018 was expense of $70.8 million resulting in an effective tax rate of 11.6 percent. Provision for income taxes for 2017 was expense of $228.9 million resulting in an effective tax rate of 238.9 percent primarily attributable to the $303.6 million of provisional tax expense associated with the Act. Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K includes more details on the drivers of the GAAP effective rate and year-over-year changes. We believe showing the reconciliation below of our GAAP to Non-GAAP effective tax rate provides investors with useful supplemental information about our tax rate on the core underlying business.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1)Tax adjustments in 2019 are materially attributable to the effects of tax law changes and the realizability of deferred tax assets in certain jurisdictions. Tax adjustments in 2018 are materially attributable to the effects of the Act and primarily relate to the one-time transition tax, the decrease in the U.S. federal tax rate, and the realizability of certain U.S. state deferred tax assets. Tax adjustments in 2017 were primarily associated with the provisional income tax expense recorded as a result of the enactment of the Act in December 2017. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included within this Form 10-K for additional discussion.

The primary drivers for the fluctuations in the effective tax rate for each period are provided in the table above. Excluding the items in the table above, the changes in the effective tax rate were primarily due to the impact of geographic mix of earnings among our global subsidiaries. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details related to the provisions for income taxes on continuing operations, as well as items that significantly impact our effective tax rate.

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes

Our discontinued operations, in periods up to its disposition, represent our discontinued FMC Lithium and FMC Health and Nutrition business results as well as adjustments to retained liabilities from other previously discontinued operations. The primary liabilities retained include environmental liabilities, other postretirement benefit liabilities, self-insurance, long-term obligations related to legal proceedings and historical restructuring activities. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details on our discontinued operations.

2019 vs. 2018 

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes represented a loss of $63.3 million in 2019 compared to a loss of $26.1 million in 2018. The current year included the net loss from our discontinued FMC Lithium segment, primarily due to separation-related costs, up to its separation date on March 1, 2019, compared to income for the full year in 2018. Offsetting the loss was the gain on sale from the sale of the first of two parcels of land of our discontinued site in Newark, California in the current year. During 2018, we recorded a charge of approximately $106 million as a result of active negotiations for a settlement agreement primarily to address discontinued operations at our Middleport, New York plant which was the subject of an Administrative Order on Consent entered into with the EPA and NYSDEC in 1991. The charge consisted of incremental estimated costs of remediation for certain offsite operable units associated with historic site operations as we engaged in settlement discussions with NYSDEC to resolve the path forward regarding remediation. Refer to Note 12 for further details.

2018 vs. 2017 

Discontinued operations, net of income taxes represented a loss of $26.1 million in 2018 compared to income of $671.5 million in 2017. The decrease was primarily driven by the divestiture of FMC Health and Nutrition to DuPont in the fourth quarter of 2017 which resulted in an after-tax gain of approximately $727 million, which did not recur in 2018. Discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in 2017 also includes the impairment charge of approximately $148 million, net of tax, to reflect the write down of our Omega-3 business to its sales price. During 2018, we recorded a charge of approximately $106 million related to our discontinued environmental site at our Middleport, New York. Refer to Note 12 for further details.

30
Net income (loss) attributable to FMC stockholders

2019 vs. 2018 

Net income attributable to FMC stockholders decreased to $477.4 million from $502.1 million. The decrease was primarily due to higher costs and expenses, particularly restructuring and other charges associated with environmental remediation at our decommissioned plant near Pocatello, higher tax provisions, and higher net interest expense. This was partially offset by higher adjusted EBITDA from higher volumes and pricing. 

2018 vs. 2017 

Net income attributable to FMC stockholders decreased to $502.1 million from $535.8 million. The decrease was primarily due to the gain on sale recorded in discontinued operations, net of income taxes in 2017 as well as charges related to the Middleport environmental settlement as discussed above. These were partially offset by higher income from continuing operations driven by a full year of results from the DuPont Crop Protection Business, which was completed on November 1, 2017.

31
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019 and 2018, were $339.1 million and $134.4 million, respectively. Of the cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2019, $181.5 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. The cash held by foreign subsidiaries for permanent reinvestment is generally used to finance the subsidiaries’ operating activities and future foreign investments. We have not provided income taxes for other outside basis differences inherent in our investments in subsidiaries because the investments and related unremitted earnings are essentially permanent in duration or we have concluded that no additional tax liability will arise upon disposal or remittance. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included within this Form 10-K for more information.

At December 31, 2019, we had total debt of $3,258.8 million as compared to $2,692.7 million at December 31, 2018. Total debt included $3,031.1 million and $2,145.0 million of long-term debt (excluding current portions of $82.8 million and $386.0 million) at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. See Note 14 in the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for further details. We remain committed to solid investment grade credit metrics, and expect full-year average leverage to be in line with this commitment in 2020.

The increase in long-term debt was primarily due to the issuance of Senior Notes discussed further below. Partially offsetting the increase were partial paydowns on the 2017 Term Loan Facility, which is scheduled to mature on November 1, 2022. The borrowings under the 2017 Term Loan Facility will bear interest at a floating rate, which will be a base rate or a Eurocurrency rate equal to the London interbank offered rate for the relevant interest period, plus in each case an applicable margin, as determined in accordance with the provisions of the 2017 Term Loan Facility. 

Our short-term debt consists of foreign borrowings and our commercial paper program. Foreign borrowings increased from $106.5 million at December 31, 2018 to $144.9 million at December 31, 2019 while outstanding commercial paper decreased entirely from $55.2 million at December 31, 2018. We provide parent-company guarantees to lending institutions providing credit to our foreign subsidiaries.

Our commercial paper program allows us to borrow at rates generally more favorable than those available under our credit facility. At December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program.

Senior Notes

On September 20, 2019, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.200% Senior Notes due 2026, $500 million aggregate principal amount 3.450% Senior Notes due 2029, and $500 million aggregate principal amount 4.500% Senior Notes due 2049. A portion of the net proceeds from the offering were used for paydowns of outstanding commercial paper, 2017 Term Loan Facility balances, and general corporate purposes. We used the remaining net proceeds of approximately $300 million to redeem all of our Senior notes that matured in the fourth quarter of 2019.

Fees incurred to secure the senior notes have been deferred and will be amortized over the terms of the arrangement.

See Note 19 for details on the interest rate swap settlement which will also be amortized over the terms of the arrangement.

Revolving Credit Facility

On May 17, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the "Revolving Credit Agreement"). The unsecured Revolving Credit Agreement provides for a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, $400 million of which is available for the issuance of letters of credit for the account of the Revolving Borrowers and $50 million of which is available for swing loans to certain of the Revolving Borrowers, with an option, subject to certain conditions and limitations, to increase the aggregate amount of the revolving credit commitments to $2.25 billion (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). The current termination date of the Revolving Credit Facility is May 17, 2024.

Revolving loans under the Revolving Credit Agreement will bear interest at a floating rate, which will be a base rate or a Eurocurrency rate equal to the London interbank offered rate for the relevant interest period, plus, in each case, an applicable margin, as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Revolving Credit Agreement. The base rate will be the highest of: the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank, N.A. in New York, New York from time to time as its “base rate”; the federal funds effective rate plus 1/2 of 1%; and the Eurocurrency rate for a one-month period plus 1%. The Company is required to pay a facility fee on the average daily amount (whether used or unused) of each Revolving Credit Lender’s revolving credit commitment from the effective date for such Revolving Credit Lender until the termination date of such Revolving Credit Lender at a rate per annum equal to an applicable percentage in effect from time to time for the facility fee, as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Revolving Credit Agreement. The initial facility fee is 0.125% per annum. The applicable margin and the facility fee are subject to adjustment as provided in the Revolving Credit Agreement.

The Revolving Credit Agreement contains customary financial and other covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio.

32
Fees incurred to secure the Revolving Credit Facility have been deferred and will be amortized over the term of the arrangement.

Statement of Cash Flows

Cash provided (required) by operating activities was $555.6 million, $362.7 million and $232.0 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

The table below presents the components of net cash provided (required) by operating activities. For comparability, the prior period amounts for "Change in all other operating assets and liabilities" have been recast to reflect the current period presentation.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________ 

(1)The change in trade receivables in all periods was primarily driven by timing of collections, largely due to seasonality. Additionally, the change in 2018 was related to receivable build from the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business as we did not acquire any receivables as part of the transaction. Collection timing is more pronounced in certain countries such as Brazil where there may be terms significantly longer than the rest of our business. Additionally, timing of collection is impacted as amounts for all periods include carry-over balances remaining to be collected in Latin America, where collection periods are measured in months rather than weeks. During 2019, we collected approximately $1,070 million of receivables in Brazil. 

(2)Advance payments are typically received in the fourth quarter of each year, primarily in our North America operations as revenue associated with advance payments is recognized, generally in the first half of each year following the seasonality of that business, as shipments are made and title, ownership and risk of loss pass to the customer.

(3)These rebates are primarily associated with North America and to a lesser extent Brazil and in North America are generally settled in the fourth quarter of each year given the end of that region's crop cycle. The changes year over year are primarily associated with the mix in sales eligible for rebates and incentives and timing of rebate payments. Additionally, the change in 2018 was related to the build in rebates as we did not acquire the rebates of the DuPont Crop Protection Business as part of the transaction.

(4)Changes in inventory are a result of inventory levels being adjusted to take into consideration the change in market conditions. The increase in the change in 2018 was also driven by recovering inventory levels due to a faster return to full production from our China toll manufacturing partners.

(5)The change in cash flows related to accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments made to suppliers and vendors. Timing in 2019 was partially impacted during portions of 2019 from global supply chain issues, primarily in China, which required us to obtain raw materials on payment terms shorter than normal. The change in accounts payable in both 2018 and 2017 was primarily impacted by the payable build from the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business as we did not acquire any payables as part of the transactions. 

33
(6)Changes in all periods presented primarily represent timing of payments associated with all other operating assets and liabilities. Additionally, the 2019 and 2018 period includes the effects of the unfavorable contracts amortization of approximately $116 million and $103 million, respectively.

(7)See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for further details.

(8)Included in our results for each of the years presented are environmental charges for environmental remediation of $108.7 million, $21.7 million and $16.2 million, respectively. The amounts in 2019 will be spent in future years. The amounts represent environmental remediation spending which were recorded against pre-existing reserves, net of recoveries. Environmental obligations for continuing operations primarily represent obligations at shut down or abandoned facilities within businesses that do not meet the criteria for presentation as discontinued operations.

(9)Amounts include voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit plan of $7.0 million, $30.0 million and $44.0 million, respectively. These amounts are in excess of the minimum requirements. Our contributions in excess of minimums are done with the objective of avoiding variable rate Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation premiums as well as potentially reducing future funding volatility.

(10)The increase in interest payments in 2019 was primarily due to higher foreign borrowings and the issuance of the Senior Notes during the year. The increase in 2018 was primarily due to higher foreign debt balances, the addition of the 2017 Term Loan Facility, and increases in interest rates.

(11)Tax payments in 2019 primarily represent the payments of tax attributable to the Nufarm Limited sale, transition tax, and tax payments related to the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business. Tax payments in 2018 primarily represent the payments of tax attributable to the FMC Health and Nutrition segment disposition, transition tax and full year tax payments related to the acquired DuPont Crop Protection Business.

(12)Represents payments for legal and professional fees associated with the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition in addition to costs related to integrating the DuPont Crop Protection Business. We expect these payments to cease by the end of 2020. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for more information.

Cash provided (required) by operating activities of discontinued operations was $(67.1) million, $5.7 million and $103.5 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Cash required by operating activities of discontinued operations is directly related to environmental, other postretirement benefit liabilities, self-insurance, long-term obligations related to legal proceedings and historical restructuring activities.

Amounts in all periods also include the operating activities of our discontinued FMC Lithium segment, which was separated on March 1, 2019. Amounts in 2017 include the operating activities of our discontinued FMC Health and Nutrition segment and were partially offset by divestiture costs associated with its sale, which was completed on November 1, 2017.

Cash provided (required) by investing activities of continuing operations was $(195.9) million, $(37.5) million and $(1,288.5) million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Cash required in 2019 is primarily due to capital expenditures and spending related to our contract manufacturing arrangements, as well as continued spending associated with the implementation of a new SAP system.

Cash required in 2018 is primarily due to higher capital expenditure spending as well as incremental capitalizable corporate level spending associated with the implementation of a new SAP system, partially offset by the sale of product portfolios of approximately $88 million that were required to complete the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition.

The cash required by investing activities in 2017 was primarily due to the acquisition of the DuPont Crop Protection Business.

Cash provided (required) by investing activities of discontinued operations was $9.2 million, $(93.4) million and $(45.3) million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Cash provided by investing activities of discontinued operations in 2019 represents the proceeds from the sale of the first of two parcels of land of our discontinued site in Newark, California partially offset by capital expenditures of our discontinued FMC Lithium segment. Cash required by investing activities of discontinued operations in 2018 represents the working capital payment associated with the divestiture of FMC Health and Nutrition as well as the capital expenditures of our discontinued FMC Lithium segment.

Cash required by investing activities of discontinued operations in 2017 represents the capital expenditures of our discontinued FMC Lithium and FMC Health and Nutrition segments, partially offset by the cash proceeds from the sale of the Omega-3 business for $38.0 million.

Cash provided (required) by financing activities was $(87.0) million, $(397.3) million and $1,213.1 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

The change in cash required by financing activities in 2019 is primarily due to the proceeds from the Senior Notes offset by cash outflows including higher repurchases of common stock, repayment of long-term debt, and higher dividend payments in the current period as compared to the prior period. The prior period included the net proceeds from the IPO of FMC Lithium which were more than offset by repayments of long-term debt, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock.

34
The change in cash required by financing activities in 2018 is due to higher repayments of long-term debt of approximately $200 million as compared to 2017 and $200 million in repurchases of common stock as part of the publicly announced repurchase program. Additionally, there were significant borrowings of long-term debt in 2017 to fund the DuPont transaction. The cash required in 2018 was partially offset by the proceeds received from the IPO of FMC Lithium of $363.6 million. 

Cash provided (required) by financing activities was $(37.2) million, $34.0 million and zero in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Cash required by financing activities of discontinued operations in 2019 represents debt repayments on FMC Lithium's external debt as well as cash payments associated with its separation. Cash provided by financing activities of discontinued operations in 2018 represents the proceeds from borrowing of long-term debt of our discontinued FMC Lithium segment.

Free Cash Flow

We define free cash flow, a Non-GAAP financial measure, as all cash inflows and outflows excluding those related to financing activities (such as debt repayments, dividends, and share repurchases) and acquisition related investing activities. Free cash flow is calculated as all cash from operating activities reduced by spending for capital additions and other investing activities as well as legacy and transformation spending. Therefore, our calculation of free cash flow will almost always result in a lower amount than cash from operating activities from continuing operations, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. However, the free cash flow measure is consistent with management's assessment of operating cash flow performance and we believe it provides a useful basis for investors and securities analysts about the cash generated by routine business operations, including capital expenditures, in addition to assessing our ability to repay debt, fund acquisitions and return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.

Our use of free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results under U.S. GAAP. First, free cash flow is not a substitute for cash provided (required) by operating activities of continuing operations, as it is not a measure of cash available for discretionary expenditures since we have non-discretionary obligations, primarily debt service, that are not deducted from the measure. Second, other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled Non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow is further limited as it does not reflect our future contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. Because of these and other limitations, free cash flow should be considered along with cash provided (required) by operating activities of continuing operations and other comparable financial measures prepared and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

The table below presents a reconciliation of free cash flow from the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure.

FREE CASH FLOW RECONCILIATION

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________

35
(1) Represents payments for legal and professional fees associated with the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition in addition to costs related to integrating the DuPont Crop Protection Business. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for more information.

(2) Adjusted cash from operations is defined as cash provided (required) by operating activities of continuing operations excluding the effects of transaction-related cash flows, which are included within Legacy and transformation.

(3) Components of cash provided (required) by investing activities of continuing operations. Refer to the below discussion for further details.

(4) Cash spending associated with contract manufacturers was $51.7 million, $13.1 million and $11.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

(5) Refer to the above discussion for further details.

(6) Includes our legacy liabilities such as environmental remediation and other legal matters that are reported in discontinued operations as well as business integration costs associated with the DuPont Crop Protection Business Acquisition and the implementation of our new SAP system.

2020 Cash Flow Outlook

Our cash needs for 2020 include operating cash requirements (which are impacted by contributions to our pension plan, as well as environmental, asset retirement obligation, and restructuring spending), capital expenditures, and legacy and transformation spending, as well as mandatory payments of debt, dividend payments, and share repurchases. We plan to meet our liquidity needs through available cash, cash generated from operations, commercial paper issuances and borrowings under our committed revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2019 our remaining borrowing capacity under our credit facility was $1,283.0 million. 

We expect 2020 free cash flow (Non-GAAP) to increase to a range of approximately $425 million to $525 million, driven by higher cash from operating activities, partially offset by higher capital expenditures and higher legacy and transformation costs. We continue to believe we can drive free cash conversion substantially higher over the next two to three years as we finalize our SAP system implementation, ending the three-year period of high cash spending on transformation activity and as we drive further improvement in working capital performance and continue to increase revenue and Adjusted EBITDA.

Although we provide a forecast for free cash flow, a Non-GAAP financial measure, we are not able to forecast the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which is cash provided (required) by operating activities of continuing operations. Certain elements of the composition of the U.S. GAAP amount are not predictable, making it impractical for us to forecast. Such elements include, but are not limited to, restructuring, acquisition charges, and discontinued operations. As a result, no U.S. GAAP outlook is provided.

Cash from operating activities of continuing operations

We expect higher cash from operating activities, excluding the effects of transaction-related cash flows, primarily driven by higher forecasted Adjusted EBITDA as well as continued improvement in working capital, to be in the range of approximately $735 million to $935 million. Transaction-related cash flows are included within Legacy and transformation, which is consistent with how we evaluate our business operations from a cash flow standpoint. See below for further discussion. Cash from operating activities includes cash requirements related to our pension plans, environmental sites, restructuring and asset retirement obligations, taxes and interest on borrowings. 

Pension

We do not expect to make any voluntary cash contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan in 2020. The plan is fully funded and our portfolio is comprised of 100 percent fixed income securities and cash. Our investment strategy is a liability hedging approach with an objective of maintaining the funded status of the plan such that the funded status volatility is minimized and the likelihood that we will be required to make significant contributions to the plan is limited.

Environmental

Projected 2020 spending includes approximately $45 million to $55 million of net environmental remediation spending for our sites accounted for within continuing operations. Environmental obligations for continuing operations primarily represent obligations at shut down or abandoned facilities within businesses that do not meet the criteria for presentation as discontinued operations. This spending includes approximately $36 million related to our environmental remediation site near Pocatello, Idaho, primarily as a result of a litigation judgment against us in the Pocatello Tribal litigation described in Note 12. In addition to the expected 2020 payments for Pocatello, the judgment resulted in the requirement for future payments of $1.5 million annually thereafter. On February 4, 2020, the Ninth Circuit granted our motion to stay the mandate and as a result, payment of the judgement, if necessary, will not take place until final disposition by the Supreme Court. 

Total projected 2020 environmental spending, inclusive of both sites accounted for within continuing operations and discontinued sites (discussed within Legacy and transformation below), is expected to be in the range of $98 million to $108 million.

36
Restructuring and asset retirement obligations

We expect to make payments of approximately $30 million to $34 million in 2020, of which approximately $12 million is related to exit and disposal costs as a result of our decision to exit sales of all carbofuran formulations (including Furadan® insecticide/nematicide, as well as Curaterr® insecticide/nematicide and any other brands used with carbofuran products). See Note 9 for more information.

Capital additions and other investing activities

Projected 2020 capital expenditures and expenditures related to contract manufacturers are expected to be in the range of approximately $135 million to $185 million. The spending is primarily driven by diamide capacity expansion and new active ingredient capacity. Expenditures related to contract manufacturers are included within “other investing activities”. 

Legacy and transformation

Projected 2020 legacy and transformation spending are expected to be in the range of approximately $175 million to $225 million. This is primarily driven by continued spending associated with the three-year implementation of a new SAP system and related costs we expect to continue to incur associated with the remaining integration of the DuPont Crop Protection Business due to its significance and complexity. Total spending related to these initiatives is expected to be approximately $125 million. Costs for these initiatives are expected to be immaterial beyond 2020. 

Projected 2020 spending includes approximately $48 million to $58 million of net environmental remediation spending for our discontinued sites. These projections include spending as a result of a settlement reached in the second quarter of 2019 at our Middleport, New York site. The settlement will result in spending of approximately $20 million to $30 million per year for 2020 and 2021, due to front loading of reimbursement in installments of past costs, and a $10 million maximum per year, on average, until the remediation is complete. See Note 12 for further information.

Total projected 2020 environmental spending, inclusive of both sites accounted for within continuing operations (discussed within Cash from operating activities of continuing operations above) and discontinued sites, is expected to be in the range of $98 million to $108 million.

Share repurchases

During the year ended December 31, 2019, 4.7 million shares were repurchased under the publicly announced repurchase program. At December 31, 2019, approximately $600 million remained unused under our Board-authorized repurchase program. We intend to purchase between $400 million to $500 million of our common shares in 2020. This repurchase program does not include a specific timetable or price targets and may be suspended or terminated at any time. Shares may be purchased through open market or privately negotiated transactions at the discretion of management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. We also reacquire shares from time to time from employees in connections with vesting, exercise and forfeiture of awards under our equity compensation plans.

Dividends

On January 16, 2020, we paid dividends aggregating $57.0 million to our shareholders of record as of December 31, 2019. This amount is included in “Accrued and other liabilities” on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we paid $210.3 million, $89.2 million and $88.8 million in dividends, respectively. 

Commitments

We provide guarantees to financial institutions on behalf of certain customers, principally customers in Brazil, for their seasonal borrowing. The total of these guarantees was $77.8 million at December 31, 2019. These guarantees arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with customers and nonconsolidated affiliates. Non-performance by the guaranteed party triggers the obligation requiring us to make payments to the beneficiary of the guarantee. Based on our experience these types of guarantees have not had a material effect on our consolidated financial position or on our liquidity. Our expectation is that future payment or performance related to the non-performance of others is considered unlikely.

In connection with certain of our property and asset sales and divestitures, we have agreed to indemnify the buyer for certain liabilities, including environmental contamination and taxes that occurred prior to the date of sale. Our indemnification obligations with respect to these liabilities may be indefinite as to duration and may or may not be subject to a deductible, minimum claim amount or cap. In cases where it is not possible for us to predict the likelihood that a claim will be made or to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential loss or range of loss, no specific liability has been recorded. If triggered, we may be able to recover certain of the indemnity payments from third parties. In cases where it is possible, we have recorded a specific liability within our Reserve for Discontinued Operations. Refer to Note 11 for further details.

37
Our total significant committed contracts that we believe will affect cash over the next four years and beyond are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(1) Excluding discounts.

(2) Contractual interest is the interest we are contracted to pay on our long-term debt obligations. We had $800.0 million of long-term debt subject to variable interest rates at December 31, 2019. The rate assumed for the variable interest component of the contractual interest obligation was the rate in effect at December 31, 2019. Variable rates are determined by the market and will fluctuate over time.

(3) Obligations associated with operating leases, before sub-lease rental income.

(4) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, price provisions and timing of the transaction. We have entered into a number of purchase obligations for the sourcing of materials and energy where take-or-pay arrangements apply. Since the majority of the minimum obligations under these contracts are take-or-pay commitments over the life of the contract and not a year by year take-or-pay, the obligations in the table related to these types of contacts are presented in the earliest period in which the minimum obligation could be payable under these types of contracts.

(5) As of December 31, 2019, the liability for uncertain tax positions was $71.4 million. This liability is excluded from the table above. Additionally, accrued pension and other postretirement benefits and our environmental liabilities as recorded on our consolidated balance sheets are excluded from the table above. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of potential future cash flows associated with these liabilities, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and periods in which these liabilities might be paid. Also excluded from the table above is the liability attributable to the transition tax on deemed repatriated foreign earnings incurred as a result of the Act of $139.3 million.

Contingencies

See Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.

Climate Change

As a global corporate citizen, we are concerned about the consequences of climate change and will take prudent and cost effective actions that reduce Green House Gas (GHG) emissions to the atmosphere.

FMC is committed to continuing to do its part to address climate change and its impacts. In 2019 we set new environmental goals to reflect the changes to our business with the acquisition of the DuPont Crop Protection Business and the separation of the FMC Lithium business. Our new 2030 intensity reduction targets for energy and greenhouse gas emissions are both 25 percent from our 2018 baseline year. FMC has been reporting its GHG emissions and mitigation strategy to CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2016. FMC detailed the business risks and opportunities we have due to climate change and its impacts in our CDP climate change reports. In recognition of our commitment to address climate change, FMC enhanced its CDP Climate Change score from a “C” in 2018 to a “B” in 2019.

Even as we take action to control the release of GHGs, additional warming is anticipated. Long-term, higher average global temperatures could result in induced changes in natural resources, growing seasons, precipitation patterns, weather patterns, species distributions, water availability, sea levels, and biodiversity. These impacts could cause changes in supplies of raw materials used to maintain FMC’s production capacity and could lead to possible increased sourcing costs. Depending on how pervasive the climate impacts are in the different geographic locations experiencing changes in natural resources, FMC’s customers could be impacted. Demand for FMC’s products could increase if our products meet our customers’ needs to adapt to climate change impacts or decrease if our products do not meet their needs. Within our own operations, we continually assess our manufacturing sites worldwide for risks and opportunities to increase our preparedness for climate change. We are continuing to evaluate sea level rise and storm surge at our plants to understand timing of potential impacts and proactive responses that may need to be taken. To lessen FMC’s overall environmental footprint, we have taken actions to increase the energy efficiency in our manufacturing sites. We have also committed to new 2030 goals to reduce our water use intensity in 

38
high-risk areas by 20 percent and to maintain our 2018 waste disposed intensity which otherwise would increase by 55 percent due to expected growth and shifts in production mix.

In our product portfolio, we see market opportunities for our products to address climate change and its impacts. For example, FMC's agricultural products can help customers increase yield, energy and water efficiency, and decrease greenhouse gas emissions. Our products can also help growers adapt to more unpredictable growing conditions and the effects these types of threats have on crops. FMC has committed to invest 100% of our innovation budget to developing sustainable products and solutions for future use. 

We are improving existing products and developing new platforms and technologies that help mitigate impacts of climate change. FMC is developing products with a lighter environmental footprint in its biologicals products. These opportunities could lead to new products and services for our existing and potential customers. Beyond our products and operations, FMC recognizes that energy consumption throughout our supply chain can impact climate change and product costs. Therefore, we will actively work with our entire value chain - suppliers, contractors, and customers - to improve their energy efficiencies and to reduce their GHG emissions. 

We continue to follow legislative and regulatory developments regarding climate change because the regulation of greenhouse gases, depending on their nature and scope, could subject some of our manufacturing operations to additional costs or limits on operations. In December 2015, 195 countries at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris reached an agreement to reduce GHGs. It remains to be seen how and when each of these countries will implement this agreement. The United States was a signatory to the Paris Agreement. Then on November 4, 2019, the United States announced that it will begin formally withdrawing the US from the Paris climate accord, the first step in a year-long process that will lead to a complete withdrawal just after the 2020 presidential election.

Notwithstanding the United States’ withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, FMC will actively manage climate risks and incorporate them in our decision making as indicated in our responses to the CDP Climate Change Module. The United States Climate Alliance, a coalition of 24 states (governing 55 percent of the population) and unincorporated self-governing territories in the United States have expressed their commitment to upholding the objectives of the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change within their borders. Several of our manufacturing and R&D sites fall within this alliance territory. FMC remains deeply committed to reducing our GHG emissions and energy consumption at all our facilities around the world. 

Some of our foreign operations are subject to national or local energy management or climate change regulation, such as our plant in Denmark that is subject to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. At present, that plant’s emissions are below its designated cap.

In December 2019, the European Commission approved the European Green Deal, with the goal of making the EU carbon neutral by 2050. The Deal includes investment plans and a roadmap to fight against climate change. FMC is closely following updates and the discussion surrounding the Green Deal. The costs of complying with possible future requirements are difficult to estimate at this time.

Future GHG regulatory requirements may result in increased costs of energy, additional capital costs for emissions control or new equipment, and/or costs associated with cap and trade or carbon taxes. We are currently monitoring regulatory developments. The costs of complying with possible future climate change requirements are difficult to estimate at this time.

Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Pronouncements and Regulatory Items

See Note 2 "Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements and Regulatory Items" to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

See Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K and Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings for further information regarding any off-balance sheet arrangements.

Fair Value Measurements

See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for additional discussion surrounding our fair value measurements.

39
Critical Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We have described our accounting policies in Note 1 "Principal Accounting Policies and Related Financial Information" to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. We have reviewed these accounting policies, identifying those that we believe to be critical to the preparation and understanding of our consolidated financial statements. We have reviewed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Critical accounting policies are central to our presentation of results of operations and financial condition in accordance with U.S. GAAP and require management to make estimates and judgments on certain matters. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, current conditions and other reasonable factors.

Revenue recognition and trade receivables

We recognize revenue when (or as) we satisfy our performance obligation which is when the customer obtains control of the good or service. Rebates due to customers are accrued as a reduction of revenue in the same period that the related sales are recorded based on the contract terms. Refer to Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for more information.

We record amounts billed for shipping and handling fees as revenue. Costs incurred for shipping and handling are recorded as costs of sales and services. Amounts billed for sales and use taxes, value-added taxes, and certain excise and other specific transactional taxes imposed on revenue-producing transactions are presented on a net basis and excluded from sales in the consolidated income statements. We record a liability until remitted to the respective taxing authority.

We periodically enter into prepayment arrangements with customers and receive advance payments for product to be delivered in future periods. These advance payments are recorded as deferred revenue and classified as “Advance payments from customers” on the consolidated balance sheet. Revenue associated with advance payments is recognized as shipments are made and transfer of control to the customer takes place.

Trade receivables consist of amounts owed to us from customer sales and are recorded when revenue is recognized. The allowance for trade receivables represents our best estimate of the probable losses associated with potential customer defaults. In developing our allowance for trade receivables, we use a two stage process which includes calculating a general formula to develop an allowance to appropriately address the uncertainty surrounding collection risk of our entire portfolio and specific allowances for customers where the risk of collection has been reasonably identified either due to liquidity constraints or disputes over contractual terms and conditions.

Our method of calculating the general formula consists of estimating the recoverability of trade receivables based on historical experience, current collection trends, and external business factors such as economic factors, including regional bankruptcy rates, and political factors. Our analysis of trade receivable collection risk is performed quarterly, and the allowance is adjusted accordingly.

We also hold long-term receivables that represent long-term customer receivable balances related to past-due accounts which are not expected to be collected within the current year. Our policy for the review of the allowance for these receivables is consistent with the discussion in the preceding paragraph above on trade receivables. Therefore on an ongoing basis, we continue to evaluate the credit quality of our long-term receivables utilizing aging of receivables, collection experience and write-offs, as well as existing economic conditions, to determine if an additional allowance is necessary.

Environmental obligations and related recoveries

We provide for environmental-related obligations when they are probable and amounts can be reasonably estimated. Where the available information is sufficient to estimate the amount of liability, that estimate has been used. Where the information is only sufficient to establish a range of probable liability and no point within the range is more likely than any other, the lower end of the range has been used.

Estimated obligations to remediate sites that involve oversight by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), or similar government agencies, are generally accrued no later than when a Record of Decision (“ROD”), or equivalent, is issued, or upon completion of a Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study (“RI/FS”), or equivalent, that is submitted by us to the appropriate government agency or agencies. Estimates are reviewed quarterly by our environmental remediation management, as well as by financial and legal management and, if necessary, adjusted as additional information becomes available. The estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of site contamination, required remediation methods, and other actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties.

Our environmental liabilities for continuing and discontinued operations are principally for costs associated with the remediation and/or study of sites at which we are alleged to have released hazardous substances into the environment. Such costs principally include, among other items, RI/FS, site remediation, costs of operation and maintenance of the remediation 

40
plan, management costs, fees to outside law firms and consultants for work related to the environmental effort, and future monitoring costs. Estimated site liabilities are determined based upon existing remediation laws and technologies, specific site consultants’ engineering studies or by extrapolating experience with environmental issues at comparable sites.

Included in our environmental liabilities are costs for the operation, maintenance and monitoring of site remediation plans (OM&M). Such reserves are based on our best estimates for these OM&M plans. Over time we may incur OM&M costs in excess of these reserves. However, we are unable to reasonably estimate an amount in excess of our recorded reserves because we cannot reasonably estimate the period for which such OM&M plans will need to be in place or the future annual cost of such remediation, as conditions at these environmental sites change over time. Such additional OM&M costs could be significant in total but would be incurred over an extended period of years.

Included in the environmental reserve balance, other assets balance and disclosure of reasonably possible loss contingencies are amounts from third party insurance policies, which we believe are probable of recovery.

Provisions for environmental costs are reflected in income, net of probable and estimable recoveries from named Potentially Responsible Parties (“PRPs”) or other third parties. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we increased our reserves for the Pocatello Tribal Matter by $72.8 million, which represents both the historical and discounted present value of future annual use permit fees as well as the associated legal costs. See Note 12 for further information. All other environmental provisions incorporate inflation and are not discounted to their present value. 

In calculating and evaluating the adequacy of our environmental reserves, we have taken into account the joint and several liability imposed by Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and the analogous state laws on all PRPs and have considered the identity and financial condition of the other PRPs at each site to the extent possible. We have also considered the identity and financial condition of other third parties from whom recovery is anticipated, as well as the status of our claims against such parties. Although we are unable to forecast the ultimate contributions of PRPs and other third parties with absolute certainty, the degree of uncertainty with respect to each party is taken into account when determining the environmental reserve by adjusting the reserve to reflect the facts and circumstances on a site-by-site basis. Our liability includes our best estimate of the costs expected to be paid before the consideration of any potential recoveries from third parties. We believe that any recorded recoveries related to PRPs are realizable in all material respects. Recoveries are recorded as either an offset in “Environmental liabilities, continuing and discontinued” or as “Other assets” in our consolidated balance sheets in accordance with U.S. accounting literature.

See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for changes in estimates associated with our environmental obligations.

Impairments and valuation of long-lived and indefinite-lived assets

Our long-lived assets primarily include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are measured at their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired, including identified intangibles, is recorded as goodwill. The determination and allocation of fair value to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is based on various assumptions and valuation methodologies requiring considerable management judgment, including estimates based on historical information, current market data and future expectations. The principal assumptions utilized in our valuation methodologies include revenue growth rates, operating margin estimates and discount rates. Although the estimates were deemed reasonable by management based on information available at the dates of acquisition, those estimates are inherently uncertain.

We test for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the net book value of our property, plant and equipment may not be recoverable from the estimated undiscounted expected future cash flows expected to result from their use and eventual disposition. In cases where the estimated undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than net book value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the amount by which the net book value exceeds the estimated fair value of assets, which is based on discounted cash flows at the lowest level determinable. The estimated cash flows reflect our assumptions about selling prices, volumes, costs and market conditions over a reasonable period of time.

We perform an annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the third quarter of each year, or more frequently whenever an event or change in circumstances occurs that would require reassessment of the recoverability of those assets. In performing our evaluation we assess qualitative factors such as overall financial performance of our reporting units, anticipated changes in industry and market structure, competitive environments, planned capacity and cost factors such as raw material prices. Based on our assessment for 2019, we determined that no goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment charge to our continuing operations was required. 

See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for charges associated with long-lived asset disposal costs and the activity associated with the restructuring reserves.

41
Pension and other postretirement benefits

We provide qualified and nonqualified defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, as well as postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans to our employees and retirees. The costs (benefits) and obligations related to these benefits reflect key assumptions related to general economic conditions, including interest (discount) rates, healthcare cost trend rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and the rates of compensation increase for employees. The costs (benefits) and obligations for these benefit programs are also affected by other assumptions, such as average retirement age, mortality, employee turnover, and plan participation. To the extent our plans’ actual experience, as influenced by changing economic and financial market conditions or by changes to our own plans’ demographics, differs from these assumptions, the costs and obligations for providing these benefits, as well as the plans’ funding requirements, could increase or decrease. When actual results differ from our assumptions, the difference is typically recognized over future periods. In addition, the unrealized gains and losses related to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations may also affect periodic benefit costs (benefits) in future periods.

We use several assumptions and statistical methods to determine the asset values used to calculate both the expected rate of return on assets component of pension cost and to calculate our plans’ funding requirements. The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on a market-related value of assets that recognizes investment gains and losses over a five-year period. We use an actuarial value of assets to determine our plans’ funding requirements. The actuarial value of assets must be within a certain range, high or low, of the actual market value of assets, and is adjusted accordingly.

We select the discount rate used to calculate pension and other postretirement obligations based on a review of available yields on high-quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date. In selecting a discount rate as of December 31, 2019, we placed particular emphasis on a discount rate yield-curve provided by our actuary. This yield-curve, when populated with projected cash flows that represent the expected timing and amount of our plans' benefit payments, produced an effective discount rate of 3.22 percent for our U.S. qualified plan, 2.74 percent for our U.S. nonqualified, and 2.89 percent for our U.S. other postretirement benefit plans.

The discount rates used to determine projected benefit obligation at our December 31, 2019 and 2018 measurement dates for the U.S. qualified plan were 3.22 percent and 4.35 percent, respectively. The effect of the change in the discount rate from 4.35 percent to 3.22 percent at December 31, 2019 resulted in a $152.8 million increase to our U.S. qualified pension benefit obligations. The effect of the change in the discount rate used to determine net annual benefit cost (income) from 3.68 percent at December 31, 2018 to 4.36 percent at December 31, 2019 resulted in a $0.5 million decrease to the 2019 U.S. qualified pension expense. 

The change in discount rate from 4.35 percent at December 31, 2018 to 3.22 percent at December 31, 2019 was attributable to an increase in yields on high quality corporate bonds with cash flows matching the timing and amount of our expected future benefit payments between the 2018 and 2019 measurement dates. Using the December 31, 2019 and 2018 yield curves, our U.S. qualified plan cash flows produced a single weighted-average discount rate of approximately 3.22 percent and 4.35 percent, respectively.

In developing the assumption for the long-term rate of return on assets for our U.S. Plan, we take into consideration the technical analysis performed by our outside actuaries, including historical market returns, information on the assumption for long-term real returns by asset class, inflation assumptions, and expectations for standard deviation related to these best estimates. Our long-term rate of return for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was 4.25 percent, 5.00 percent and 6.50 percent, respectively.

For the sensitivity of our pension costs to incremental changes in assumptions see our discussion below. 

Sensitivity analysis related to key pension and postretirement benefit assumptions.

A one-half percent increase in the assumed discount rate would have decreased pension and other postretirement benefit obligations by $72.1 million and $62.4 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and decreased pension and other postretirement benefit costs by $0.6 million, $0.4 million and $0.4 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A one-half percent decrease in the assumed discount rate would have increased pension and other postretirement benefit obligations by $79.4 million and $68.3 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and increased pension and other postretirement benefit cost by $0.5 million, $0.1 million and $0.4 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

A one-half percent increase in the assumed expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have decreased pension costs by $6.3 million, $6.4 million and $6.0 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A one-half percent decrease in the assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets would have increased pension costs by $6.3 million, $6.4 million and $6.0 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Further details on our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs (benefits) are found in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

42
Income taxes

We have recorded a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets in certain jurisdictions to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the need for this allowance, we have considered a number of factors including future taxable income, the jurisdictions in which such income is earned and our ongoing tax planning strategies. In the event that we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. Similarly, should we conclude that we would be able to realize certain deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made.

Additionally, we file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. Certain income tax returns for FMC entities taxable in the U.S. and significant foreign jurisdictions are open for examination and adjustment. We assess our income tax positions and record a liability for all years open to examination based upon our evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. We adjust these liabilities, if necessary, upon the completion of tax audits or changes in tax law.

On December 22, 2017, the Act was enacted in the United States. The Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and created new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. At December 31, 2018, the Company had completed its accounting for the impacts of the enactment of the Act. 

See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for additional discussion surrounding income taxes.

43
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK