Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Harley-Davidson, Inc. is the parent company of Harley-Davidson Motor Company (HDMC) and Harley-Davidson Financial Services (HDFS). Unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the "Company" include Harley-Davidson, Inc. and all its subsidiaries. The Company operates in two segments: Motorcycles and Related Products (Motorcycles) and Financial Services. 

The “% Change” figures included in the “Results of Operations” section were calculated using unrounded dollar amounts and may differ from calculations using the rounded dollar amounts presented. Certain "% Change" deemed not meaningful (NM) have been excluded.

(1) Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

The Company intends that certain matters discussed in this report are “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such by reference to this footnote or because the context of the statement will include words such as the Company “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “plans,” “may,” “will,” “estimates,” “is on-track” or words of similar meaning. Similarly, statements that describe or refer to future expectations, future plans, strategies, objectives, outlooks, targets, guidance, commitments or goals are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, unfavorably or favorably, from those anticipated as of the date of this report. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described in close proximity to such statements or elsewhere in this report, including in Item 1A. Risk Factors and in “Cautionary Statements” in this Item 7. Shareholders, potential investors, and other readers are urged to consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements and cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in the “Overview” and “Outlook” sections are only made as of January 28, 2020 and the remaining forward-looking statements in this report are only made as of the date of the filing of this report (February 19, 2020), and the Company disclaims any obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

Overview(1) 

The Company’s net income for 2019 was $423.6 million, or $2.68 per diluted share, compared to $531.5 million, or $3.19 per diluted share, in 2018. 

Operating income from the Motorcycles segment in 2019 was down $132.7 million compared to 2018 due primarily to lower wholesale motorcycle shipments, a less favorable product mix and higher costs related to the impact of recent European Union (EU) and China tariffs, partially offset by lower recall costs and lower restructuring expenses. 

Operating income from the Financial Services segment in 2019 was down $25.2 million or 8.6% compared to 2018 due primarily to an increase in the provision for credit losses. 

Worldwide independent dealer retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles decreased 4.3% in 2019 compared to 2018. Retail sales were down 5.2% in the U.S. and decreased 3.0% in international markets compared to 2018. Internationally, retail sales growth in emerging markets was more than offset by declines in developed markets. Retail sales in the U.S. continued to be impacted by a weak U.S. industry; however, the rate of decline for the U.S. industry moderated in 2019. The U.S. 601+cc industry declined 4.1% in 2019 compared to 2018, which was the industry's lowest rate of decline since 2016. The Company expects continued headwinds in 2020 in the U.S. and developed international markets. 

The Company plans to continue to address these market challenges by focusing on its strategy to build the next generation of riders globally and executing its “More Roads to Harley-Davidson” (More Roads) plan. The More Roads plan, which extends from 2018 to 2022, is designed to accelerate the Company's progress towards building committed riders globally and deliver significant growth starting in 2021. One of the Company's objectives is to expand total Harley-Davidson riders in the U.S. to 4 million by the end of 2027. This objective is focused on both attracting and retaining more riders each year. 

At the end of 2019, there were 3.1 million Harley-Davidson riders in the U.S., 55,000 more total riders than at the end of 2018. During 2019, 527,000 riders joined the Harley-Davidson brand in the U.S., 25,000 more than the number that joined Harley-Davidson in 2018.* (*Data and analysis based on IHS Markit Motorcycles in Operation (MIO) for On-Highway and Dual purpose bikes in the U.S. Snapshot based on data as of Dec. 31, 2019 compared to Dec. 31, 2018. IHS Markit reports, data and information referenced herein (the “IHS Markit Materials”) are the copyrighted property of IHS Markit Ltd. and its subsidiaries (“IHS Markit”). The IHS Markit Materials are from sources considered reliable; however, the accuracy and completeness thereof are not warranted, nor are the opinions and analyses published by IHS Markit representations of fact. The 

23

IHS Markit Materials speak as of the original publication date thereof and are subject to change without notice. IHS Markit and other trademarks appearing in the IHS Markit Materials are the property of IHS Markit or their respective owners.) 

The Company aims to continue to improve annual progress towards building committed riders to reach its 2027 objective and is executing its More Roads plan to do so. The Company believes it advanced its More Roads plan during 2019 and is on-track to realize its expectation of significant growth in 2021.

Outlook(1) 

On January 28, 2020, the Company announced the following expectations for 2020.

Motorcycles and Related Products Segment – In 2020, the Company expects Motorcycles segment revenue to be approximately $4.53 billion to $4.66 billion, or down 1% to up 2% compared to 2019. Beginning in 2020, the Company is providing revenue guidance in place of motorcycle shipment guidance. The Company believes revenue is a more comprehensive view of the business given the breadth of revenue growth drivers included in the More Roads plan that would not be reflected in motorcycle shipments. These include things such as small displacement motorcycles, electric bicycles, electric two-wheelers for kids and an expanded focus on broadening access to general merchandise products. As the Company transitions from motorcycle shipment guidance to revenue guidance. it provided the following outlook for motorcycle shipments. The Company expects 2020 worldwide motorcycle shipments, including its 601+cc and LiveWire™ motorcycles, to be down modestly, to up slightly, compared to 2019. 

The Company expects U.S. retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles to be lower in 2020 compared to 2019 behind lower U.S. industry sales, but expects the rate of decline to continue to temper during 2020.

During 2020, the Company expects worldwide retail sales to be positively impacted by:

•Its focus on increasing committed riders and investment in the Stronger Dealers growth catalyst of the More Roads plan

•Its model year 2020 and 2021 motorcycles, including the Pan America™ and Harley-Davidson® Bronx™ middleweight models in late 2020

•Expansion of the international independent dealer network

However, the Company expects these positive sales impacts to continue to be met by strong headwinds, including:

•A declining U.S. motorcycle industry 

•A relative shift in rider preference toward market segments in which the Company does not currently compete, but plans to enter by the end of 2020

•A marketplace crowded with highly competitive promotions, incentives and discounts

In 2020, Motorcycles segment operating margin as a percent of revenue is expected to be between 7% and 8%, up from 2019 operating margin of 6.3%.

Gross margin is expected to increase in 2020 behind lower year-over-year EU and China tariffs and strong operational productivity, including approximately $23 million in incremental Manufacturing Optimization Plan savings, partially offset by unfavorable changes in product mix. Refer to the “Restructuring Plan Costs and Savings” section below for further information regarding the Manufacturing Optimization Plan. 

During 2020, the Company expects the impact of recent EU and China tariffs to be approximately $35 million, which is down significantly from the 2019 impact of recent EU and China tariffs of $97.9 million. The 2020 estimate includes EU tariffs of approximately $20 million resulting from the shipment of remaining high-tariff inventory in Europe and continued tariffs on Trike and CVO™ models which the Company will continue to produce in the U.S. In addition, the Company expects to incur approximately $15 million from U.S. tariffs on imports from China (Section 301 tariffs).

While the Company plans to drive cost out of Selling, administrative and engineering expense, it expects operating expenses to be higher in 2020 due to increased investment in the More Roads plan and the absence of benefits recorded in 2019 related to recalls. In 2019, the Company recognized approximately $34 million of recall benefits primarily driven by supplier recoveries that are not expected to repeat in 2020. In 2020, investment in the More Roads plan is expected to peak as the Company finalizes product development and plans to launch:

•New middleweight motorcycles

•Electric bicycles

•A small displacement motorcycle in China

Finally, the Company does not expect to incur restructuring expense in 2020, which will compare favorably to $32.4 million of restructuring expense in 2019.

24

Looking to the first quarter of 2020, the Company expects Motorcycles segment revenue to be between $1.09 billion and $1.17 billion, down 2% to 9% compared to the first quarter of 2019. First quarter 2020 Motorcycles segment operating margin as a percent of revenue is also expected to be down approximately 2.5 percentage points compared to the prior year. First quarter 2020 Motorcycles segment gross margin is expected to be flat to the prior year driven by favorable tariff impacts and increased productivity, which are expected to be offset by unfavorable mix. Selling, administrative and engineering expense is expected to be higher in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019 due primarily to the recall benefit of approximately $28.0 million recorded in 2019.

Financial Services Segment – The Company expects 2020 Financial Services segment operating income to be approximately flat compared to 2019 driven by modestly higher interest income largely offset by an increased provision for credit losses and higher interest expense as some lower rate debt matured during 2019. Credit losses are expected to be slightly higher due in part to increased expected loss experience on certain financing programs. 

Effective January 1, 2020, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13). Adoption of this standard will impact how the Company recognizes credit losses on its financial instruments. The Company has completed its work surrounding model development, documentation and validation as well as its evaluation of associated processes, data sources, internal controls and policies. The Company is working through its remaining steps for the adoption of ASU 2016-13, which includes finalizing assumptions related to economic forecasts and appropriate qualitative factors and their associated processes and internal controls. The impact of adoption is expected to result in an initial increase in the allowance for credit losses in the range of $70.0 million to $110.0 million, with a decrease in retained earnings net of taxes.

The initial change in the allowance for credit losses at adoption and the ongoing effect of ASU 2016-13 on the provision for credit losses will be impacted by the size and composition of the Company's finance receivables portfolio, economic conditions, reasonable and supportable forecasts, and other appropriate factors at each reporting period. Favorable or unfavorable changes in these key factors may cause additional volatility in the provision for credit losses and, therefore, Financial Services segment operating income.

Harley-Davidson, Inc. – Capital expenditures in 2020 are expected to be $215 million to $235 million. The Company anticipates it will have the ability to fund all capital expenditures in 2020 with cash flows generated by operations.

The Company expects its 2020 full year effective tax rate will be approximately 24% to 25%. This guidance excludes the effect of potential future adjustments, including items associated with any potential new tax legislation or audit settlements. 

Restructuring Plan Costs and Savings(1) 

In January 2018, the Company commenced a significant, multi-year manufacturing optimization plan anchored by the consolidation of its plant in Kansas City, Missouri into its plant in York, Pennsylvania and the closure of the Company's wheel operations in Adelaide, Australia (Manufacturing Optimization Plan). The consolidation of U.S. operations included the elimination of approximately 800 jobs at the Kansas City facility and the addition of approximately 450 jobs at the York facility. The Adelaide facility closure resulted in the elimination of approximately 90 jobs. 

In November 2018, the Company implemented a reorganization of its workforce (Reorganization Plan). As a result, approximately 70 employees left the Company on an involuntary basis. 

25

The Company does not expect to incur any additional costs under the restructuring plans in 2020. The actual costs and estimated savings associated with the restructuring plans were as follows (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding restructuring expenses. 

Results of Operations 2019 Compared to 2018 

Consolidated Results 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated operating income was down 22.1% in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by a decrease in operating income from the Motorcycles segment of $132.7 million and a decrease in operating income from the Financial Services segment of $25.2 million. Refer to the Motorcycles and Related Products Segment and Financial Services Segment discussions for a more detailed analysis of the factors affecting operating income.

Other income in 2019 was favorably impacted by lower amortization of actuarial losses related to the Company's defined benefit plans. Investment income increased in 2019 as compared to 2018 due to favorable changes in the fair value of the Company's marketable securities and cash equivalents.

The effective income tax rate for 2019 was 24.0% compared to 22.6% for 2018. The higher effective income tax rate was primarily due to favorable discrete income tax adjustments recorded in 2018.

26

Diluted earnings per share were $2.68 in 2019, down 16.0% compared to 2018. Diluted earnings per share were adversely impacted by the 20.3% decrease in net income, but benefited from lower diluted weighted average shares outstanding. Diluted weighted average shares outstanding decreased from 166.5 million in 2018 to 157.8 million in 2019 driven by the Company's repurchases of common stock. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information concerning the Company's share repurchase activity.

Motorcycle Retail Sales and Registration Data

Harley-Davidson Motorcycle Retail Sales(a) 

Retail unit sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a)Data source for retail sales figures shown above is new sales warranty and registration information provided by Harley-Davidson dealers and compiled by the Company. The Company must rely on information that its independent dealers supply concerning new retail sales, and the Company does not regularly verify the information that its independent dealers supply. This information is subject to revision.

(b)Europe data includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom

(c)Asia Pacific data includes Japan, Australia, New Zealand and Korea

Retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the U.S. were down 5.2% in 2019 compared to 2018 behind continued declines in the 601+cc U.S. industry, which was down 4.1% compared to 2018. However, the Company was encouraged by the tempering rates of decline experienced from 2018 to 2019. In 2018, retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 10.2% and the 601+cc U.S. industry was down 8.7%, compared to 2017. The Company believes retail sales trends for new Harley-Davidson motorcycles have benefited from a tempered rate of decline in the U.S. industry, the Company's focus on its Stronger Dealers growth catalyst of the More Roads plan and increased marketing investments.

The Company's U.S. market share of new 601+cc motorcycles for 2019 was 49.1%, down 0.6 percentage points compared to 2018. The Company's U.S. market share reflected the adverse impact of relatively strong growth in segments in which the Company does not currently compete. In the cruiser and touring segments, which represent approximately 70% of the 601+cc market and where the Company currently competes, its market share was up 2.5 percentage points on a full-year basis (Source: Motorcycle Industry Council).

International retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were down 3.0% in 2019. Retail sales in developed markets were down 6.0% during 2019 partially offset by higher retail sales in emerging markets, which increased 5.0%. Retail sales increases in emerging markets during 2019 were driven by growth in various markets, including China and the Company's Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) markets. The Company's Thailand manufacturing facility, which enables lower tariffs, was a key factor supporting growth in the Company's ASEAN markets. 

27

In developed international markets, retail sales across most European markets were down in 2019 given strong 2018 initial retail sales of the Company's new Softail® motorcycles and due to lower Street sales, which were adversely impacted by a recall initiated in early 2019. Additionally, retail sales were down in Japan and Australia in 2019 compared to 2018 behind contracting industry sales and for Japan competitive new product introductions outside of the touring and cruiser segments. 

The Company's European market share of new 601+cc motorcycles for 2019 was 8.9%, down 1.4 percentage points compared to 2018 (Source: Association des Constructeurs Europeens de Motocycles). 

The international independent dealer network expanded during 2019, adding 27 new independent dealer points during the year. The Company remains confident in and committed to the significant potential that international markets offer Harley-Davidson. The Company believes it has the brand, products and distribution network to drive sustainable growth in international markets.(1) 

Motorcycle Registration Data - 601+cc(a) 

Industry retail registration data for new motorcycles was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Data includes on-road models with internal combustion engines with displacements greater than 600cc's and in the United States electric motorcycles with kilowatt (kW) peak power equivalents greater than 600cc's (601+cc). On-road 601+cc models include dual purpose models, three-wheeled motorcycles and autocycles. Registration data for Harley-Davidson Street® 500 motorcycles is not included in this table.

(b)United States industry data is derived from information provided by Motorcycle Industry Council. This third-party data is subject to revision and update.

(c)Europe data includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Industry retail motorcycle registration data includes 601+cc models derived from information provided by Association des Constructeurs Europeens de Motocycles, an independent agency. This third-party data is subject to revision and update.

Motorcycles and Related Products Segment

Motorcycle Unit Shipments

Wholesale Harley-Davidson motorcycle unit shipments were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2019, Harley-Davidson motorcycle shipments were down 6.4% compared to the prior year and in line with the Company's guidance. The mix of Touring motorcycles decreased as a percent of total shipments while the mix of Cruiser and Sportster®/Street motorcycles increased compared to 2018. 

28

At the end of 2019, U.S. independent dealer retail inventory of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles was down approximately 1,500 motorcycles compared to the end of 2018. The Company plans to continue to aggressively manage supply in line with demand. However, the Company does expect 2020 year-end worldwide retail inventory to increase moderately compared to 2019 behind dealer fill of the Company's new middleweight motorcycles and with the replenishment of European dealer inventory, which was reduced at the end of 2019 in anticipation of low-tariff motorcycles sourced from the Company's Thailand facility.(1)  

Segment Results

Condensed statements of operations for the Motorcycles segment were as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The estimated impacts of the significant factors affecting the comparability of revenue, cost of goods sold and gross profit from 2018 to 2019 were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following factors affected the comparability of net revenue, cost of goods sold and gross profit from 2018 to 2019:

•The decrease in volume was due to lower wholesale motorcycle shipments and lower P&A and general merchandise sales.

•On average, wholesale prices for motorcycles shipped in 2019 were higher than in the prior year resulting in a favorable impact on revenue. The positive impact on revenue was partially offset by increased costs related to the additional content added to motorcycles shipped in 2019 as compared to the prior year. 

•Revenue was adversely impacted by weaker foreign currency exchange rates, relative to the U.S. dollar, as compared to the prior year. The unfavorable revenue impact was partially offset by favorable net foreign currency gains associated with hedging and balance sheet remeasurements, as compared to the prior year. 

29

•Shipment mix adversely impacted gross profit driven by unfavorable changes in the mix of motorcycle families, as well as the mix of models within motorcycle families.

•Manufacturing and other costs were negatively impacted by lower fixed cost absorption and an increase in the impact of recent EU and China tariffs. The impact of recent EU and China tariffs was $97.9 million or $74.2 million higher in 2019 compared to 2018. 

Operating expenses in 2019 were lower compared to 2018 driven by lower restructuring expenses and favorable net warranty and recall costs. In 2019, net warranty and recall costs were approximately $96 million lower than in 2018 driven by higher than normal supplier recoveries and lower warranty and recall costs. Operating expenses were also impacted by increased investments in the More Roads plan and higher marketing expenses in 2019. However, these increases were partially offset by lower spending in other areas as the Company aggressively managed cost.

Financial Services Segment

Segment Results

Condensed statements of operations for the Financial Services segment were as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income was favorable in 2019 due to higher average outstanding finance receivables at higher average yields. Interest expense increased due to higher average outstanding debt at a higher cost of funds.

The provision for credit losses increased $27.7 million compared to 2018. The retail motorcycle provision increased $27.2 million largely driven by higher retail credit losses and an increase in the retail reserve rate compared to a decrease in the retail reserve rate during 2018. The Company believes the increase in credit losses was due to inefficiencies resulting from the implementation of a new loan management system early in 2019, softer used motorcycle prices at auction, and the impact of the Company's strategic efforts to build riders, which includes programs such as first-time buyer and dealer-paid no-money down. While these loans may increase the Company's credit losses, the increased revenue from these programs is expected to offset the risk(1). 

Annual losses on the Company's retail motorcycle loans were 2.00% during 2019 compared to 1.76% in 2018. The 30-day delinquency rate for retail motorcycle loans at December 31, 2019 increased to 4.39% from 4.12% at December 31, 2018. 

Operating expenses increased $21.1 million compared to 2018, which includes higher depreciation associated with the implementation of a new loan management system. 

Changes in the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables were as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2019, the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables was $188.5 million for retail receivables and $10.1 million for wholesale receivables. At December 31, 2018, the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables was $182.1 million for retail receivables and $7.8 million for wholesale receivables. 

30

The Company's periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses on finance receivables is generally based on the Company's past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, current economic conditions and the estimated value of any underlying collateral. Refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the Company’s allowance for credit losses on finance receivables.

Results of Operations 2018 Compared to 2017 

Refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019 for a detailed discussion of the results of operations for 2018 compared to 2017 and liquidity and capital resources for 2018 compared to 2017.

Other Matters

New Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted

Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements for a discussion of new accounting standards that will become effective for the Company in 2020 and 2021.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The Company’s financial statements are based on the selection and application of significant accounting policies, which require management to make significant estimates and assumptions. Management believes that the following are some of the more critical judgment areas in the application of accounting policies that currently affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.

Allowance for Credit Losses on Retail Finance Receivables – The allowance for uncollectible accounts is maintained at a level management believes is adequate to cover the losses of principal in the existing retail finance receivables portfolio. 

The retail portfolio consists of a large number of small balance, homogeneous finance receivables. The Company performs a periodic and systematic collective evaluation of the adequacy of the retail allowance. The Company utilizes loss forecast models which consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss trends, origination or vintage analysis, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, the value of the underlying collateral, recovery rates and current economic conditions including items such as unemployment rates.

Product Warranty and Recalls – Estimated warranty costs are recorded at the time of sale and are based on a combination of historical claim cost data and other known factors that may affect future warranty claims. The estimated costs associated with voluntary recalls are recorded when the liability is both probable and estimable. The accrued cost of a recall is based on an estimate of the cost to repair each affected motorcycle and the number of motorcycles expected to be repaired based on historical data concerning the percentage of affected customers that take advantage of recall offers. In the case of both warranty and recall costs, as actual experience becomes available it is used to update the accruals. 

The factors affecting actual warranty and recall costs can be volatile. As a result, actual warranty claims experience and recall costs may differ from estimates, which could lead to material changes in the Company’s accrued warranty and recall costs. The Company’s warranty and recall liabilities are discussed further in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements.

Pensions and Other Postretirement Healthcare Benefits – The Company has a defined benefit pension plan and postretirement healthcare benefit plans, which cover certain eligible employees and retirees of the Motorcycles segment. The Company also has unfunded supplemental employee retirement plan agreements (SERPA) with certain employees, which were instituted to replace benefits lost under the Tax Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993.

U.S. GAAP requires that companies recognize in their statement of financial position a liability for defined benefit pension and postretirement plans that are underfunded or an asset for defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans that are overfunded.

Pension, SERPA and postretirement healthcare obligations and costs are calculated through actuarial valuations. The valuation of benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs relies on key assumptions including discount rates, mortality, long-term expected return on plan assets, future compensation and healthcare cost trend rates.

31

The Company determines its discount rate assumptions by referencing high-quality long-term bond rates that are matched to the duration of its benefit obligations. Based on this analysis, the Company decreased the weighted-average discount rate for pension and SERPA obligations from 4.38% as of December 31, 2018 to 3.49% as of December 31, 2019. The Company decreased the weighted-average discount rate for postretirement healthcare obligations from 4.23% as of December 31, 2018 to 3.26% as of December 31, 2019. The Company determines its healthcare trend assumption for the postretirement healthcare obligation by considering factors such as estimated healthcare inflation, the utilization of healthcare benefits and changes in the health of plan participants. Based on the Company’s assessment of this data as of December 31, 2019, the Company set its healthcare cost trend rate at 7.25% as of December 31, 2019. The Company expects the healthcare cost trend rate to reach its ultimate rate of 5.00% by 2029.(1) These assumption changes were reflected immediately in the benefit obligation and will be amortized into net periodic benefit costs over future periods.

Plan assets are measured at fair value and are subject to market volatility. In estimating the expected return on plan assets, the Company considers the historical returns on plan assets, adjusted to reflect the current view of the long-term investment market.

Changes in the funded status of defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans resulting from the difference between assumptions and actual results are initially recognized in other comprehensive income and amortized to expense over future periods. Sensitivity to changes in major assumptions used in the pension and postretirement healthcare obligations and costs was as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The amounts based on current assumptions above exclude the impact of settlements, curtailments and special early retirement benefits. This information should not be viewed as predictive of future amounts. The analysis of the impact of a 1% change in the table above does not take into account the cost related to special termination benefits. The calculations of pension, SERPA and postretirement healthcare obligations and costs are based on many factors in addition to those discussed here. This information should be considered in combination with the information provided in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements.

Income Taxes – The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes (Topic 740). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and other loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.

The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. These tax laws and regulations are complex and significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related deferred tax assets and liabilities. 

In the ordinary course of the Company’s business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Accruals for unrecognized tax benefits are provided for in accordance with the requirements of Topic 740. An unrecognized tax benefit represents the difference between the recognition of benefits related to items for income tax reporting purposes and financial reporting purposes. The unrecognized tax benefit is included within Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets. The Company has a liability for interest and penalties on exposure items, if applicable, which is recorded as a component of the overall income tax provision. The Company is regularly audited by tax authorities as a normal course of business. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the Company believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on its tax returns and that its annual tax provision includes amounts sufficient to pay any assessments(1). Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year.

32

Contractual Obligations

A summary of the Company’s expected payments for significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 is as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest for floating rate instruments, as calculated above, assumes rates in effect at December 31, 2019 remain constant. For purposes of the above, the principal payment balances for medium-term notes, on-balance sheet asset-backed securitizations, and senior unsecured notes are shown without reduction for unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs.

As of December 31, 2019, the Company generally had no significant purchase obligations, other than those created in the ordinary course of business. Purchase orders issued for inventory and supplies used in product manufacturing generally do not become firm commitments until 90 days prior to expected delivery and can be modified to a certain extent until 30 days prior to expected delivery.

The Company has long-term obligations related to its pension, SERPA and postretirement healthcare plans at December 31, 2019. The Company’s retirement plan obligations and expected future contributions and payments related to these plans are provided in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements.

As described in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements, the Company has unrecognized tax benefits of $60.1 million and accrued interest and penalties of $27.6 million as of December 31, 2019. However, the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement for either the liability for unrecognized tax benefits or accrued interest and penalties.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company is subject to lawsuits and other claims related to environmental, product and other matters. In determining costs to accrue related to these items, the Company carefully analyzes cases and considers the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes, as well as the potential range of possible loss. Any amounts accrued for these matters are monitored on an ongoing basis and are updated based on new developments or new information as it becomes available for each matter.

Environmental Protection Agency Notice – In December 2009, the Company received formal, written requests for information from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding: (i) certificates of conformity for motorcycle emissions and related designations and labels, (ii) aftermarket parts, and (iii) warranty claims on emissions related components. The Company promptly submitted written responses to the EPA’s inquiry and has engaged in information exchanges and discussions with the EPA. In August 2016, the Company entered into a consent decree with the EPA regarding these issues, and the consent decree was subsequently revised in July 2017 (the Settlement). In the Settlement, the Company agreed to, among other things, pay a fine, and not sell tuning products unless they are approved by the EPA or California Air Resources Board. In December 2017, the Department of Justice (DOJ), on behalf of the EPA, filed the Settlement with the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia for the purpose of obtaining court approval of the Settlement. Three amicus briefs opposing portions of the Settlement were filed with the court by the deadline of January 31, 2018. On March 1, 2018, the Company and the DOJ each filed separate response briefs. The Company is awaiting the court's decision on whether or not to finalize the Settlement, and on February 8, 2019, the DOJ filed a status update reminding the court of the current status of the outstanding matter. The Company has an accrual associated with this matter recorded in Accrued liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets, and as a result, if it is finalized, the Settlement would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Settlement is not final until it is approved by the court, and if it is not approved by the court, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the impact of any remedies the EPA might seek beyond the Company's current reserve for this matter.

33

York Environmental Matter – The Company is involved with government agencies and the U.S. Navy related to a matter involving the cleanup of soil and groundwater contamination at its York, Pennsylvania facility. The York facility was formerly used by the U.S. Navy and AMF prior to the purchase of the York facility by the Company from AMF in 1981. The Company has an agreement with the U.S. Navy which calls for the U.S. Navy and the Company to contribute amounts into a trust equal to 53% and 47%, respectively, of costs associated with environmental investigation and remediation activities at the York facility (Response Costs). A site wide remedial investigation/feasibility study and a proposed final remedy for the York facility have been completed and approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and the EPA. The associated cleanup plan documents were submitted for approval in December 2019 and remaining cleanup activities will begin in mid-2020. The Company has an accrual for its share of the estimated future Response Costs recorded in Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.

Product Liability Matters – The Company is involved in product liability suits related to the operation of its business. The Company accrues for claim exposures that are probable of occurrence and can be reasonably estimated. The Company also maintains insurance coverage for product liability exposures. The Company believes that its accruals and insurance coverage are adequate and that product liability suits will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s Consolidated financial statements.(1) 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company participates in asset-backed financing both through asset-backed securitization transactions and through asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities. In the Company's asset-backed financing programs, the Company transfers retail motorcycle finance receivables to special purpose entities (SPEs), which are considered variable interest entities (VIEs) under U.S. GAAP. Each SPE then converts those assets into cash, through the issuance of debt. The Company retains servicing rights for all of the retail motorcycle finance receivables transferred to SPEs as part of an asset-backed financing.

The SPEs are separate legal entities that assume the risks and rewards of ownership of the retail motorcycle finance receivables they hold. The assets of the VIEs are not available to pay other obligations or claims of the Company’s creditors. The Company’s economic exposure related to the VIEs is generally limited to restricted cash reserve accounts, retained interests and ordinary representations and warranties and related covenants. The VIEs have a limited life and generally terminate upon final distribution of amounts owed to investors.

The accounting treatment for asset-backed financings depends on the terms of the related transaction and the Company’s continuing involvement with the VIE. Most of the Company’s asset-backed financings do not meet the criteria to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes as the Company, in addition to retaining servicing rights, retains a financial interest in the VIE in the form of a debt security. These transactions are treated as secured borrowings. As secured borrowings, the retail motorcycle finance receivables remain on the balance sheet with a corresponding obligation reflected as debt.

During 2016, the Company sold finance receivables with a principal balance of $301.8 million into a securitization VIE. The transaction met the criteria to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes and resulted in an off-balance sheet arrangement as the Company did not retain any financial interest in the VIE beyond servicing rights and ordinary representations and warranties and related covenants. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Liquidity and Capital Resources as of December 31, 2019 

Over the long-term, the Company expects that its business model will continue to generate cash that will allow it to invest in the business, fund future growth opportunities, and return value to shareholders.(1) The Company will continue to evaluate opportunities to return cash to its shareholders through increasing dividends and repurchasing shares. The Company believes the Motorcycles segment operations will continue to be primarily funded through cash flows generated by operations.(1) The Company expects the Financial Services segment operations to continue to be funded with unsecured debt, unsecured commercial paper, asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities, committed unsecured bank facilities, and asset-backed securitizations.(1) 

34

The Company’s strategy is to maintain a minimum of twelve months of its projected liquidity needs through a combination of cash and cash equivalents and availability under its credit facilities. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents and availability under its credit and conduit facilities at December 31, 2019 were as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes facilities expiring in the next twelve months which the Company expects to renew prior to expiration.(1) 

The Company recognizes that it must continue to monitor and adjust its business to changes in the lending environment. The Company intends to continue with a diversified funding profile through a combination of short-term and long-term funding vehicles and to pursue a variety of sources to obtain cost-effective funding.(1) The Financial Services operations could be negatively affected by higher costs of funding and increased difficulty of raising, or potential unsuccessful efforts to raise, funding in the short-term and long-term capital markets.(1) These negative consequences could in turn adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its Financial Services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing shareholders through the use of alternative sources of capital.

Cash Flow Activity

Cash flow activities for the years ended December 31, were as follows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The decrease in operating cash flow in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to lower sales and unfavorable changes in working capital including the impact of utilizing restructuring and recall liabilities in 2019. 

There are no required qualified pension plan contributions expected in 2020.(1) The Company expects that 2020 postretirement healthcare plan benefits and benefits due under the SERPA will be paid by the Company or, in the case of postretirement healthcare plan benefits, partially funded with plan assets.(1) The Company’s expected future contributions and benefit payments related to these plans are discussed further in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements.

Investing Activities

The Company’s most significant investing activities consist of capital expenditures and retail finance receivable originations and collections. Capital expenditures were $181.4 million and $213.5 million during 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company anticipates it will continue to have the ability to fund all planned capital expenditures in 2020 with cash flows generated by operations.(1) 

Net cash outflows for finance receivables in 2019, which consisted primarily of retail finance receivables, were $79.5 million lower than in 2018 primarily due to higher retail motorcycle loan collections during 2019. 

35

Financing Activities

The Company’s financing activities consist primarily of dividend payments, share repurchases and debt activity.

The Company paid dividends of $1.50 per share totaling $237.2 million during 2019 and $1.48 per share totaling $245.8 million during 2018.

Cash outflows from share repurchases were $296.5 million and $390.6 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively. Discretionary share repurchases during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were $286.7 million or 8.2 million shares and $382.0 million or 9.2 million shares, respectively. Share repurchases of common stock that employees surrendered to satisfy withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units were $9.8 million or 0.3 million shares and $8.6 million or 0.2 million shares during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, there were 8.2 million shares remaining on a board-approved share repurchase authorization.

Financing cash flows related to debt activity resulted in net cash (outflows)/inflows of $(182.1) million and $618.1 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company’s total outstanding debt consisted of the following as of December 31, (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

To access the debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit rating agencies to assign short-term and long-term credit ratings. Generally, lower credit ratings result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to debt capital markets. A credit rating agency may change or withdraw the Company’s ratings based on its assessment of the Company’s current and future ability to meet interest and principal repayment obligations. The Company’s short-term debt ratings affect its ability to issue unsecured commercial paper. The Company’s short- and long-term debt ratings as of December 31, 2019 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Facilities – In May 2019, the Company entered into a $195.0 million 364-day credit facility which matures in May 2020. The Company also has a $780.0 million five-year credit facility which matures in April 2023 and a $765.0 million five-year credit facility which matures in April 2021. The new 364-day credit facility and the five-year credit facilities (together, the Global Credit Facilities) bear interest at variable rates, which may be adjusted upward or downward depending on certain criteria, such as credit ratings. The Global Credit Facilities also require the Company to pay a fee based on the average daily unused portion of the aggregate commitments under the Global Credit Facilities. The Global Credit Facilities are committed facilities primarily used to support the Company's unsecured commercial paper program. 

Unsecured Commercial Paper – Subject to limitations, the Company could issue unsecured commercial paper of up to $1.74 billion as of December 31, 2019 supported by the Global Credit Facilities. Outstanding unsecured commercial paper may not exceed the unused portion of the Global Credit Facilities. Maturities may range up to 365 days from the issuance date. The Company intends to repay unsecured commercial paper as it matures with additional unsecured commercial paper or through other means, such as borrowing under the Global Credit Facilities, borrowing under its asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduit facilities or through the use of operating cash flow and cash on hand.(1) 

36

Medium-Term Notes – The Company has the following unsecured medium-term notes issued and outstanding at December 31, 2019 (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Euro denominated €600.0 million par value remeasured to U.S. dollar at December 31, 2019

The fixed-rate medium-term notes provide for semi-annual interest payments and the floating-rate medium-term notes provide for quarterly interest payments. Principal on the medium-term notes is due at maturity. Unamortized discount and debt issuance costs on medium-term notes reduced the outstanding balance by $12.8 million and $13.0 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Senior Notes – In July 2015, the Company issued $750.0 million of unsecured senior notes in an underwritten offering. The senior notes provide for semi-annual interest payments and principal due at maturity. $450.0 million of the senior notes mature in July 2025 and have an interest rate of 3.50%, and $300.0 million of the senior notes mature in July 2045 and have an interest rate of 4.625%. The Company used the proceeds from the debt to repurchase shares of its common stock in 2015.

 On-Balance Sheet Asset-Backed Canadian Commercial Paper Conduit Facility – The Company has a revolving facility agreement (Canadian Conduit) with a Canadian bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper conduit. Under the agreement, the Canadian Conduit is contractually committed, at the Company's option, to purchase from the Company eligible Canadian retail motorcycle finance receivables for proceeds up to C$220.0 million. The transferred assets are restricted as collateral for the payment of the debt. The terms for this facility provide for interest on the outstanding principal based on prevailing market interest rates plus a specified margin. The Canadian Conduit also provides for a program fee and an unused commitment fee based on the unused portion of the total aggregate commitment of C$220.0 million. There is no amortization schedule; however, the debt is reduced monthly as available collections on the related finance receivables are applied to outstanding principal. Upon expiration of the Canadian Conduit, any outstanding principal will continue to be reduced monthly through available collections. The expected remaining term of the related receivables is approximately 5 years. Unless earlier terminated or extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the lenders, as of December 31, 2019, the Canadian Conduit has an expiration date of June 26, 2020.

Quarterly transfers of Canadian retail motorcycle finance receivables to the Canadian Conduit and the respective proceeds include the following for the years ended December 31, (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On-Balance Sheet Asset-Backed U.S. Commercial Paper Conduit Facilities VIE – The Company has two separate agreements with third-party bank-sponsored asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduits under which it may transfer U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables to an SPE, which in turn may issue debt to those third-party bank-sponsored asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduits. In May 2019, the Company amended its $300.0 million revolving facility agreement to allow for incremental borrowings, at the lender's discretion, of up to an additional $300.0 million in excess of the $300.0 million commitment. The aggregate commitment under this agreement is reduced monthly as collections on the related finance 

37

receivables are applied to the outstanding principal until the outstanding principal balance is less than or equal to $300.0 million, at which point the aggregate commitment will equal $300.0 million. On November 27, 2019, the Company renewed its existing $600.0 million and amended $300.0 million revolving facility agreements with third-party bank-sponsored asset-backed U.S. commercial paper conduits. Availability under the revolving facilities (together, the U.S. Conduit Facilities) is based on, among other things, the amount of eligible U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables held by the SPE as collateral. 

Quarterly transfers of U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables to the U.S. Conduit Facilities and the respective proceeds include the following for the years ended December 31, (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The terms for this debt provide for interest on the outstanding principal based on prevailing commercial paper rates or LIBOR to the extent the advance is not funded by a conduit lender through the issuance of commercial paper plus, in each case, a program fee based on outstanding principal. The U.S. Conduit Facilities also provide for an unused commitment fee based on the unused portion of the total aggregate commitment. There is no amortization schedule; however, the debt will be reduced monthly as available collections on the related finance receivables are applied to outstanding principal. Upon expiration of the U.S. Conduit Facilities, any outstanding principal will continue to be reduced monthly through available collections. The expected remaining term of the related receivables held by the SPE is approximately 5 years. Unless earlier terminated or extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the lenders, the U.S. Conduit Facilities have an expiration date of November 25, 2020.

Asset-Backed Securitization VIEs – For all of its asset-backed securitization transactions, the Company transfers U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables to separate VIEs, which in turn issue secured notes with various maturities and interest rates to investors. All of the notes held by the VIEs are secured by future collections of the purchased U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables. The U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables included in the asset-backed securitization transactions are not available to pay other obligations or claims of the Company's creditors until the associated debt and other obligations are satisfied. Restricted cash balances held by the VIEs are used only to support the asset-backed securitizations.

The accounting treatment for asset-backed securitizations depends on the terms of the related transaction and the Company’s continuing involvement with the VIE. Most of the Company’s asset-backed securitizations do not meet the criteria to be accounted for as a sale because, in addition to retaining servicing rights, the Company retains a financial interest in the VIE in the form of a debt security. These transactions are treated as secured borrowings. As secured borrowings, the retail motorcycle finance receivables remain on the balance sheet with a corresponding obligation reflected as debt. There is no amortization schedule for the secured notes; however, the debt is reduced monthly as available collections on the related retail motorcycle finance receivables are applied to outstanding principal. The secured notes have various contractual maturities ranging from 2020 to 2026.

In 2019, the Company transferred $1.12 billion of U.S. retail motorcycle finance receivables to two separate SPEs. The SPEs in turn issued $1.03 billion, or $1.02 billion net of discounts and issuance costs, of secured notes through two separate on-balance sheet asset-backed securitization transactions. There were no on-balance sheet asset-backed securitization transactions during 2018. There were no off-balance sheet asset-backed securitization transactions during 2019 or 2018. 

Support Agreement - The Company has a support agreement with HDFS whereby, if required, the Company agrees to provide HDFS with financial support to maintain HDFS’ fixed-charge coverage at 1.25 and minimum net worth of $40.0 million. Support may be provided at the Company’s option as capital contributions or loans. Accordingly, certain debt covenants may restrict the Company’s ability to withdraw funds from HDFS outside the normal course of business. No amount has ever been provided to HDFS under the support agreement.

Operating and Financial Covenants – HDFS and the Company are subject to various operating and financial covenants related to the credit facilities and various operating covenants under the medium-term and senior notes and the U.S. and Canadian asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities. The more significant covenants are described below.

38

The operating covenants limit the Company’s and HDFS’ ability to:

•Assume or incur certain liens;

•Participate in certain mergers or consolidations; and

•Purchase or hold margin stock.

Under the current financial covenants of the Global Credit Facilities, the ratio of HDFS’ consolidated debt, excluding secured debt, to HDFS’ consolidated shareholders' equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCL), cannot exceed 10.0 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. In addition, the ratio of the Company's consolidated debt to the Company's consolidated debt and consolidated shareholders’ equity (where the Company's consolidated debt in each case excludes that of HDFS and its subsidiaries, and the Company's consolidated shareholders’ equity excluding AOCL), cannot exceed 0.7 to 1.0 as of the end of any fiscal quarter. No financial covenants are required under the medium-term and senior notes or the U.S. or Canadian asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities.

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, HDFS and the Company remained in compliance with all of the then existing covenants.

Cautionary Statements

The Company intends that certain matters discussed in this report are “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified as such by reference to this footnote or because the context of the statement will include words such as the Company “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “plans,” “may,” “will,” “estimates,” “is on-track” or words of similar meaning. Similarly, statements that describe or refer to future expectations, future plans, strategies, objectives, outlooks, targets, guidance, commitments or goals are also forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, unfavorably or favorably, from those anticipated as of the date of this report. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described below. Shareholders, potential investors, and other readers are urged to consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are only made as of the date of this report, and the Company disclaims any obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

The Company's ability to meet the targets and expectations noted above depends upon, among other factors, the Company's ability to (i) execute its business plans and strategies, including the elements of the More Roads to Harley-Davidson accelerated plan for growth that the Company disclosed on July 30, 2018 and updated September 24, 2019, and strengthen its existing business while enabling growth, (ii) manage and predict the impact that new or adjusted tariffs may have on the Company's ability to sell products internationally, and the cost of raw materials and components, (iii) execute its strategy of growing ridership, globally, (iv) successfully carry out its global manufacturing and assembly operations, (v) accurately analyze, predict and react to changing market conditions and successfully adjust to shifting global consumer needs and interests, (vi) develop and maintain a productive relationship with Zhejiang Qianjiang Motorcycle Co., Ltd. and launch related products in a timely manner, (vii) develop and introduce products, services and experiences on a timely basis that the market accepts, that enable the Company to generate desired sales levels and that provide the desired financial returns, (viii) perform in a manner that enables the Company to benefit from market opportunities while competing against existing and new competitors, (ix) realize expectations concerning market demand for electric models, which will depend in part on the building of necessary infrastructure, (x) prevent, detect, and remediate any issues with its motorcycles or any issues associated with the manufacturing processes to avoid delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, regulatory agency investigations, increased warranty costs or litigation and adverse effects on its reputation and brand strength, and carry out any product programs or recalls within expected costs and timing, (xi) manage supply chain issues, including quality issues and any unexpected interruptions or price increases caused by raw material shortages or natural disasters, (xii) manage the impact that prices for and supply of used motorcycles may have on its business, including on retail sales of new motorcycles, (xiii) reduce other costs to offset costs of the More Roads to Harley-Davidson plan and redirect capital without adversely affecting its existing business, (xiv) balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with consumer demand, (xv) manage risks that arise through expanding international manufacturing, operations and sales, (xvi) manage through changes in general economic and business conditions, including changing capital, credit and retail markets, and the changing political environment, (xvii) successfully determine, implement on a timely basis, and maintain a manner in which to sell motorcycles in the European Union, China, and ASEAN countries that does not subject its motorcycles to incremental tariffs, (xviii) accurately estimate and adjust to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, (xix) continue to develop the capabilities of its distributors and dealers, effectively implement changes relating to its dealers and distribution methods and manage the risks that its independent dealers may have difficulty obtaining capital and managing through changing economic conditions and consumer demand, (xx) retain and attract talented employees, (xxi) prevent a cybersecurity breach involving consumer, employee, dealer, supplier, or Company data and respond to evolving regulatory requirements regarding data security, (xxii) manage the credit quality, the loan servicing and collection activities, and the recovery rates of HDFS' loan portfolio, (xxiii) adjust to tax reform, healthcare inflation and reform and pension reform, and successfully estimate the impact of any such 

39

reform on the Company’s business, (xxiv) manage through the effects inconsistent and unpredictable weather patterns may have on retail sales of motorcycles, (xxv) implement and manage enterprise-wide information technology systems, including systems at its manufacturing facilities, (xxvi) manage changes and prepare for requirements in legislative and regulatory environments for its products, services and operations, (xxvii) manage its exposure to product liability claims and commercial or contractual disputes, (xxviii) successfully access the capital and/or credit markets on terms (including interest rates) that are acceptable to the Company and within its expectations, (xxix) manage its Thailand corporate and manufacturing operations in a manner that allows the Company to avail itself of preferential free trade agreements and duty rates, and sufficiently lower prices of its motorcycles in certain markets, (xxx) continue to manage the relationships and agreements that the Company has with its labor unions to help drive long-term competitiveness, (xxxi) accurately predict the margins of its Motorcycles and Related Products segment in light of, among other things, tariffs, the cost associated with the More Roads to Harley-Davidson plan, the Company's Manufacturing Optimization Plan, and the Company's complex global supply chain, and (xxxii) successfully launch a smaller displacement motorcycle in India. 

The Company’s operations and/or demand for its products could be adversely impacted by work stoppages, strikes, natural causes, widespread infectious disease, terrorism, or other factors. Other factors are described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this report. Many of these risk factors are impacted by the current changing capital, credit and retail markets and the Company's ability to manage through inconsistent economic conditions.

The Company’s ability to sell its motorcycles and related products and services and to meet its financial expectations also depends on the ability of the Company’s independent dealers to sell its motorcycles and related products and services to retail customers. The Company depends on the capability and financial capacity of its independent dealers to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand for the motorcycles and related products and services they purchase from the Company. In addition, the Company’s independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulties in operating their businesses and selling Harley-Davidson motorcycles and related products and services as a result of weather, economic conditions or other factors.

In recent years, HDFS has experienced historically low levels of retail credit losses, but there is no assurance that this will continue. The Company believes that HDFS' retail credit losses may increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and HDFS' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals to sub-prime borrowers, as well as actions that the Company has taken and could take that impact motorcycle values.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk