Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. To reduce such risks, the Company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. All hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risk. Further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements.

The Company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country’s local currency. As a result, the Company’s earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. The Company’s most significant foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to the Euro, Australian dollar, Japanese yen, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Indian rupee, and Pound sterling. The Company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of certain currencies' fluctuations on earnings. The foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the Company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for U.S. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the notional U.S. dollar value of outstanding Euro, Australian dollar, Japanese yen, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Indian rupee, and Pound sterling foreign currency contracts was $654.5 million and $443.0 million, respectively. The Company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $65.5 million and $39.9 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The Company's earnings are affected by changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motorcycles. The Company uses derivative financial instruments on a limited basis to hedge the prices of certain commodities. At December 31, 2019, the notional value of these instruments was $8.9 million and the fair value was a net liability of $0.1 million. As of December 31, 2018, the notional value of these instruments was $6.1 million and the fair value was a net liability of $0.5 million. The potential decrease in fair value of these contracts from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would not be significant.

40

HDFS’ earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. HDFS’ interest rate sensitive financial instruments include finance receivables, debt and interest rate derivatives. HDFS utilizes interest rate swaps and caps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its debt. As of December 31, 2019, HDFS had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $900.0 million and interest rate caps outstanding with a notional value of $376.0 million. As of December 31, 2018, HDFS had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $900.0 million and no outstanding interest rate caps. HDFS estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of the interest rate swap and cap agreements of $10.2 million and $8.3 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

HDFS has currency exposure related to financing in currencies other than the functional currency. HDFS utilizes cross-currency swaps to mitigate the effect of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. At December 31, 2019, HDFS' exposure relates to the Euro. As of December 31, 2019, HDFS had a cross-currency swap outstanding with a notional value of $660.8 million. As of December 31, 2018, HDFS had no cross-currency swaps outstanding. HDFS estimates that a 10% adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rate would result in a $4.6 million decrease in the fair value of the swap agreement.

HDFS has short-term commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities that is subject to changes in interest rates. HDFS estimates that a one-percentage point increase in the interest rate on commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities would increase Financial Services interest expense in 2020 by approximately $10.4 million. This analysis does not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, HDFS may take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis does not account for these impacts.

41

Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data