ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons. See the factors set forth under the heading “Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of Part 1 of this Annual Report and in Item 1(A) under the heading “Risk Factors.” The following discussion is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the more detailed information contained in Item 6 “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. For discussion related to the results of operations and changes in financial condition for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2019. 

Overview 

We are a leading global operator of regulated exchanges, clearing houses and listings venues, and a provider of data services for commodity, financial, fixed income and equity markets. We operate regulated marketplaces for listing, trading and clearing a broad array of derivatives contracts and securities across major asset classes, including energy and agricultural commodities, metals, interest rates, equities, ETFs, credit derivatives, digital assets, bonds and currencies, and also offer mortgage and technology services. In addition, we offer comprehensive data services to support the trading, investment, risk management and connectivity needs of customers around the world and across asset classes.

Our exchanges include derivative exchanges in the U.S., U.K., EU, Canada and Singapore, and cash equities, equity options and bond trading venues in the U.S. We also operate OTC markets for physical energy, fixed income and CDS trade execution. To serve global derivatives markets, we operate clearing houses in the U.S., U.K., EU, Canada and Singapore. We offer a range of data services, globally, for financial and commodity markets, including pricing and reference data, exchange data, analytics, feeds, index services, desktops and connectivity solutions. Through our markets, clearing houses, listings and data services, we provide comprehensive solutions for our customers to manage risk and raise capital through liquid markets, benchmark products, access to capital markets and related services. Our business is conducted as two reportable business segments, our Trading and Clearing segment and our Data and Listings segment, and the majority of our identifiable assets are located in the U.S. and U.K. 

45

Recent Developments 

Acquisition of Simplifile

On June 12, 2019, we acquired Simplifile for $338 million in cash. The cash consideration was gross of $12 million in cash held by Simplifile on the date of acquisition. Simplifile offers an array of mortgage services, primarily serving as an electronic liaison between lenders, settlement agents and county recording offices, streamlining the local recording of residential mortgage transactions. Simplifile has a presence in over half of U.S. counties, representing over 80% of the U.S. population. The transaction expands the ICE Mortgage Services portfolio, which includes MERS.

Launch of Bakkt Bitcoin Futures Contract

On September 23, 2019, the Bakkt Bitcoin Futures contract launched and on December 9, 2019, options on Bitcoin futures launched. These contracts are traded on ICE Futures U.S. and cleared through ICE Clear U.S. Bakkt was approved by the New York State Department of Financial Services to take custody of digital assets through Bakkt Trust Company, LLC, a qualified custodian. Bakkt Trust takes custody of bitcoin for physically-delivered futures, creating the first fully regulated marketplace to transact physically-delivered digital asset futures. In connection with the launch of the Bakkt Bitcoin Futures contract, Bakkt contributed $35 million to the ICE Clear U.S. guaranty fund in September 2019, solely applicable to any losses associated with a default in Bitcoin contracts and other digital asset contracts that ICE Clear U.S. might clear in the future. Since launch, 2019 volume in physically-delivered Bakkt Bitcoin Daily and Monthly Futures was 85,413 contracts with open interest of 505 contracts at December 31, 2019. Bakkt Bitcoin options volume was 68 contracts in 2019 with open interest of 51 contracts at December 31, 2019.

Launch of ETF Hub

On October 21, 2019, we launched ICE ETF Hub, a new platform designed to bring efficiencies and standardization to the ETF primary trading market, where shares of ETFs are created and redeemed. ICE ETF Hub aims to offer a standardized, automated process for assembling and placing creation and redemption baskets. ICE ETF Hub plans to include ICE Data Services’ pricing, reference data and analytics, connectivity and feeds, as well as connections to ICE Bonds, which provides fixed income execution protocols for asset classes including municipals, corporates, treasuries, agencies and certificates of deposit.

Agreement to Acquire Bridge2 Solutions

On February 5, 2020, we agreed to acquire Bridge2 Solutions, a leading provider of loyalty solutions for merchants and consumers, contingent on completion of Hart-Scott-Rodino review. Following the completion of the transaction, Bakkt intends to acquire Bridge2 Solutions from ICE. Bridge2 Solutions enables some of the world’s leading brands to engage customers and drive loyalty. It powers incentive and employee perk programs for companies across a wide spectrum of industries. 

46

Consolidated Financial Highlights

The following summarizes our results and significant changes in our consolidated financial performance for the periods presented (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The adjusted figures exclude items that are not reflective of our ongoing core operations and business performance. Adjusted net income attributable to ICE and adjusted diluted earnings per share attributable to ICE common stockholders are presented net of taxes. These adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 

47

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In connection with our acquisition of MERS, we recorded a $110 million gain in other income during 2018. In connection with Cetip’s merger with BM&FBOVESPA S.A., now B3, we recognized a $167 million net realized investment gain in other income/(expense), net in 2017. We also recognized a net gain of $110 million in connection with our divestiture of Trayport in other income/(expense), net in 2017.

•The 2019 effective tax rate is higher than the 2018 effective tax rate primarily due to the 2018 discrete tax benefits from the acquisition of MERS and the divestiture of Trayport exceeding the net increased tax benefits recorded in 2019 from certain international tax provisions under the U.S. Federal Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA.

•Excluding the 2017 deferred tax benefit from the U.S. tax law changes, the 2018 effective tax rate is lower than the 2017 effective tax rate due to the TCJA, which reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, tax benefits from our acquisition of MERS, our divestiture of Trayport and deferred tax benefits from the U.S. tax rate reduction resulting from changes in estimates. 

Business Environment and Market Trends

Our business environment has been characterized by:

•globalization of marketplaces, customers and competitors; 

•commodity, interest rate and financial markets uncertainty;

•growing demand for data to inform customers' risk management and investment decisions;

•evolving, increasing and disparate regulation across multiple jurisdictions;

•price volatility increasing customers' demand for risk management services;

•increasing focus on capital and cost efficiencies;

•customers' preference to manage risk in markets demonstrating the greatest depth of liquidity and product diversity;

•the evolution of existing products and new product innovation to serve emerging customer needs and changing industry agreements;

•rising demand for speed, data, data capacity and connectivity by market participants, necessitating increased investment in technology; and

•consolidation and increasing competition among global markets for trading, clearing and listings.

Recent changes with regard to global financial reform have emphasized the importance of transparent markets, centralized clearing and access to data, all of which are important aspects of our product offering. However, some of the proposed rules have yet to be implemented and some rules that have already been partially implemented are being reconsidered. In addition, some of the global regulations have not been fully harmonized and several non-U.S. regulations are inconsistent with U.S. rules. As the evolution continues, legislative and regulatory actions may change the way we conduct our business and may create uncertainty for market participants, which could affect trading volumes or demand for market data. As a result, it is difficult to predict all of the effects that the legislation and its implementing regulations will have on us. As discussed more fully in Item 1 “- Business - Regulation” included in this Annual Report, Brexit, the implementation of MiFID II and other regulations may result in operational, regulatory and/or business risk.

We have diversified our business so that we are not dependent on volatility or trading activity in any one asset class. In addition, we have increased our portion of non-transaction and clearing revenues from 34% in 2014 to 51% in 2019. This non-transaction revenue includes data services and listings.

We have invested, and continue to invest significant resources, in our proprietary ICE Global Network and cybersecurity protections to minimize the potential impact of a wide-scale cyber interruption, system outages or global regulatory drive to 

48

move critical infrastructure and/or sensitive financial transactions away from the public Internet. We believe that our current and historic investments in this space position us well competitively to accommodate increased costs of compliance, assurance, or incident response, however, trends in nationalism and data privacy could result in requirements that necessitate increases in staffing or the introduction of local data collection, and such requirements could undermine our synergistic centralized service model. Further, a prolonged and impactful cyber-attack on any of our market participants could drive the industry away from electronification and reduce the market advantages we have realized through automation.

Many of the data products we sell and services we provide are required for our clients’ business operations regardless of market volatility or shifts in business profitability levels. We anticipate that there will continue to be growth in the financial information services sector driven by a number of global trends, including the following: 

•increasing global regulatory demands; 

•greater use of fair value accounting standards and reliance on independent valuations; 

•greater emphasis on risk management; 

•market fragmentation driven by regulatory changes; 

•the move to passive investing and indexation; 

•ongoing growth in the size and diversity of financial markets; 

•increased automation of fixed income and other less automated markets; 

•the development of new data products; 

•the demand for greater data capacity and connectivity; 

•new entrants; and 

•increasing demand for outsourced services by financial institutions.

We continue to focus on our strategy to grow each of our revenue streams, and prudently manage expenses, in order to mitigate these uncertainties and to build on our growth opportunities by leveraging our proprietary data, clearing and markets.

Segment Results 

Our business is conducted through two reportable business segments: 

•Trading and Clearing, which comprises our transaction-based execution and clearing businesses; and

•Data and Listings, which comprises our subscription-based data services and securities listings businesses. 

While revenues are recorded specifically in the segment in which they are earned or to which they relate, a significant portion of our operating expenses are not solely related to a specific segment because the expenses serve functions that are necessary for the operation of both segments. We use a pro-rata revenue approach as the allocation method for the expenses that do not relate solely to one segment. Further, we did not allocate expenses to specific revenue streams within these segments since such an allocation is not reasonably possible. Our two segments do not engage in intersegment transactions. For details on trends in recent prior year periods, refer to our 2018 and 2017 Annual Reports on Form 10-K.

49

Trading and Clearing Segment

The following presents selected statements of income data for our Trading and Clearing segment (dollars in millions):

50

(1) The adjusted numbers in the charts above are calculated by excluding items that are not reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. As a result, these adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Transaction and Clearing Revenues

Our transaction and clearing revenues are reported on a net basis, except for the NYSE transaction-based expenses discussed below, and consist of fees collected from our derivatives, fixed income, cash equities and equity options trading and derivatives clearing. Rates per-contract, or RPC, are driven by the number of contracts or securities traded and the fees charged per contract, net of certain rebates. Our per-contract transaction and clearing revenues will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, market conditions, transaction and clearing volume, product mix, pricing, applicable revenue sharing and market making agreements, and new product introductions. Because transaction and clearing revenues are generally assessed on a per-contract basis, revenues and profitability fluctuate with changes in contract volume and due to product mix. 

In 2019 and 2018, 19% and 20%, respectively, of our Trading and Clearing segment revenues, less transaction-based expenses, were billed in pounds sterling or euros. Due to the fluctuations of the pound sterling and euro compared to the 

51

U.S. dollar, our Trading and Clearing segment revenues, less transaction-based expenses, were lower by $25 million in 2019 from 2018.

Our transaction and clearing revenues are presented net of rebates. We recorded rebates of $860 million and $844 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. We offer rebates in certain of our markets primarily to support market liquidity and trading volume by providing qualified participants in those markets a discount to the applicable commission rate. Such rebates are calculated based on volumes traded. The increase in the rebates is due primarily to increased volumes in products with higher rates per contract, an increase in the number of rebate programs offered and an increase in the number of participants within our energy futures and options programs. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

–Other financial futures and options volume, which includes our MSCI®, FTSE® and NYSE FANG+ equity index products, decreased 1% and revenue increased 10% in 2019 from 2018. Other financial futures and options volume decreased due to lower equity market volatility than in the prior year while revenues increased due to strong volumes in our MSCI® complex. Other financial futures and options revenues were $136 million and $124 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Fixed Income and Credit: Fixed income and credit includes revenues from ICE Mortgage Services, ICE Bonds and CDS execution and clearing. Fixed income transaction revenues in 2019 include an increase of $133 million due to acquisitions made in these businesses in late 2018 and 2019.

CDS clearing revenues were $132 million and $139 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The notional value of CDS cleared was $14.7 trillion and $16.4 trillion in 2019 and 2018, respectively. CDS clearing revenues decreased in 2019 from 2018 due to lower market volatility, partially offset by record buy-side participation at our U.S. CDS clearing house, ICE Clear Credit, in terms of number of participants and single name notional cleared. 

52

•OTC and Other Transactions: OTC and other transactions include revenues from our OTC energy business and other trade confirmation services.

Other Revenues

Other revenues primarily include interest income on certain clearing margin deposits, regulatory penalties and fines, fees for use of our facilities, regulatory fees charged to member organizations of our U.S. securities exchanges, designated market maker service fees, technology development fees, exchange membership fees and agricultural grading and certification fees. The increase in other revenues in 2019 from 2018 is primarily due to increased interest income earned on certain clearing margin deposits reflecting higher balances and increased interest rates, as well as due to the acquisition of Simplifile.

Selected Operating Data

The following charts and tables present trading activity in our futures and options markets by commodity type based on the total number of contracts traded, as well as futures and options rate per contract (in millions, except for percentages and rate per contract amounts): 

Volume and Rate per Contract

53

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Open interest is the aggregate number of contracts (long or short) that clearing members hold either for their own account or on behalf of their clients. Open interest refers to the total number of contracts that are currently “open,” – in other words, contracts that have been traded but not yet liquidated by either an offsetting trade, exercise, expiration or assignment. Open interest is also a measure of the future activity remaining to be closed out in terms of the number of contracts that members and their clients continue to hold in the particular contract and by the number of contracts held for each contract month listed by the exchange. The following charts and table present our year-end open interest for our futures and options contracts (in thousands, except for percentages): 

Open Interest

54

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following charts and tables present selected cash and equity options trading data. All trading volume below is presented as average net daily trading volume, or ADV, and is single counted:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Handled volume represents the total number of shares of equity securities, ETFs and crossing session activity internally matched on our exchanges or routed to and executed on an external market center. Matched volume represents the total number of shares of equity securities, ETFs and crossing session activity executed on our exchanges.

55

Transaction-Based Expenses 

Our equities and equity options markets pay fees to the SEC pursuant to Section 31 of the Exchange Act. Section 31 fees are recorded on a gross basis as a component of transaction and clearing fee revenue. These Section 31 fees are assessed to recover the government’s costs of supervising and regulating the securities markets and professionals and are subject to change. We, in turn, collect corresponding activity assessment fees from member organizations clearing or settling trades on the equities and options exchanges, and recognize these amounts in our transaction and clearing revenues when invoiced. The activity assessment fees are designed to equal the Section 31 fees. As a result, activity assessment fees and the corresponding Section 31 fees do not have an impact on our net income, although the timing of payment by us may vary from collections. Section 31 fees were $379 million and $357 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The fees we collect are included in cash at the time of receipt and we remit the amounts to the SEC semi-annually as required. The total amount is included in accrued liabilities and was $138 million as of December 31, 2019.

We make liquidity payments to cash and options trading customers, as well as routing charges made to other exchanges which are included in transaction-based expenses. We incur routing charges when we do not have the best bid or offer in the market for a security that a customer is trying to buy or sell on one of our securities exchanges. In that case, we route the customer’s order to the external market center that displays the best bid or offer. The external market center charges us a fee per share (denominated in tenths of a cent per share) for routing to its system. We record routing charges on a gross basis as a component of transaction and clearing fee revenue. Cash liquidity payments, routing and clearing fees were $966 million and $940 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Operating Expenses, Operating Income and Operating Margin

The following chart summarizes our Trading and Clearing segment's operating expenses, operating income and operating margin (dollars in millions). See “- Consolidated Operating Expenses” below for a discussion of the significant changes in our operating expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The adjusted figures exclude items that are not reflective of our ongoing core operations and business performance. These adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 

56

Data and Listings Segment

The following charts and table present our selected statements of income data for our Data and Listings segment (dollars in millions): 

(1) The adjusted numbers in the charts above are calculated by excluding items that are not reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. As a result, these adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below.

57

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Data and Listings segment represents largely subscription-based, or recurring, revenues from data services and listings services offered across our trading and clearing businesses and ICE Data Services. Through ICE Data Services, we generate revenues from a range of global financial and commodity markets, including pricing and reference data, exchange data, analytics, feeds, index services, desktops and connectivity solutions. Through NYSE, NYSE American and NYSE Arca, we generate listings revenue related to the provision of listings services for public companies and ETFs, and related corporate actions for listed companies.

In 2019 and 2018, 7% and 8%, respectively, of our Data and Listings segment revenues were billed in pounds sterling or euros (all relating to our data services revenues). As the pound sterling or euro exchange rate changes, the U.S. equivalent of revenues denominated in foreign currencies changes accordingly. Due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to the pound sterling and euro during 2019, our data services revenues were lower by $9 million in 2019 than in 2018.

Data Services Revenues

Our data services revenues are primarily subscription-based and increased 5% in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to the strong retention rate of existing customers, the addition of new customers, increased purchases by existing customers and increases in pricing of our products.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Annual Subscription Value, or ASV, represents, at a point in time, the data services revenues subscribed for the succeeding 12 months. ASV does not include new sales, contract terminations or price changes that may occur during that 12-month period. ASV also does not include certain data services revenue streams that are not subscription-based. Revenue from ASV businesses has historically represented approximately 90% of our data revenues. Thus, while it is an indicative forward-looking metric, it does not provide a growth forecast of the next 12 months of data services revenues. 

As of December 31, 2019, ASV was $2.014 billion, which increased 5.5% compared to the ASV as of December 31, 2018. This does not adjust for year-over-year foreign exchange fluctuations or impacts of acquisitions.

58

Listings Revenues

Listings revenues in our securities markets arise from fees applicable to companies listed on our cash equities exchanges– original listing fees and annual listing fees. Original listing fees consist of two components: initial listing fees and fees related to corporate actions. Initial listing fees, subject to a minimum and maximum amount, are based on the number of shares that a company initially lists. All listings fees are billed upfront and the identified performance obligations are satisfied over time. Revenue related to the investor relations performance obligation is recognized ratably over the period these services are provided, with the remaining revenue recognized ratably over time as customers continue to list on our exchanges. 

In addition, we earn corporate actions-related listing fees in connection with actions involving the issuance of new shares, such as stock splits, rights issues and sales of additional securities, as well as mergers and acquisitions. Listings fees related to other corporate actions are considered contract modifications of our listing contracts and are recognized ratably over time as customers continue to list on our exchanges.

In 2019, NYSE and NYSE American raised the most capital globally with approximately $112 billion raised in IPOs and follow-on offerings from over 300 transactions.

Operating Expenses, Operating Income and Operating Margin

The following chart summarizes our Data and Listings segment's operating expenses, operating income and operating margin (dollars in millions). See “- Consolidated Operating Expenses” below for a discussion of the significant changes in our operating expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The adjusted figures exclude items that are not reflective of our ongoing core operations and business performance. These adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 

59

Consolidated Operating Expenses 

The following presents our consolidated operating expenses (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The majority of our operating expenses do not vary directly with changes in our volume and revenues, except for certain technology and communication expenses, including data acquisition costs, licensing and other fee-related arrangements and a portion of our compensation expense that is tied directly to our data sales or overall financial performance.

60

We expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute terms in future periods in connection with the growth of our business, and to vary from year-to-year based on the type and level of our acquisitions, our integrations and other investments.

In 2019 and 2018, 12% and 13%, respectively, of our operating expenses were incurred in pounds sterling or euros. Due to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar compared to the pound sterling and euro, our consolidated operating expenses were $14 million lower in 2019 than in 2018. See Item 7(A) “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” below for additional information.

Compensation and Benefits Expenses 

Compensation and benefits expense is our most significant operating expense and includes non-capitalized employee wages, bonuses, non-cash or stock compensation, certain severance costs, benefits and employer taxes. The bonus component of our compensation and benefits expense is based on both our financial performance and individual employee performance. The performance-based restricted stock compensation expense is also based on our financial performance. Therefore, our compensation and benefits expense will vary year-to-year based on our financial performance and fluctuations in our number of employees. The below chart summarizes the significant drivers of our compensation and benefits expense results for the periods presented (dollars in millions, except employee headcount).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Employee headcount and compensation and benefits expenses increased in 2019 from 2018 primarily due the acquisitions of Simplifile in 2019 and CHX Holdings, Inc., the parent company of the Chicago Stock Exchange, or CHX, TMC Bonds and MERS in 2018 and the 2018 launch of Bakkt. Employee headcount also increased due to new employees in our ICE India office, who had previously been our contractors, during the three months ended December 31, 2019. These new businesses resulted in additional compensation and benefits expense of $57 million in 2019 from 2018. Stock-based compensation expenses in the table above relate to employee stock option and restricted stock awards.

Professional Services Expenses 

Professional services expense includes fees for consulting services received on strategic and technology initiatives, temporary labor, as well as regulatory, legal and accounting fees, and may fluctuate as a result of changes in consulting and technology services, temporary labor, and regulatory, accounting and legal proceedings. 

Professional services expenses decreased in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to lower consulting service fees on regulatory, accounting, technology and reference data services. This was partially offset by higher legal fees associated with regulatory matters, litigation matters and consulting work related to strategic initiatives.

Acquisition-Related Transaction and Integration Costs

In 2019, we incurred $2 million in acquisition-related transaction and integration costs, primarily related to professional services costs from our 2019 acquisition of Simplifile and other strategic opportunities.

In 2018, we incurred $34 million in acquisition-related transaction and integration costs, primarily relating to employee terminations and lease terminations in connection with our integrations of Interactive Data, Securities Evaluations and Credit Market Analysis, professional services costs from our 2018 acquisitions, and a $5 million banker success fee in connection with our acquisition of TMC Bonds. The integration of Interactive Data was completed by June 30, 2018.

We expect to continue to explore and pursue various potential acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our competitive position and support our growth. As a result, we may incur acquisition-related transaction costs in future periods.

61

Technology and Communication Expenses 

Technology support services consist of costs for running our wholly-owned data centers, hosting costs paid to third-party data centers, and maintenance of our computer hardware and software required to support our technology and cybersecurity. These costs are driven by system capacity, functionality and redundancy requirements. Communication expenses consist of costs for network connections for our electronic platforms and telecommunications costs.

Technology and communications expense also includes fees paid for access to external market data, licensing and other fee agreement expenses, which may be impacted by growth in electronic contract volume, our capacity requirements, changes in the number of telecommunications hubs and connections with customers to access our electronic platforms directly. Beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we have reflected amounts owed under certain third-party revenue share arrangements as technology and communication operating expenses rather than as had been previously recorded net within transaction and clearing revenues, which resulted in an increase in technology and communications expense of $37 million in 2019 from 2018. 

Total technology and communications expenses also increased in 2019 from 2018, due to $16 million in costs related to our acquisitions of CHX, TMC Bonds and MERS in 2018 and Simplifile in 2019, and our launch of Bakkt. The increase in 2019 was offset by additional costs related to data migrations, hardware support upgrades and cybersecurity investments of $17 million in 2018.

Rent and Occupancy Expenses

Rent and occupancy expense relates to leased and owned property and includes rent, maintenance, real estate taxes, utilities and other related costs. We have significant operations located in and around Atlanta, New York and London with smaller offices located throughout the world. See Item 2 “- Properties” above for additional information regarding our leased and owned property.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

Selling, general and administrative expenses include marketing, advertising, public relations, insurance, bank service charges, dues and subscriptions, travel and entertainment, non-income taxes and other general and administrative costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2019 from 2018, primarily due to $5 million in costs related to our 2018 acquisitions of CHX, TMC Bonds, and MERS, our 2019 acquisition of Simplifile and our launch of Bakkt, and increased travel and entertainment and other general and administrative costs, partially offset by the release of non-income tax reserves. 

Depreciation and Amortization Expenses 

Depreciation and amortization expense results from depreciation of long-lived assets such as buildings, leasehold improvements, aircraft, hardware and networking equipment, software, furniture, fixtures and equipment over their estimated useful lives. This expense includes amortization of intangible assets obtained in our acquisitions of businesses, as well as on various licensing agreements, over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets subject to amortization consist primarily of customer relationships, trading products with finite lives and technology. This expense also includes amortization of internally-developed and purchased software over its estimated useful life. 

We recorded amortization expenses on intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisitions, as well as on other intangible assets, of $311 million and $289 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Amortization expense increased in 2019 from 2018, as a result of CHX, TMC Bonds and MERS intangible assets, and the $31 million impairment loss on exchange registration intangible assets on ICE Futures Singapore, partially offset by the 2018 $4 million impairment loss on exchange registration intangible assets related to our closure of ICE Futures Canada and ICE Clear Canada.

We recorded depreciation expenses on our fixed assets of $320 million and $293 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in 2019 over 2018 was primarily due to depreciation resulting from increased software development and networking equipment.

62

Consolidated Non-Operating Income (Expense) 

Income and expenses incurred through activities outside of our core operations are considered non-operating. The following tables present our non-operating income (expenses) (dollars in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Income

Interest income increased in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to a rise in short-term interest rates on various investments, as well as higher cash and restricted cash balances at ICE Clear Europe related to our guaranty fund contributions and increased regulatory capital.

Interest Expense

Interest expense increased in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to an increase in the principal and coupon of our bond refinancing in August 2018, as well as a rise in short-term interest rates impacting our Commercial Paper Program. See “- Debt” below. 

Other income, net

In connection with our equity investment in Euroclear, we recognized dividend income of $19 million and $15 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, which is included in other income.

In September 2019, we recorded promissory note impairment charges of $16 million on work performed by the original plan processor on the CAT. Due to delays and failures in implementation and functionality by the original plan processor, as well as recently-published proposals by the SEC for an amended timeline and implementation structure, we believe the risk that execution venues are not reimbursed has increased, resulting in this impairment.

Our equity method investments include the Options Clearing Corporation, or OCC, and prior to purchasing the remaining minority stake in MERS in October 2018, our majority investment in MERS. We recognized $62 million and $46 million in equity income as other income related to these investments during 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

Prior to October 2018, we owned a majority stake in MERS and treated it as an equity method investment because we did not have the ability to control its operations. On October 3, 2018, we completed the purchase of all remaining interests of MERS and recognized a $110 million gain on our initial investment value as other income.

We own a 40% interest in the OCC, which is regulated by the SEC and the CFTC. On February 13, 2019, the SEC disapproved the OCC capital plan that was established in 2015. Following the SEC disapproval, the OCC also announced that it will not be providing a refund to clearing members or declaring a dividend to shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2018, which resulted in higher reported OCC 2018 net income than we had estimated. During 2019, we recognized $62 million of equity earnings as our share of estimated OCC profits, including $19 million related to 2018 earnings which was recognized during 2019. Refer to Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report for additional details on our OCC investment.

In connection with our adoption of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2017-07, Compensation Retirement Benefits: Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, or ASU 2017-07, we are recognizing the other components of net benefit cost of our defined benefit plans in the income statement as non-operating income on a full retrospective basis. The combined net periodic expense of these plans was $4 million and $8 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

We incurred foreign currency transaction losses of $5 million and $2 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. This was primarily attributable to the fluctuations of the pound sterling and euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains 

63

and losses are recorded in other income, net, when the settlement of foreign currency assets, liabilities and payables that occur in non-functional currencies due to the increase or decrease in the period-end foreign currency exchange rates between periods. See Item 7A “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” included elsewhere in this Annual Report for more information on these items.

Non-controlling Interest

For consolidated subsidiaries in which our ownership is less than 100%, and for which we have control over the assets, liabilities and management of the entity, the outside stockholders’ interests are shown as non-controlling interests. As of December 31, 2019, our non-controlling interests include those related to the non-ICE limited partners in our CDS clearing subsidiaries and the redeemable non-controlling interests of the non-ICE partners in Bakkt.

During September 2018, we purchased a 3.2% interest in a non-ICE limited partner of our CDS clearing subsidiaries, and the remaining non-ICE limited partners hold a 26.7% ownership interest as of December 31, 2019. Refer to Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report.

In December 2018, Bakkt Holdings, LLC, or Bakkt, was capitalized with $183 million in initial funding with ICE as the majority owner, along with a group of other minority investors. We hold a call option over these interests subject to certain terms. Similarly, the non-ICE partners in Bakkt hold a put option to require us to repurchase their interests subject to certain terms. These minority interests are reflected as redeemable non-controlling interests in temporary equity within our consolidated balance sheet.

Consolidated Income Tax Provision 

Consolidated income tax expense was $521 million and $500 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The change in consolidated income tax expense between years is primarily due to the tax impact of changes in our pre-tax income and the changes in our effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate was 21% and 20% in 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

The 2019 effective tax rate is higher than the 2018 effective tax rate primarily due to the 2018 discrete tax benefits from the acquisition of MERS and the divestiture of Trayport exceeding the net increased tax benefits recorded in 2019 from certain international tax provisions under the TCJA. 

On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed into law. The TCJA enacted broad changes to the U.S. federal income tax code, including reducing the federal corporation income tax rate from 35% to 21%. The reductions in U.S. corporate income tax rates resulted in deferred tax benefits in the period of enactment. The impact of the deferred tax benefits lowered the 2017 effective tax rate by 30% and resulted in a deferred tax benefit of $764 million.

See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements and related notes, which are included in this Annual Report, for additional information on these tax items.

64

Quarterly Results of Operations 

The following quarterly unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income data has been prepared on substantially the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements and includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair presentation of our consolidated results of operations for the quarters presented. The historical results for any quarter do not necessarily indicate the results expected for any future period. This unaudited condensed consolidated quarterly data should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report. The following table sets forth quarterly consolidated statements of income data (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 31, 2018 includes a $110 million gain in connection with our acquisition of MERS.

65

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Below are charts that reflect our capital allocation. The acquisition and integration costs in the chart below includes cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash received for divestitures, cash paid for equity investments, cash paid for non-controlling interest and redeemable non-controlling interest, and acquisition-related transaction and integration costs, in each year.

We have financed our operations, growth and cash needs primarily through income from operations and borrowings under our various debt facilities. Our principal capital requirements have been to fund capital expenditures, working capital, strategic acquisitions and investments, stock repurchases, dividends and the development of our technology platforms. We believe that our cash on hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt, but we may also need to incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities in the future. See “- Future Capital Requirements” below. 

See “- Recent Developments” above for a discussion of the acquisitions that we made during 2019. These acquisitions were funded from borrowing under our Commercial Paper Program along with cash flows from operations.

Our Commercial Paper Program enables us to borrow efficiently at reasonable short-term interest rates and provides us with the flexibility to de-lever using our strong annual cash flows from operating activities whenever our leverage becomes elevated as a result of investment or acquisition activities. We had net issuances of $360 million under our Commercial Paper Program during 2019.

Upon maturity of our commercial paper and to the extent old issuances are not repaid by cash on hand, we are exposed to the rollover risk of not being able to issue new commercial paper. To mitigate this risk, we maintain an undrawn back-stop bank revolving credit facility for an aggregate amount which meets or exceeds the amount issued under our Commercial Paper Program at any time. If we were not able to issue new commercial paper, we have the option of drawing on the back-stop revolving facility. However, electing to do so would result in higher interest expense. For a discussion of our Commercial Paper Program and other indebtedness, see “- Debt” below.

66

Consolidated cash and cash equivalents were $841 million and $724 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We had $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in short-term and long-term restricted cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

As of December 31, 2019, the amount of unrestricted cash held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries was $459 million. Due to U.S. tax reform, the majority of our foreign earnings since January 1, 2018 have been subject to immediate U.S. income taxation, and consequently, the existing non-U.S. unrestricted cash balance can be distributed to the U.S. in the future with no material additional income tax consequences.

Our cash and cash equivalents and financial investments are managed as a global treasury portfolio of non-speculative financial instruments that are readily convertible into cash, such as overnight deposits, term deposits, money market funds, mutual funds for treasury investments, short duration fixed income investments and other money market instruments, thus ensuring high liquidity of financial assets. We may invest a portion of our cash in excess of short-term operating needs in investment-grade marketable debt securities, including government or government-sponsored agencies and corporate debt securities.

Repurchases of our common stock may be made from time to time on the open market, through established trading plans, in privately-negotiated transactions or otherwise, in accordance with all applicable securities laws, rules and regulations. In 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 17.4 million shares and 16.3 million shares, respectively, of our outstanding common stock at a cost of $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. In 2019, we repurchased 16.1 million shares of our outstanding common stock at a cost of $1.4 billion under our Rule 10b5-1 trading plan and 1.3 million shares at a cost of $100 million on the open market. Shares repurchased are held in treasury stock.

From time to time, we enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans, as authorized by our Board of Directors, to govern some or all of the repurchases of our shares of common stock. The timing and extent of future repurchases that are not made pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan will be at our discretion and will depend upon many conditions. In making a determination regarding any stock repurchases, management considers multiple factors, including overall stock market conditions, our common stock price performance, the remaining amount authorized for repurchases by our Board of Directors, the potential impact of a stock repurchase program on our corporate debt ratings, our expected free cash flow and working capital needs, our current and future planned strategic growth initiatives, and other potential uses of our cash and capital resources.

In September 2018, our Board of Directors approved an aggregate of $2.0 billion for future repurchases of our common stock with no fixed expiration date that became effective January 1, 2019. In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved an aggregate of $2.4 billion for future repurchases of our common stock with no fixed expiration date that became effective January 1, 2020. The $2.4 billion replaced the previous amount approved by the Board of Directors. We expect this authorization to provide us with capacity for buybacks over six quarters and flexibility to act opportunistically. We expect funding for any share repurchases to come from our operating cash flow or borrowings under our Commercial Paper Program or our debt facilities.

We may discontinue stock repurchases at any time and may amend or terminate a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan at any time. The approval of our Board of Directors for the share repurchases does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors may increase or decrease the amount of capacity we have for repurchases from time to time.

67

Cash Flow 

The following table presents the major components of net changes in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash and cash equivalents (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities 

Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and the effects of changes in working capital.

The $126 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 from 2018, is primarily a result of an increase in net income, excluding certain non-cash adjustments such as the 2018 non-cash gain on MERS and the $31 million impairment loss on the ICE Futures Singapore exchange registration intangible asset in 2019. The remaining increase is due to fluctuations in our working capital and the timing of various payments such as transaction-related expenses and taxes.

Investing Activities 

Consolidated net cash provided by (used in) investing activities in 2019 and 2018 relates to cash paid for acquisitions, purchases of investments, proceeds from term deposits, a return of capital related to our investment in OCC, proceeds from investments related to MERS and changes in capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. 

We paid cash for acquisitions, net of the cash of the companies acquired, of $352 million and $1.2 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively, primarily relating to the Simplifile acquisition during 2019 and the BondPoint, TMC Bonds and MERS acquisitions during 2018. We made cash investments of $306 million during 2018 related to Euroclear and MERS. 

In 2019, we had a $60 million return of capital related to our equity method investment in the OCC. Refer to Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report for additional details on our OCC investment.

We had capital expenditures of $153 million and $134 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and we had capitalized software development expenditures of $152 million and $146 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The capital expenditures primarily relate to hardware and software purchases to continue the development and expansion of our electronic platforms, data services and clearing houses and leasehold improvements associated with the new and renovated office spaces in Atlanta, New York, London and India. The software development expenditures primarily relate to the continued development and expansion of our electronic trading platforms, data services and clearing houses.

Financing Activities 

Consolidated net cash used in financing activities in 2019 primarily relates to $1.5 billion in repurchases of common stock, $360 million in net borrowings under our Commercial Paper Program, $621 million in dividend payments to stockholders and $65 million in cash payments related to treasury shares received for restricted stock tax payments and stock options exercises.

Consolidated net cash used in financing activities in 2018 primarily relates to $1.2 billion in repurchases of common stock, $600 million in repayments of our October 2018 Senior Notes, $555 million in dividend payments to our stockholders, $283 million in net repayments under our Commercial Paper Program, and $80 million in cash payments related to treasury shares received for restricted stock tax payments and stock options exercises, partially offset by $2.2 billion in net proceeds from our Senior Notes issued in 2018 (the September 2023, 2028 and 2048 Senior Notes). See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report.

Debt 

As of December 31, 2019, we had $7.8 billion in outstanding debt, consisting of $6.5 billion of senior notes and $1.3 billion under the U.S. dollar commercial paper program, or the Commercial Paper Program. The commercial paper notes had 

68

original maturities ranging from two to 87 days as of December 31, 2019, with a weighted average interest rate of 1.84% per annum, and a weighted average remaining maturity of 22 days. Commercial paper notes of $951 million with original maturities ranging from two to 77 days were outstanding as of December 31, 2018, with a weighted average interest rate of 2.48% per annum, and a weighted average remaining maturity of 12 days.

We currently have a $3.4 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Credit Facility, pursuant to a credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as primary administrative agent, issuing lender and swing-line lender, Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent, backup administrative agent and swing-line lender, and the lenders party thereto. As of December 31, 2019, of the $3.4 billion that is currently available for borrowing under the Credit Facility, $1.3 billion is required to back-stop the amount outstanding under our Commercial Paper Program and $160 million is required to support certain broker dealer subsidiary commitments. The amount required to backstop the amounts outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program will fluctuate as we increase or decrease our commercial paper borrowings. The remaining $1.9 billion is available for working capital and general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, acting as a back-stop to future increases in the amounts outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program.

For additional details of our debt instruments, refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report.

Future Capital Requirements 

Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of growth across our Trading and Clearing and Data and Listings segments, strategic plans and acquisitions, available sources for financing activities, required and discretionary technology and clearing initiatives, regulatory requirements, the timing and introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products, the geographic mix of our business and potential stock repurchases. 

We currently expect to incur capital expenditures (including operational and real estate capital expenditures) and to incur software development costs that are eligible for capitalization ranging in the aggregate between $290 million and $320 million in 2020, which we believe will support the enhancement of our technology, business integration and the continued growth of our businesses. 

In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved an aggregate of $2.4 billion for future repurchases of our common stock with no fixed expiration date that became effective on January 1, 2020. We expect this authorization to provide us with capacity for buybacks over six quarters and flexibility to act opportunistically. Refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report, for additional details on our stock repurchase plans. 

Our Board of Directors has adopted a quarterly dividend policy providing that dividends will be approved quarterly by the board or its Audit Committee taking into account factors such as our evolving business model, prevailing business conditions, our current and future planned strategic growth initiatives and our financial results and capital requirements, without a predetermined net income payout ratio. During 2019, we paid cash dividends of $1.10 per share of our common stock in the aggregate, including quarterly dividends of $0.275 per share, for an aggregate payout of $621 million, which includes the payment of dividend equivalents on unvested employee restricted stock units. Refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, for details on the amounts of our quarterly dividend payouts for the last three years. For the first quarter of 2020, we announced a $0.30 per share dividend payable on March 31, 2020 to stockholders of record as of March 17, 2020.

Other than the facilities for the ICE Clearing Houses, our Credit Facility and our Commercial Paper Program are currently the only significant agreements or arrangements that we have for liquidity and capital resources with third parties. See Notes 10 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements where discussed further. In the event of any strategic acquisitions, mergers or investments, or if we are required to raise capital for any reason or desire to return capital to our stockholders, we may incur additional debt, issue additional equity to raise necessary funds, repurchase additional shares of our common stock or pay a dividend. However, we cannot provide assurance that such financing or transactions will be available or successful, or that the terms of such financing or transactions will be favorable to us. See “-Risk Factors" and Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report.

Non-GAAP Measures 

We use certain financial measures internally to evaluate our performance and make financial and operational decisions that are presented in a manner that adjusts from their equivalent GAAP measures or that supplement the information provided by our GAAP measures. We use these adjusted results because we believe they more clearly highlight trends in our business 

69

that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on GAAP financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our core operating performance. 

We use these measures in communicating certain aspects of our results and performance, including in this Annual Report, and believe that these measures, when viewed in conjunction with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, can provide investors with greater transparency and a greater understanding of factors affecting our financial condition and results of operations than GAAP measures alone. In addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for making period-to-period comparisons of results because the adjustments to GAAP are not reflective of our core business performance. 

These financial measures are not presented in accordance with, or as an alternative to, GAAP financial measures and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. We encourage investors to review the GAAP financial measures included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements, to aid in their analysis and understanding of our performance and in making comparisons.

The table below outlines our adjusted operating expenses, adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income attributable to ICE common stockholders and adjusted earnings per share, which are non-GAAP measures that are calculated by making adjustments for items we view as not reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. These measures, including the adjustments and their related income tax effect and other tax adjustments (in millions, except for percentages and per share amounts), are as follows:

70

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Acquisition-related transaction costs are included as part of our core business expenses, except for those that are directly related to the announcement, closing, financing or termination of a transaction. However, we adjust for the acquisition-related transaction and integration costs relating to Interactive Data given the magnitude of the $5.6 billion purchase price of this acquisition. The integration of Interactive Data was completed by June 2018. Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles are included in non-GAAP adjustments as excluding these non-cash expenses provides greater clarity regarding our financial strength and stability of cash operating results. 

71

We include the 2019 impairment of exchange registration intangible assets on ICE Futures Singapore as a non-GAAP adjustment. This impairment is not based on our core business operations, but rather was a result of the estimated fair value of an acquired intangible asset falling below its carrying value. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report. 

We include the 2019 promissory note impairment charges on work performed by the original plan processor on the CAT as a non-GAAP adjustment. This is included as a non-GAAP adjustment as this is not considered a part of our core business operations. See additional discussion on the CAT, above, in Item 1(A) "-Risk Factors" in this Annual Report.

In addition, we also include the following items as non-GAAP adjustments, as each of these are not considered a part of our core business operations:

•2018: the gain recognized on our initial majority investment in MERS in connection with our acquisition of 100% of the remaining MERS interests;

•2018: the impairment loss on exchange registration intangible assets and employee severance costs related to the closure of ICE Futures Canada and ICE Clear Canada; 

•2017: the net gain on the divestiture of Trayport, and in 2018, a subsequent adjustment to reduce of the gain on the divestiture;

•2017: the realized investment gain and the foreign exchange loss and transaction expenses on the sale of our investment in Cetip;

•2017: accruals relating to investigations and inquiries; and

•2017: the NYSE Governance Services net impairment loss on its divestiture.

The tax items in non-GAAP adjustments are either the tax impacts of the pre-tax non-GAAP adjustments or tax items as described below that are not in the normal course of business and are not indicative of our core business performance. The following tax-related items are included as non-GAAP adjustments:

•The income tax effects relating to all non-GAAP adjustments;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Deferred tax benefits of $11 million and $764 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively, resulting from changes in estimates as a result of the enactment of the TCJA which reduced the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%; and

•Other tax adjustments of $3 million in 2019 for additional audit settlement payments primarily related to pre-acquisition tax matters in conjunction with our acquisition of NYSE in 2013; and other tax adjustments in 2018 including a $17 million tax benefit on the sale of Trayport, partially offset by an audit settlement for a pre-acquisition period in connection with our acquisition of NYSE in 2013.

For additional information on these items, refer to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and “- Recent Developments,” “- Consolidated Operating Expenses”, “- Consolidated Non-Operating Income (Expenses)” and “-Consolidated Income Tax Provision” above.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

As described in Notes 3 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report, certain clearing house collateral and Bakkt custodial assets are reported off-balance sheet. We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. 

72

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

The following presents our contractual obligations (which we intend to fund from existing cash as well as cash flow from operations) and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2019 (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Purchase obligations include our estimate of the minimum outstanding obligations under agreements to purchase goods or services that we believe are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable at any time without penalty.

We have excluded from the contractual obligations and commercial commitments listed above $65.0 billion in cash margin deposits, guaranty funds and delivery contracts payable. Clearing members of our clearing houses are required to deposit original margin and variation margin and to make deposits to a guaranty fund. The cash deposits made to these margin accounts and to the guaranty fund are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet as current assets with corresponding current liabilities to the clearing members that deposited them. ICE NGX administers the physical delivery of energy trading contracts. It has an equal and offsetting claim to and from its respective participants on opposite sides of the physically-settled contract, each of which is reflected as a delivery contract receivable with an offsetting delivery contract payable. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our clearing houses and the margin deposits, guaranty funds and delivery contracts payable. 

We have also excluded unrecognized tax benefits, or UTBs. As of December 31, 2019, our cumulative UTBs were $103 million, and interest and penalties related to UTBs were $33 million. We are under examination by various tax authorities. We are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the periods of cash settlement because it is not possible to reasonably predict the amount of tax, interest and penalties, if any, that might be assessed by a tax authority or the timing of an assessment or payment. It is also not possible to reasonably predict whether or not the applicable statutes of limitations might expire without us being examined by any particular tax authority. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our UTBs. 

As of December 31, 2019, we, through NYSE, have net obligations of $150 million related to our pension and other benefit programs. The date of payment under these net obligations cannot be determined and have been excluded from the table above. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our pension and other benefit programs. 

In addition, the future funding of the implementation and operation of the CAT is ultimately expected to be provided by both the SROs and broker-dealers. To date, however, funding has been provided solely by the SROs, and future funding is expected to be repaid if industry member fees are approved by the SEC and subsequently collected by industry members. See "- Non-GAAP Measures" above. 

New and Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 

Refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for information on the new and recently adopted accounting pronouncements that are applicable to us.

Critical Accounting Policies 

We have identified the policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. The impact of, and any associated risks related to, these policies on our business operations is discussed throughout “- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. 

73

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with these accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 

We base our estimates and judgments on our historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances when we make these estimates and judgments and re-evaluate them on a periodic basis. Based on these factors, we make estimates and judgments about, among other things, the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from market prices or other independent sources and about the recognition and characterization of our revenues and expenses. The values and results based on these estimates and judgments could differ significantly under different assumptions or conditions and could change materially in the future. 

We believe that the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and could materially increase or decrease our reported results, assets and liabilities. 

Goodwill and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets 

Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions are recorded at their estimated fair values. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired company over the fair value of its identifiable net assets, including identified intangible assets. We recognize specifically identifiable intangibles, such as customer relationships, trademarks, technology, trading products, data, exchange registrations, trade names and licenses when a specific right or contract is acquired. Our determination of the fair value of the intangible assets and whether or not these assets may be impaired following their acquisition requires us to apply significant judgments and make significant estimates and assumptions regarding future cash flows. If we change our strategy or if market conditions shift, our judgments and estimates may change, which may result in adjustments to recorded asset balances. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives whereas goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not. 

In performing the allocation of the acquisitions' purchase price to assets and liabilities, we consider, among other factors, the intended use of the acquired assets, analysis of past financial performance and estimates of future performance of the acquired business. At the acquisition date, a preliminary allocation of the purchase price is recorded based upon a preliminary valuation performed with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist. We continue to review and assess our estimates, assumptions and valuation methodologies during the measurement period provided by GAAP, which ends as soon as we receive the information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date or we learn that more information is not obtainable, which usually does not exceed one year from the date of acquisition. Accordingly, these estimates and assumptions are subject to change, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Estimation uncertainty may exist due to the sensitivity of the respective fair value to underlying assumptions about the future performance of an acquired business in our discounted cash flow models. Significant assumptions typically include revenue growth rates and expense synergies that form the basis of the forecasted results and the discount rate.

Our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually in our fiscal fourth quarter or more frequently if conditions exist that indicate that the value may be impaired. We test our goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, and we have identified four reporting units: our Futures reporting unit, our Data and Listings reporting unit, our Cash Equities reporting unit, and our Fixed Income and Credit reporting unit. These impairment evaluations are performed by comparing the carrying value of the goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles to its estimated fair value. 

Goodwill impairment testing consists of a two-step methodology. The initial step requires us to determine the fair value of each reporting unit and compare it to the carrying value, including goodwill and other intangible assets, of such reporting unit. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no impairment loss is recognized and the second step, which is a calculation of the impairment, is not performed. However, if the carrying value exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded equal to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. For annual goodwill impairment testing, we have the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If we conclude that this is the case, we must perform the two-step methodology described above. Otherwise, no further testing is required. For annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment testing, we also have the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than its carrying amount. For our goodwill impairment testing, we have elected to bypass the qualitative assessment and apply the quantitative approach. For our testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets, we apply qualitative and quantitative approaches.

74

Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. We have historically determined the fair value of our reporting units based on various valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis and a multiple of earnings approach. In assessing whether goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired, we must make estimates and assumptions regarding future cash flows, long-term growth rates of our business, operating margins, discount rates, weighted average cost of capital and other factors to determine the fair value of our assets. These estimates and assumptions require management’s judgment, and changes to these estimates and assumptions, as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions, could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or impairment. During 2019, we recorded an impairment charge of $31 million on the remaining value of exchange registration intangible assets on ICE Futures Singapore as a result of a decrease in fair value determined during our annual impairment testing.

We are also required to evaluate other finite-lived intangible assets for impairment by first determining whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present, then an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by these long-lived assets is compared to the carrying value of those assets to determine if the asset is recoverable. If an asset is not recoverable, the loss is measured as the difference between fair value and carrying value of the impaired asset. Fair value of these assets is based on various valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis. 

Income Taxes 

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S., U.K. and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate. The determination of our provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities requires the use of significant judgment, estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. We recognize a current tax liability or tax asset for the estimated taxes payable or refundable on tax returns for the current year. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of our assets and liabilities. We establish valuation allowances if we believe that it is more likely than not that some or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using current enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to reverse.

SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, provided guidance for companies that had not completed their accounting for the income tax effects of the TCJA in the period of enactment, allowing for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. As of December 31, 2018, we had completed our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the TCJA. We reaffirmed our position that we were not subject to transition tax under the TCJA as of December 31, 2017. In addition, we concluded that the $764 million of deferred tax benefit recorded in the 2017 financial statements was a reasonable estimate of the TCJA’s impact on our deferred tax and no further adjustments are necessary. 

The FASB Staff also provided additional guidance to address the accounting for the effects of the provisions related to the taxation of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income noting that companies should make an accounting policy election to recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse in future years or to include the tax expense in the year it is incurred. We have completed our analysis of the effects of these provisions and have made a policy election to recognize such taxes as current period expenses when incurred.

We do not recognize a tax benefit unless we conclude that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, we recognize a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that, in our judgment, is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized. We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions as income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income.

We operate within multiple domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions taken and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We record accruals for the estimated outcomes of these audits, and the accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. At any point in time, many tax years are subject to or in the process of being audited by various taxing authorities. To the extent our estimates of settlements change or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. Our income tax expense includes changes in our estimated liability for exposures associated with our various tax filing positions. Determining the income tax expense for these potential assessments requires management to make assumptions that are subject to factors such as proposed assessments by tax authorities, changes in facts and circumstances, issuance of new regulations, and resolution of tax audits. 

75

We believe the judgments and estimates discussed above are reasonable. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. 

ITEM 7 (A). QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

As a result of our operating and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and credit risk. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are regularly reviewed by the appropriate management and supervisory bodies. 

Interest Rate Risk 

We have exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relating to our cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term restricted cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments and indebtedness. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term restricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments were $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of which $282 million and $275 million, respectively, were denominated in pounds sterling, euros or Canadian dollars, and the remaining amounts are denominated in U.S. dollars. We do not use our investment portfolio for trading or other speculative purposes. A hypothetical 100 basis point decrease in short-term interest rates would decrease annual pre-tax earnings by $15 million as of December 31, 2019, assuming no change in the amount or composition of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term restricted cash and cash equivalents. 

As of December 31, 2019, we had $7.8 billion in outstanding debt, of which $6.5 billion relates to our senior notes, which bear interest at fixed interest rates. The remaining amount outstanding of $1.3 billion relates to our Commercial Paper Program, which bears interest at fluctuating rates and, therefore, subjects us to interest rate risk, and a subsidiary line of credit. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates relating to the amounts outstanding under our Commercial Paper Program as of December 31, 2019 would decrease annual pre-tax earnings by $13 million, assuming no change in the volume or composition of our outstanding indebtedness and no hedging activity. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. 

The interest rates on our Commercial Paper Program are currently evaluated based upon current maturities and market conditions. The weighted average interest rate on our Commercial Paper Program decreased from 2.48% as of December 31, 2018 to 1.84% as of December 31, 2019. The decrease in the Commercial Paper Program weighted average interest rate was primarily due to the decisions by the U.S. Federal Reserve to decrease the federal funds short-term interest rate by 25 basis points in each of July, September and October of 2019. The effective interest rate of commercial paper issuances will continue to fluctuate based on the movement in short-term interest rates along with shifts in supply and demand within the commercial paper market. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

As an international business, we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We may experience gains or losses from foreign currency transactions in the future given that a significant part of our assets and liabilities are recorded in pounds sterling, Canadian dollars or euros, and a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are recorded in pounds sterling or euros. Certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the local functional currency of such subsidiaries. Our exposure to foreign denominated earnings in 2019 and 2018 is presented by primary foreign currency in the following table (dollars in millions, except exchange rates): 

76

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents the impact of currency fluctuation for the year compared to the same period in the prior year.

We have a significant part of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses recorded in pounds sterling or euros. In 2019 and 2018, 13% and 14%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses, were denominated in pounds sterling or euros, and 12% and 13%, respectively, of our consolidated operating expenses were denominated in pounds sterling or euros. As the pound sterling or euro exchange rate changes, the U.S. equivalent of revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies changes accordingly. 

Foreign currency transaction risk related to the settlement of foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities and payables occurs through our operations, which are received in or paid in pounds sterling, Canadian dollars, or euros, due to the increase or decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates between periods. We incurred foreign currency transaction losses of $5 million and $2 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. The foreign currency transaction losses were primarily attributable to the fluctuations of the pound sterling and euro relative to the U.S. dollar. A 10% adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates as of December 31, 2019, assuming no change in the composition of the foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities and payables and assuming no hedging activity, would result in a foreign currency loss of $2 million.

We entered into foreign currency hedging transactions during 2019 and 2018 as economic hedges to help mitigate a portion of our foreign exchange risk exposure and may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future to help mitigate our foreign exchange risk exposure. Although we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future, these hedging arrangements may not be effective, particularly in the event of imprecise forecasts of the levels of our non-U.S. denominated assets and liabilities. 

We have foreign currency translation risk equal to our net investment in our foreign subsidiaries. The financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using a current rate of exchange, with gains or losses included in the cumulative translation adjustment account, a component of equity. Our exposure to the net investment in foreign currencies is presented by primary foreign currencies in the table below (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign currency translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within our balance sheet. See the table below for the portion of equity attributable to foreign currency translation adjustments 

77

as well as the activity by year included within our statement of other comprehensive income. The impact of the foreign currency exchange rate differences in the table below were primarily driven by fluctuations of the pound sterling as compared to the U.S. dollar which were 1.3260, 1.2756 and 1.3510 as of December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The future impact on our business relating to the U.K. leaving the EU and the corresponding regulatory changes are uncertain at this time, including future impacts on currency exchange rates.

Credit Risk 

We are exposed to credit risk in our operations in the event of a counterparty default. We limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously selecting the counterparties with which we make our investments, monitoring them on an ongoing basis and executing agreements to protect our interests. 

Clearing House Cash Deposit Risks

The ICE Clearing Houses hold material amounts of clearing member cash and cash equivalent deposits which are held or invested primarily to provide security of capital while minimizing credit, market and liquidity risks. Refer to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on the ICE Clearing Houses' cash and cash equivalent deposits, which were $65.0 billion as of December 31, 2019. While we seek to achieve a reasonable rate of return which may generate interest income for our clearing members, we are primarily concerned with preservation of capital and managing the risks associated with these deposits. As the ICE Clearing Houses may pass on interest revenues (minus costs) to the clearing members, this could include negative or reduced yield due to market conditions. The following is a summary of the risks associated with these deposits and how these risks are mitigated:

•Credit Risk: When a clearing house has the ability to hold cash collateral at a central bank, the clearing house utilizes its access to the central bank system to minimize credit risk exposures. Credit risk is managed by using exposure limits depending on the credit profile of the counterparty as well as the nature and maturity of transactions. Our investment objective is to invest in securities that preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. We seek to substantially mitigate the credit risk associated with investments by placing them with governments, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties.

An ongoing review is performed to evaluate changes in the financial status of counterparties. In addition to the intrinsic creditworthiness of counterparties, our policies require diversification of counterparties (banks, financial institutions, bond issuers and funds) so as to avoid a concentration of risk.

•Liquidity Risk: Liquidity risk is the risk a clearing house may not be able to meet its payment obligations in the right currency, in the right place and at the right time. To mitigate this risk, the clearing houses monitor liquidity requirements closely and maintain funds and assets in a manner which minimizes the risk of loss or delay in the access by the clearing house to such funds and assets. For example, holding funds with a central bank where possible or making only short term investments such as overnight reverse repurchase agreements serves to reduce liquidity risks.

•Interest Rate Risk: Interest rate risk is the risk that interest rates rise and cause the value of securities we hold or invest in to decline. If we were required to sell securities prior to maturity, and interest rates had risen, the sale might be made at a loss relative to the carrying value. Our clearing houses seek to manage this risk by making short term investments. For example, where possible and in accordance with regulatory requirements, the clearing houses invest cash pursuant to overnight reverse repurchase agreements or term reverse repurchase agreements with short dated 

78

maturities. In addition, the clearing house investment guidelines allow for direct purchases of high quality sovereign debt (for example, U.S. Treasury securities) and supranational debt instruments (Euro cash deposits only) with short dated maturities. 

•Security Issuer Risk: Security issuer risk is the risk that an issuer of a security defaults on the payment when the security matures or debt is serviced. This risk is mitigated by limiting allowable investments under the reverse repurchase agreements to high quality sovereign or government agency debt and limiting any direct investments to high quality sovereign debt instruments. 

•Investment Counterparty Risk: Investment counterparty risk is the risk that a reverse repurchase agreement counterparty might become insolvent and, thus, fail to meet its obligations to our clearing houses. We mitigate this risk by only engaging in transactions with high credit quality counterparties and by limiting the acceptable collateral to securities of high quality issuers. When engaging in reverse repurchase agreements, our clearing houses take delivery of the securities underlying the reverse repurchase arrangement in custody accounts under clearing house control. Additionally, the securities purchased subject to reverse repurchase have a market value greater than the reverse repurchase amount. The typical haircut for high quality sovereign debt is 2% of the reverse repurchase amount which provides additional excess collateral. Thus, in the event that a reverse repurchase counterparty defaults on its obligation to repurchase the underlying reverse repurchase securities, our clearing house will have possession of a security with a value potentially greater than the counterparty’s obligation.

The ICE Clearing Houses may use third-party investment advisors who make investments subject to the guidelines provided by each clearing house. Such advisors do not hold clearing member cash or cash equivalent deposits or the underlying investments. Clearing house property is held in custody accounts under clearing house control with credit worthy custodians including JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., Citibank N.A., BNY Mellon, BMO Harris N.A. and Euroclear Bank Brussels (for non-U.S. dollar deposits). The ICE Clearing Houses employ (or may employ) multiple investment advisors and custodians to ensure that in the event a single advisor or custodian is unable to fulfill its role, additional advisors or custodians are available as alternatives. 

•Cross-Currency Margin Deposit Risk: Each of the ICE Clearing Houses may permit posting of cross-currency collateral to satisfy margin requirements (for example, accepting margin deposits denominated in U.S. dollars to secure a Euro margin obligation). The ICE Clearing Houses mitigate the risk of a currency value exposure by applying a “haircut” to the currency posted as margin at a level viewed as sufficient to provide financial protection during periods of currency volatility. Cross-currency balances are marked-to-market on a daily basis. Should the currency posted to satisfy margin requirements decline in value, the clearing member is required to increase its margin deposit on a same-day basis.

Impact of Inflation 

We have not been adversely affected by inflation as technological advances and competition have generally caused prices for the hardware and software that we use for our electronic platforms to remain constant. In the event of inflation, we believe that we will be able to pass on any price increases to our participants, as the prices that we charge are not governed by long-term contracts.

79

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA