ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

We are a leading innovator of sensory experiences that move the world. Our creative capabilities, global footprint, regulatory and technological know-how provide us a competitive advantage in meeting the demands of our global, regional and local customers around the world. The 2018 acquisition of Frutarom solidified our position as an industry leader across an expanded portfolio of products, resulting in a broader customer base across small, mid-sized and large companies and an expansion to new adjacencies that provides a platform for significant cross-selling opportunities.

Our product portfolio covers taste, scent and complementary adjacent products, and we have over 128,000 individual products that are provided to customers in approximately 200 countries. Our global manufacturing footprint allows us to optimize our supply chain and support our global and regional customers. As of December 31, 2019, we had 104 manufacturing facilities and 82 creative centers and application laboratories located in 44 different countries. We currently anticipate that we will continue to optimize our global facilities footprint as we seek opportunities to efficiently and cost-effectively deliver value to our global and regional customers.

Sales in 2019 were approximately $5.1 billion which, management believes, makes us the second largest company in the taste, scent, nutrition and specialty ingredient industry. During the past few years, we have diversified our customer base and leveraged our technical expertise to significantly expand our global small and mid-sized customer base through acquisitions, including, Frutarom, and the development of Tastepoint. Based on 2019 sales, of our approximately 38,000 customers, approximately 35% are global consumer products companies and approximately 65% are small and mid-sized companies. During 2019, our 25 largest customers accounted for 38% of our sales. In 2019, no customer accounted for more than 10% of sales.

Our business is geographically diverse, with sales in the U.S. representing approximately 20% of sales in 2019. No other country represents more than 6% of sales. We believe that more significant future growth potential for taste and scent, and for our business, exists in the emerging markets (which we classify as all markets except North America, Japan, Australia, and Western, Southern and Northern Europe). As a result, we intend to continue to build on our multi-decade experience in the emerging markets. As our customers seek to grow their businesses in emerging markets, we provide them the ability to leverage our long-standing international presence and extensive market knowledge to help drive their brands in these markets.

For the periods presented in this Form 10-K, our business was organized in three segments: Taste, Scent and Frutarom. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, we are operating our business across two segments, Taste and Scent. As part of this new operating model, nearly all of the former Frutarom business segment was combined with the Taste segment. The financial results presented in this Form 10-K reflect the Taste, Scent and legacy Frutarom business segments prior to the realignment.

 Vision 2021 and Frutarom Integration Initiative

Following the acquisition of Frutarom, we developed a new strategy, Vision 2021, targeting accelerated revenue and profitability growth. Vision 2021 has four "pillars":

•Unlocking growth opportunities - capitalizing on our expanded product portfolio, broader customer base and extensive geographic presence as well as cross-selling and integrated solutions

•Driving innovation - investing in high-growth and high-return platforms to continue to drive our research and development pipeline and accelerate long-term growth

•Managing the Portfolio - focusing on optimizing our portfolio to maximize value creation

•Accelerating Business Transformation - successfully integrating Frutarom while delivering on synergy targets and achieving productivity gains across the business base.

At the same time, we have been executing on our Frutarom integration plan to build our go-to-market business model by replicating the Tastepoint blueprint across certain markets, clarify roles and responsibilities and, thereby, accelerate decision-making through a series of organizational changes primarily aimed at driving cost synergies in the manufacturing and creative networks, procurement and overhead functions.

 3

Pending Transaction with Nutrition & Biosciences, Inc.

On December 15, 2019, the Company entered into definitive agreements with DuPont de Nemours, Inc. (“DuPont”), including an Agreement and Plan of Merger, pursuant to which DuPont will transfer its nutrition and biosciences business (the “N&B Business”) to Nutrition & Biosciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of DuPont (“N&B”), and N&B will merge with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of IFF in exchange for a number of shares of IFF common stock, par value $0.125 per share (“IFF Common Stock”) (collectively, the “DuPont N&B Transaction”). In connection with the transaction, DuPont will receive a one-time $7.3 billion special cash payment (the “Special Cash Payment”), subject to certain adjustments. As a result of the DuPont N&B Transaction, holders of DuPont’s common stock will own approximately 55.4% of the outstanding shares of IFF on a fully diluted basis. We believe that the combination of IFF and the N&B Business will create a global leader in high-value ingredients and solutions in the global Food & Beverage, Home & Personal Care and Health & Wellness markets. We expect that the companies' complementary product portfolios will give the combined company leadership positions across key Taste, Texture, Scent, Nutrition, Enzymes, Cultures, Soy Proteins and Probiotics categories.

Completion of the DuPont N&B Transaction is subject to various closing conditions, including, among other things, (1) approval by IFF’s shareholders of the issuance of IFF Common Stock in connection with the transaction; (2) the effectiveness of the registration statements to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Merger Agreement; and (3) the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and obtaining certain other consents, authorizations, orders or approvals from governmental authorities. We expect that the transaction will close in early 2021.

Our Product Offerings

Taste

As a leading creator of flavor offerings, we help our customers deliver on the promise of delicious and healthy foods and drinks that appeal to consumers. While we are a global leader, our Taste business is more regional in nature, with different formulas that reflect local taste preferences. Consequently, we manage our Taste business geographically, creating products in our regional creative centers which allow us to satisfy local taste preferences, while also helping to ensure regulatory compliance and production standards. We develop thousands of different flavors and taste offerings for our customers, most of which are tailor-made. We continually develop new formulas to meet changing consumer preferences and customer needs.

Our Taste business comprises a diversified portfolio across flavor compounds, savory solutions, inclusions and nutrition and specialty ingredients. The savory solutions compounds, inclusions and nutrition and specialty ingredients products were included in the legacy Frutarom businesses during 2019 and we will begin reporting them under the Taste business segment in 2020.

Flavor Compounds. Our flavor compounds provide unique flavors that are ultimately used by our customers in savory products (soups, sauces, meat, fish, poultry, snacks, etc.), beverages (juice drinks, carbonated or flavored beverages, spirits, etc.), sweets (bakery products, candy, cereal, chewing gum, etc.), and dairy products (yogurt, ice cream, cheese, etc.).

Savory Solutions. Savory solutions include marinades or powder blends of flavors, natural colors, seasonings, functional ingredients and natural anti-oxidants that are primarily designed for the meat and fish industry.

Inclusions. Inclusions provide taste and texture by, among other things, combining flavorings with fruit, vegetables, and other natural ingredients for a wide range of food products, such as health snacks, baked goods, cereals, pastries, ice cream and other dairy products.

Nutrition and Specialty Ingredients. Our nutrition and specialty ingredients primarily consist of natural health ingredients, natural food protection, natural colors and flavor ingredients. Natural health ingredients include natural ingredients derived from plants and herbs, which provide, or are perceived as providing, health benefits. These ingredients are used in dietary supplements, functional food, infant and elderly nutrition, cosmetics, personal care and other over-the-counter products. Natural food protection ingredients consist of natural antioxidants and anti-microbials used for natural food preservation and shelf life extension to beverages, cosmetic and healthcare products, and pet food and feed additives. These ingredients reduce the oxidative deterioration and/or microbiology load that leads to rancidity or loss of flavor, color, and nutritional value. Natural colors comprise a wide array of natural colors and fruit and vegetable concentrates for food, beverage, and cosmetics.

Flavor Ingredients. The flavor ingredients market includes natural flavor extracts, specialty botanical extracts, distillates, essential oils, citrus products, aroma chemicals, and natural gums and resins. Such ingredients are used for food, beverage, and flavors and are often sold directly to food and beverage manufacturers who use them in producing consumer products. 

 4

Scent

Our global Scent business creates fragrance compounds and fragrance ingredients that are integral elements in the world’s finest perfumes and best-known household and personal care products. We believe our unique portfolio of natural and synthetic ingredients, global footprint, innovative technologies and know-how, deep consumer insight and customer intimacy make us a market leader in scent.

Our Scent business is a vertically integrated operation, originating in our research facilities with the development of natural, synthetic and proprietary molecules and innovative delivery systems, progressing to our creative centers, application laboratories and consumer insight teams where our perfumers partner with our customers to create unique fragrance compounds for use in a variety of end-use products. Finally, we produce these products in our manufacturing facilities in a consistent, high-quality and cost-effective manner. We also produce cosmetic active and functional ingredients for use in cosmetics. By providing our fragrance development teams with an extensive portfolio of innovative, high-quality and effective ingredients to support their creativity, we are able to provide our customers with a unique identity for their brands. These ingredients or fragrance compounds can then be combined with our innovative delivery systems which are key differentiators in the growth of our consumer fragrance portfolio. In September 2019, we opened our new Home & Fabric Care Innovation Center in Holmdel, New Jersey, a 60,000 square-foot research and development hub, to further drive innovation in our home care and fabric care categories, including digital olfaction technology, immersive virtual reality scent experiences, and the latest generation of encapsulation technology.

Fragrance Compounds. Fragrance compounds are unique and proprietary combinations of multiple ingredients that are ultimately used by our customers in their consumer goods. Our creative and commercial teams within fragrance compounds are organized into two broad categories, fine fragrances and consumer fragrances.

Our fine fragrances focus on perfumes and colognes. Our scientists and perfumers collaborate to develop new molecules, new natural extractions, and innovative processes to create unique, inspiring fragrances. We have created some of the industry-leading fine fragrance classics as well as cutting-edge niche fragrances, as evidenced by the number of top sellers and award winners.

Our consumer fragrances include five end-use categories of products: 

•Fabric Care, including laundry detergents, fabric softeners and specialty laundry products;

•Home Care, including household cleaners, dishwashing detergents and air fresheners;

•Personal Wash, including bar soaps and shower gels;

•Hair Care, including shampoos and conditioners; and

•Toiletries, including deodorants and shaving creams.

Ingredients. Fragrance ingredients consists of natural and synthetic, of active and functional ingredients that are used internally and sold to third parties, including competitors, for use in preparation of compounds. While the principal role of our fragrance ingredients facilities is to support our fragrance compounds business, we utilize our excess manufacturing capacity to manufacture and sell certain fragrance ingredients to third parties. We believe that this business allows us to leverage our fixed costs while maintaining the security of supply for our perfumers and ultimately our customers. Fragrance ingredients available for sale to third parties include innovative ingredients that leverage our manufacturing experience as well as a limited amount of cost-competitive, commodity ingredients. Fragrance ingredients also includes our cosmetic active and functional ingredients, which provide biologists and cosmetic chemists with innovative solutions to address cosmetic challenges such as skin aging and hair protection. With approximately 1,800 separate fragrance and active and functional ingredients, plus additional botanicals and delivery systems, we believe we are a leader in the industry with the breadth of our product portfolio.

Legacy Frutarom

During 2019, our Frutarom business created and manufactured a broad suite of flavor compounds and specialty fine ingredients, largely targeting small, local and regional customers. As noted above, beginning in fiscal year 2020, our business segments have been realigned such that nearly all of the Frutarom business segment will combine with our Taste business. The financial results presented in this Form 10-K reflect the Scent, Taste and Frutarom business segments prior to the realignment.

 5

Consumer Insights, Research and Product Development Process

The markets in which we compete require constant innovation to stay ahead of the curve and to be competitive. Consumer preferences tend to drive change in our markets, and as science evolves and sustainability continues to be a key factor to customers and consumers, we must continue to strengthen our research and development platforms and adapt our capabilities to provide differentiated products to our customers.

Consumer Insights

We believe that the first step to creating an innovative and unique flavor or fragrance experience begins with gaining insight into the consumer and emerging trends. By developing a deep understanding of what consumers value and prefer through our consumer insight programs, we are better able to focus our research and development and creative efforts. 

Our consumer science, insight and marketing teams interpret trends, monitor product launches, analyze quantitative market data, and conduct numerous consumer interviews annually. Our sensory experts direct research programs exploring topics such as fragrance performance, the psychophysics of sensory perception (including chemesthetic properties such as warming, cooling, and tingling), the genetic basis for flavor and fragrance preference, and the effects of aromas on mood, performance, health, and well-being.

Based on this information, we develop innovative and proprietary programs to evaluate potential products that enable us to understand the emotional connections between a prospective product and the consumer. We believe this ability to pinpoint the likelihood of a product’s success translates into stronger brand equity, resulting in increased returns and greater market share gains for our customers as well as for IFF.

Research and Development

We consider our research and development infrastructure to be one of our key competencies and critical to our ability to provide differentiated products to our customers. We focus and invest substantial resources in the research and development of new and innovative molecules, compounds, formulas and technologies and the application of these to our customers’ products. Using the knowledge gained from our consumer insights programs, we strategically focus our resources around key research and development platforms that address or anticipate consumer needs or preferences. By aligning our capabilities and resources to these platforms, we ensure the proper support and focus for each program so that it can be further developed and eventually accepted for commercial application. 

We have been granted 415 patents in the United States since 2000 and we have developed many unique molecules and delivery systems for our customers that are used as the foundations of successful flavors and fragrances around the world.

We have traditionally conducted our principal basic research and development activities in Union Beach, New Jersey, where we employ scientists and application engineers who collaborate with our other research and development centers around the world, to support the:

•discovery of new materials;

•development of new technologies, such as delivery systems;

•creation of new compounds; and

•enhancement of existing ingredients and compounds.

We also have key basic research and development centers in Tilburg, the Netherlands, Neuilly and Grasse, France, and Nanjing, China. As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 2,300 people globally in research and development activities.

Our ingredients research program discovers molecules found in natural substances and creates new molecules that are subsequently tested for their sensorial value. To broaden our offerings of natural, innovative and unique products, we seek collaborations with research institutions and other companies throughout the world. We have established a number of such collaborations to strengthen our innovation pipeline. We may also consider acquiring companies that could provide access to new technologies.

The development of new and customized flavor and fragrance compounds is a complex process calling upon the combined knowledge of our scientists, flavorists and perfumers. Scientists from various disciplines work in project teams with flavorists and perfumers to develop flavor and fragrance compounds with consumer preferred performance characteristics. The development of new flavor and fragrance compounds requires (i) an in-depth knowledge of the flavor and fragrance 

 6

characteristics of the various ingredients we use, (ii) an understanding of how the many ingredients in a consumer product interact and (iii) the creation of controlled release and delivery systems to enhance flavor and fragrance performance. To facilitate this process, we have a scientific advisory board that provides external perspectives and independent feedback on our research and development and sustainability initiatives.

Creative Application

Through our global network of creative centers and application laboratories, we create or adapt the basic flavors or fragrances compounds that we have developed in the research and development process to commercialize for use in our customers’ consumer products. Our global creative teams consist of perfumers, fragrance evaluators and flavorists, as well as marketing, consumer science, consumer insights, and technical application experts, from a wide range of cultures and nationalities. In close partnership with our customers’ product development groups, our creative teams create the sensory experiences that our customers are seeking in order to satisfy consumer demands in each of their markets.

New flavor and fragrance development is driven by a variety of sources including requests from our customers, who are in need of specific flavors and fragrances for use in a new or modified consumer product, or as a result of internal initiatives stemming from our consumer insights program. Our product development team works in partnership with our scientists and researchers to optimize the consumer appeal and relevance of our flavors and fragrances. A collaborative process between our researchers, our product development team and our customers then follows to perfect the flavors and fragrances, so they are ready to be included in the final consumer product.

In addition to creating new flavors and fragrances, our researchers and product development teams advise customers on ways to improve their existing products by moderating or substituting current ingredients with more readily accessible or less expensive materials enhancing their yield. This often results in creating a better value proposition for our customers.

Our flavors and fragrances compound formulas are treated as trade secrets and remain our proprietary assets. Our business is not materially dependent upon any individual patent, trademark or license.

Supply Chain

We strive to provide our customers with consistent quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis by managing all aspects of the supply chain, from raw material sourcing through manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory compliance and distribution. 

Procurement

In connection with the manufacture of compounds, we use natural ingredients and, primarily in our fragrance compounds, synthetic ingredients. We purchase approximately 23,000 different raw materials from an extensive network of domestic and international suppliers and distributors. 

With the acquisition of Frutarom, we significantly increased our natural products and therefore the percentage of our ingredients that are natural or crop-related has increased. Natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products, as well as from animal products, and contain varying numbers of organic chemicals that are responsible for the fragrance or flavor of the natural product. Natural products are purchased in processed or semi-processed form. Some are used in compounds in the state in which they are obtained and others are used after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes. Our flavor products also include extracts and seasonings derived from various fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs, spices, and microbiologically-derived ingredients. 

In order to ensure our supply of raw materials, achieve favorable pricing and provide timely transparency regarding inflationary trends to our customers, we continue to be focused on: 

•purchasing under contract with fixed or formula based pricing for set time periods; 

•entering into supplier relationships to gain access to supplies and available capacity that we do not have; 

•implementing indexed pricing;

•reducing the complexity of our formulations; and 

•evaluating whether it is more profitable to buy or make an ingredient

•local country sourcing with our own procurement professionals.

 7

Manufacturing and Distribution

As of December 31, 2019, we had 186 manufacturing facilities and creative centers and application laboratories located in 44 different countries. Our major manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Great Britain, Germany, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil, Mexico, Slovenia, China, India, and Singapore. Based on the regional nature of the Taste business and the concerns regarding the fragile nature of transporting raw materials, we have typically established smaller manufacturing facilities in our local markets that are focused on local needs. Products within the Scent business are typically composed of compounds that are more stable and more transportable around the world. Consequently, we have fewer manufacturing facilities within our Scent business, which produce compounds and ingredients for global distribution. 

In connection with the integration of Frutarom, we have undertaken to optimize our global operations footprint to efficiently and cost-effectively deliver value to our global customers. As part of this effort, we expect to close approximately 35 manufacturing sites over the next two years with most of the closures targeted to occur before the end of fiscal 2020. During 2019, the Company announced the closure of 10 facilities, of which six facilities are in Europe, Africa and Middle East, one facility in each North America, Greater Asia and Latin America regions.

Our supply chain initiatives are focused on increasing capacity and investments in key technologies. Within our more mature markets, we tend to focus on consolidation and cost optimization as well as implementing new technologies. In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we develop relationships with third parties, including contract manufacturing organizations, that permit us to expand access to the technologies, capabilities and capacity that we need to better serve our customers.

Sustainability

Over the past several years, we have redefined the way we envision sustainability. Moving from the traditional “take-make-dispose” model, we have embraced the circular economy model - one that is restorative and regenerative by design, which we believe is key in safeguarding the wellbeing of our consumers, the health of our planet and the integrity of our business. 

Customers and consumers want to know if the products they are purchasing are responsibly sourced and environmentally conscious. Our sustainability vision and strategy are designed to meet these global trends, and we are committed to making real progress happen at every opportunity. Following the Frutarom acquisition, we are working on assessing our combined environmental footprint with the intent of identifying synergies, gaps and opportunities in our sustainability efforts and upgrading the legacy Frutarom operations to better align them with the legacy IFF sustainability practices. 

In line with our Vision 2021 strategy and our goal of redefining how we live in and care for the resources of our world, our sustainability goals include: 

•Reducing Our Environmental Footprint - we will seek to leverage synergies and manage our combined footprint to reduce our environmental impact.

•Strengthening Responsible Sourcing - we will continue to assess our supply chain and seek to increase sustainable sourcing across our combined supply base.

•Driving Sustainable Innovation - we will seek to embed sustainability into our products and processes.

•Embracing People and Communities - we will seek to create a culture of diversity and inclusiveness while giving back to the communities where we source and operate.

In 2019, we were recognized for our sustainability efforts with the 2019 “Industry Mover” award from SAM, a subsidiary of RobecoSAM which specializes in providing environmental, social and governance (ESG) data, benchmarks and ratings. The award acknowledges IFF’s top-scoring performance in economic, social and environmental categories. We also reconfirmed our commitment to mitigate climate change by signing the United Nation’s Business Ambition for 1.5°C: Our Only Future pledge, committing to set science-based emissions targets to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius. In addition, among other distinctions, we were named to Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies List for the second consecutive year, recognizing our exceptional environmental, social and corporate governance performance.

For more detailed information about our sustainability programs and performance, please refer to our annual sustainability report. 

 8

Governmental Regulation

We develop, produce and market our products in a number of jurisdictions around the world and are subject to federal, regional and local legislation and regulations in each of the various countries. Our products, which among other industries, are intended for use in food, beverage and pharmaceutical industries, are subject to strict quality and regulatory standards. As a result, we in turn are required to meet these strict standards which, in recent years, have become increasingly stringent and affect both existing as well as new products.

Our products and operations are subject to regulation by governmental agencies in each of the markets in which we operate. These agencies include (1) the Food and Drug Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate flavors and other ingredients in consumer products, (2) the Environmental Protection Agency and equivalent international agencies that regulate our manufacturing facilities, (3) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the working conditions in our manufacturing, research laboratories and creative centers, (4) local and international agencies that regulate trade and customs, (5) the Drug Enforcement Administration and other local or international agencies that regulate controlled chemicals that we use in our operations and (6) the Chemical Registration/Notification authorities that regulate chemicals that we use in, or transport to, the various countries in which we manufacture and/or market our products. We have seen an increase in registration and reporting requirements concerning the use of certain chemicals in a number of countries, such as Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”) regulations in the European Union, as well as similar regulations in other countries. In addition, the acquisition of Frutarom introduced business adjacencies which broaden the landscape of regulatory compliance requirements applicable to IFF.

In addition, we are subject to various rules relating to health, work safety and the environment at the local and international levels in the various countries in which we operate. Our manufacturing facilities throughout the world are subject to environmental standards relating to air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the stringency of environmental regulation and enforcement of environmental standards, and the costs of compliance have risen significantly, a trend we expect will continue in the future.

Competition

The markets for taste and scent are part of a larger market that supplies a wide variety of ingredients and compounds used in consumer products. The broader market includes functional foods and food additives, including seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food-related commodities, and fortified products as well as nutritional ingredients, supplements and active cosmetic ingredients.

The global market for taste and scent has expanded consistently, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for, and an increase in the variety of, consumer products containing flavors and fragrances.

The market for taste and scent is highly competitive. Based on annual sales, our main competitors consist of (1) the three other large global flavor and fragrance manufacturers, Givaudan, Firmenich and Symrise, (2) mid-sized companies, (3) numerous regional and local manufacturers and (4) consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances.

We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the flavors and fragrances sub-market is based on:

•our in-depth understanding of consumers,

•vertical integration,

•innovation and technological advances from our research and development activities and our perfumers and flavorists,

•our ability to tailor products to customers’ needs,

•our ability to manufacture products on a global scale, and

•broad-based regulatory capabilities.

Large multi-national customers and, increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers by placing some on “core lists,” giving them priority for development and production of their new or modified products. To compete more successfully in this environment, we must make continued investments in customer relationships and tailor our research and development efforts to anticipate customers’ needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on these “core lists.”

 9

Private label manufacturers, mostly medium-sized, local or small food manufacturers, constitute a growing segment in the flavor market. Over the last decade, with the strengthening of supermarket chains, online platforms and growing consumer price consciousness, demand and consumption of private label products has grown at a faster rate than the brand food industry rate. We believe that new business opportunities will continue to arise from these clients as they are increasing their demand for products that are similar to existing products in the market, distinctive premium products, as well as more innovative products.

The global demand for functional foods, food additives, natural ingredients, nutritional ingredients and supplements and active cosmetic ingredients is also growing. With our recent acquisitions, we have expanded our offerings to include products within the functional food ingredient market, including ingredients focused on improving the health and wellness characteristics of a consumer good, the nutritional supplement and infant nutrition markets and the cosmetic actives market. While the three other large global flavor and fragrance manufacturers, Givaudan, Firmenich and Symrise, are active in these areas, we also compete with specialty chemical companies, other large multi-national companies and smaller regional and local participants that offer products that address these same needs.

Our People

The success of our business is built on our talented employees. Our global team uses the latest science, insights, research, creative thinking and customer understanding to develop products that make an impact with customers and consumers across the world. At December 31, 2019, we had approximately 13,600 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 2,000 are employed in the United States. We believe that relations with our employees are good.

Availability of Reports

We make available free of charge on or through the “Investors” link on our website, www.iff.com, all materials that we file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form 10-K, we made all such materials available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with the SEC.

The SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors are posted on the “Investors” section of our website, www.iff.com.

Our principal executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019 (212-765-5500).

Executive Officers of Registrant

The current executive officers of the Company, as of March 3, 2020, are listed below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Andreas Fibig has served as our Chairman since December 2014 and Chief Executive Officer since September 2014. Mr. Fibig has been a member of our Board of Directors since 2011. From 2008 to 2014, Mr. Fibig served as President and Chairman of the Board of Management of Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the pharmaceutical division of Bayer AG. Prior to Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Fibig held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at Pfizer Inc., a research-based 

 10

pharmaceutical company, including as Senior Vice President in the US Pharmaceutical Operations group from 2007 through 2008 and as President, Latin America, Africa and Middle East from 2006 through 2007.

Rustom Jilla has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2020. From July 2015 to January 2020, Mr. Jilla served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MSC Industrial Direct Co., Inc., a distributor of metalworking and maintenance repair operations, products and services. From April 2013 to September 2014, Mr. Jilla served as CFO for Dematic Group, a European based global provider of warehouse logistics and inventory management solutions. Prior to that Mr. Jilla was CFO of Ansell Limited, an Australian-listed global leader in protective solutions from September 2002 to April 2013. Before that, Mr. Jilla held various leadership positions in finance and product management at PerkinElmer Inc. and The BOC Group, a British public multinational industrial gas company, in the U.S. and New Zealand. He began his career in auditing with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in Sri Lanka.

Richard A. O'Leary has served as our Executive Vice President and Integration Officer since January 2020. Previously, Mr. O’Leary served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2016. Mr. O’Leary originally joined our Company in July 2007. Mr. O’Leary was our Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from July 2015 until his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, and served as our Vice President and Controller from May 2009 to November 2014. Mr. O’Leary served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer from November 2014 to July 2015 and from July 2008 to May 2009. Mr. O’Leary was also our Vice President, Corporate Development from July 2007 to May 2009. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. O’Leary held various positions at International Paper Co., a paper and packaging company, which he originally joined in 1986, including Chief Financial Officer of International Paper Company (Brazil) from June 2004 to June 2007. Prior to International Paper Co., Mr. O’Leary was with Arthur Young & Co.

Nicolas Mirzayantz has served as our Divisional Chief Executive Officer, Scent since October 2018. Mr. Mirzayantz originally joined our Company in 1988 and was our Group President, Fragrances from January 2007 to October 2018. Mr. Mirzayantz also served as a member of our Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer from October 1, 2009 until February 2010, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care and Regional Manager, North America from March 2005 to December 2006, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care from October 2004 to February 2005, and our Vice President Global Fragrance Business Development from February 2002 to September 2004.

Matthias Haeni has served as our Divisional Chief Executive Officer, Taste since October 2018. Mr. Haeni joined our Company in 2007 as Regional General Manager, Flavors Greater Asia and was our Group President, Flavors from April 2014 to October 2018. In 2010, Mr. Haeni transferred to Hilversum, The Netherlands where he served as Regional General Manager for Flavors in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East (“EAME”). Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Haeni was based in Singapore as Givaudan’s Vice President of Commercial Flavors, Southeast Asia Pacific and held similar positions throughout EAME.

Gregory Yep has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Global Scientific & Sustainability Officer since June 2016. Prior to joining our Company, Dr. Yep was Senior Vice President of Research, Development & Applications with The Kerry Group from January 2015 to June 2016. Prior to The Kerry Group, Dr. Yep was Senior Vice President of R&D at PepsiCo from June 2009 to December 2015 and was Global Vice President, Application Technologies at Givaudan Flavors and Fragrances from December 2005 to June 2009. Earlier in his career, Dr. Yep was at McCormick & Company, where he held executive roles of increasing responsibility in food science. Dr. Yep holds a bachelor’s degree in biology and chemistry from the University of Pennsylvania and master’s degree and Ph.D. in organic chemistry from Johns Hopkins University.

Susana Suarez-Gonzalez has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2016. Prior to joining our Company, Ms. Gonzalez was Senior Vice President, Global Operations & Centers Expertise, Human Resources of Fluor Corporation from 2014 to 2016. Ms. Gonzalez began her career at Fluor Corporation in 1991, and during her 25 years with the company, she held various leadership positions across several business groups and functions including construction, marketing, sales, project engineering and human resources.

 Anne Chwat has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2015 and as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from April 2011 to August 2015. Prior to joining our Company, Ms. Chwat served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Burger King Holdings, Inc., a fast food hamburger restaurant company, from September 2004 to April 2011. From September 2000 to September 2004, Ms. Chwat held various positions at BMG Music (now Sony Music Entertainment), including Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer.

Francisco Fortanet has served as our Executive Vice President, Operations since August 2015 and as Senior Vice President, Operations from February 27, 2012 to August 2015. In 2018, he was named Frutarom Integration lead. Mr. Fortanet joined our Company in 1995, and has served as our Vice President, Global Manufacturing Compounding from January 2007 to February 2012, our Vice President, Global Manufacturing from January 2006 to January 2007, our Regional Director of North America Operations from December 2003 to January 2005, the Project Manager of a special project in Ireland from May 2003 

 11

to December 2003, and as our Plant Manager in Hazlet, New Jersey from October 1999 to May 2003. Mr. Fortanet started his career in IFF-Mexico.

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.