PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

General

L Brands, Inc. (“we” or the "Company”) operates in the highly competitive specialty retail business. Founded in 1963 in Columbus, Ohio, we have evolved from an apparel-based specialty retailer to a segment leader focused on women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care, beauty and home fragrance products. We sell our merchandise through company-owned specialty retail stores in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada, the United Kingdom ("U.K."), Ireland and Greater China (China and Hong Kong); through websites; and through international franchise, license and wholesale partners (collectively, "partners").

On February 20, 2020, we and SP VS Buyer LP ("Sycamore"), an affiliate of Sycamore Partners Management, L.P., entered into a Transaction Agreement (the "Transaction Agreement'') pursuant to which, among other things, we will transfer certain assets and liabilities relating to our business conducted under the Victoria's Secret and PINK brands to our newly formed subsidiary ("Victoria's Secret Holdco") and sell 55% of the equity interests of Victoria's Secret Holdco to Sycamore. After taking into account certain liabilities, Sycamore will purchase the 55% interest in Victoria's Secret Holdco. for approximately $525 million. We will retain a 45% interest in Victoria’s Secret to enable our shareholders to participate in the upside potential of the business. We intend to use the proceeds from the transaction, along with approximately $500 million of excess balance sheet cash, to reduce debt. For additional information, see "Recent Developments" below. For additional information regarding the risks and other uncertainties and factors related to the transaction, refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Bath & Body Works

Bath & Body Works, which sells products under the Bath & Body Works, White Barn, C.O. Bigelow and other brand names, is one of the leading specialty retailers of body care, home fragrance products, soaps and sanitizers. We sell our Bath & Body Works products online and at more than 1,735 Bath & Body Works company-owned stores in the U.S. and Canada. Additionally, Bath & Body Works has more than 275 stores in more than 30 other countries operating under franchise, license and wholesale arrangements.

Victoria’s Secret

Victoria’s Secret, including PINK, is a specialty retailer of women's intimate and other apparel with fashion-inspired collections and prestige fragrances. We sell our Victoria’s Secret products online and at more than 1,180 Victoria’s Secret and PINK company-owned stores in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Ireland and Greater China. Additionally, Victoria’s Secret and PINK have more than 440 stores in more than 70 countries operating under franchise, license and wholesale arrangements.

Divestiture and Closure

La Senza

On January 6, 2019, we completed the sale of the La Senza business to an affiliate of Regent LP, a global private equity firm. For additional information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Henri Bendel

In January 2019, we closed all of our Henri Bendel stores and the e-commerce website. For additional information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Fiscal Year

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. As used herein, “2019,” “2018,” “2016” and “2015” refer to the 52-week periods ended February 1, 2020, February 2, 2019, January 28, 2017 and January 30, 2016, respectively. "2017" refers to the 53-week period ended February 3, 2018. 

Real Estate

Company-owned Retail Stores

Our company-owned retail stores are located in shopping malls, lifestyle centers and street locations in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland and Greater China. As a result of our strong brands and established retail presence, we have been able to lease high-traffic locations in most retail centers in which we operate. 

 1
The following table provides the number of our company-owned retail stores in operation for each brand as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides the changes in the number of our company-owned retail stores operated for the past five fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(a) Relates to the acquisition of Victoria's Secret Beauty and Accessories franchise stores in Greater China. 

(b) Relates to the sale of the La Senza business. For additional information see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial

Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Franchise, License and Wholesale Arrangements

In addition to our company-owned stores, our products are sold at hundreds of partner locations in more than 70 countries. Under these arrangements, third parties operate stores that sell our products under our brand names. Revenue recognized under franchise and license arrangements generally consists of royalties earned and recognized upon sale of merchandise by franchise and license partners to retail customers. Revenue is generally recognized under wholesale and sourcing arrangements at the time the title passes to the partner. We continue to increase the number of locations under these types of arrangements as part of our international expansion.

The following table provides the number of our international stores operated by our partners for each business as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 2
Our Strengths

We believe the following competitive strengths contribute to our leading market position, differentiate us from our competitors and will drive future growth:

Industry Leading Brands

We have developed and operate brands that allow us to target markets across the economic spectrum, across demographics and across the world. We believe that our three brands, Victoria's Secret, PINK and Bath & Body Works, are highly recognizable, which provides us with a competitive advantage.

•At Victoria’s Secret, we market glamorous and sexy product lines to our customers. While bras and panties are the core of what we do, this brand also gives our customers choices in beauty products, fragrances, sleepwear, loungewear, athletic attire and personal care accessories.

•At PINK, we market products to the college-aged woman. While bras and panties are the core of what we do, this brand also gives our customers choices in apparel, loungewear, athletic attire and accessories.

•Bath & Body Works caters to our customers’ entire well-being, providing shower gels and lotions, aromatherapy, home fragrance, soaps and sanitizers and body care accessories.

In-Store Experience and Store Operations

We view our customers' in-store experience as an important vehicle for communicating the image of each brand. We utilize visual presentation of merchandise, in-store marketing, music and our sales associates to reinforce the image represented by the brands.

Our in-store marketing is designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand. The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a unique shopping experience. Every brand displays merchandise uniformly to ensure a consistent store experience, regardless of location. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the company-wide merchandising strategy.

Our sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores by providing a high level of customer service.

Digital Experience 

In addition to our in-store experience, we strive to create a customer-centric digital platform that integrates the digital and physical brand experience. Our digital presence, including social media, our websites and our mobile applications, allows us to get to know our customers better and communicate with them anytime and anywhere.

Product Development, Sourcing and Logistics

We believe a large part of our success comes from frequent and innovative product launches, which include bra launches at Victoria’s Secret and PINK and new fragrance and other product launches at Bath & Body Works. Our merchant, design and sourcing teams have a long history of bringing innovative products to our customers. Additionally, we believe that our sourcing and production function (Mast Global) has a long and deep presence in the key sourcing markets including those in the U.S. and Asia, which helps us partner with the best manufacturers to get high-quality products quickly. 

Experienced and Committed Management Team

We were founded in 1963 and have been led since inception by Leslie H. Wexner. Our senior management team has a wealth of retail and business experience at L Brands, Inc. and other companies such as The Gap, Ralph Lauren, Tory Burch, Starbucks, Land's End, Levi Strauss, Boots, The Home Depot and Yum Brands. We believe that we have one of the most experienced management teams in retail.

Upon closing of the transaction contemplated by the Transaction Agreement (the "Closing"), Mr. Wexner will step down as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board to become Chairman Emeritus, remaining as a member of the Board. Andrew Meslow, Chief Executive Officer of Bath & Body Works, will be appointed by the Board as the Chief Executive Officer of L Brands, Inc. and as a director of L Brands, Inc., effective upon the Closing. Mr. Meslow, who joined L Brands, Inc. in 2003, has 29 years of experience in the retail industry, including the last 15 at Bath & Body Works. Additionally, Sarah E. Nash, a member of the Board, will be appointed as the Chair of the Board effective upon the Closing.

 3
Additional Information

Merchandise Vendors

During 2019, we purchased merchandise from approximately 340 vendors located throughout the world. No vendor provided 10% or more of our merchandise purchases.

Distribution and Merchandise Inventory

Most of our merchandise is shipped to our distribution centers in the Columbus, Ohio, area. We use a variety of shipping terms that result in the transfer of title of the merchandise at either the point of origin or point of destination.

Our policy is to maintain sufficient quantities of inventories on hand in our retail stores and distribution centers to enable us to offer customers an appropriate selection of current merchandise. We emphasize rapid turnover and take markdowns as required to keep merchandise fresh and current.

Information Systems

Our management information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial and merchandising systems. The systems include applications related to point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management, data security and support systems including human resources and finance. 

Seasonal Business

Our operations are seasonal in nature and consist of two principal selling seasons: Spring (the first and second quarters) and Fall (the third and fourth quarters). The fourth quarter, including the holiday season, accounted for approximately one-third of our net sales for 2019, 2018 and 2017 and is typically our most profitable quarter. Accordingly, cash requirements are highest in the third quarter as our inventories build in advance of the holiday season.

Working Capital 

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs and investment opportunities. 

Regulation

We and our products are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. We are subject to a variety of tax and customs regulations and international trade arrangements.

Trademarks and Patents

Our trademarks and patents, which constitute our primary intellectual property, have been registered or are the subject of pending applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. We believe our products are identified by our intellectual property and, thus, our intellectual property is of significant value. Accordingly, we intend to maintain our intellectual property and related registrations and vigorously protect our intellectual property assets against infringement.

Segment Information

We have three reportable segments: Victoria’s Secret, Bath & Body Works and Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works International. For additional information, including the financial results of our reportable segments, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Other Information

For additional information about our business, including our net sales and profits for the last three years and selling square footage, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Competition

The sale of women's intimate and other apparel, home fragrance, personal care and beauty products and accessories through retail stores is a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, assortment and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store sales. Our online businesses compete with numerous online merchandisers. Image presentation, fulfillment and the factors affecting retail store sales discussed above are the principal competitive factors in online sales.

 4
Associate Relations

As of February 1, 2020, we employed approximately 94,400 associates; 68,900 of whom were part-time. In addition, temporary associates are hired during peak periods, such as the holiday season.

Executive Officers of Registrant 

Set forth below is certain information regarding our executive officers.

Leslie H. Wexner, 82, has been our Chief Executive Officer since our founding in 1963 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1975.

Stuart B. Burgdoerfer, 57, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007.

Charles C. McGuigan, 63, has been our Chief Operating Officer since May 2012 and our Chief Executive Officer and President of Mast Global since February 2011.

Shelley B. Milano, 63, has been our Chief Human Resources Officer since April 2018.

James L. Bersani, 61, has been our President of Real Estate since March 2014 and has led our Real Estate function since April 2006.

Recent Developments

Victoria’s Secret Transaction

On February 20, 2020, we and Sycamore entered into a definitive agreement that is intended to deliver long-term value to L Brands, Inc. shareholders by positioning Bath & Body Works as a standalone public company and transitioning Victoria's Secret, including business conducted under the Victoria's Secret and PINK brands and certain support functions, into a privately-held entity.

After taking into account certain liabilities, Sycamore will purchase a 55% interest in Victoria's Secret for approximately $525 million. We will retain a 45% interest in Victoria’s Secret to enable our shareholders to participate in the upside potential of the business. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020, subject to customary closing conditions. We will report the results of Victoria's Secret as discontinued operations beginning in the first quarter of 2020. 

Upon the Closing, Leslie H. Wexner will step down as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board to become Chairman Emeritus, remaining as a member of the Board. Andrew Meslow, Chief Executive Officer of Bath & Body Works, will be appointed by the Board as the Chief Executive Officer of L Brands, Inc. and as director of L Brands, Inc., effective upon the Closing. Sarah E. Nash, a member of the Board, will be appointed as the Chair of the Board effective upon the Closing.

Company Response to Coronavirus

We are closely monitoring the outbreak of respiratory illness caused by a novel coronavirus that was first detected in Wuhan, China and has since spread globally. The coronavirus has been declared by the World Health Organization to be a “pandemic,” has spread to many countries, including the U.S., and is impacting worldwide economic activity. A public health epidemic, including the coronavirus, poses the risk that we or our employees, contractors, suppliers, and other business partners may be prevented from conducting business activities for an unknown period of time. Related industries in the U.S. and across the world may be adversely affected, including manufacturing and textile production. The situation and preventative or protective actions that governments around the world have taken to contain the spread of the coronavirus have resulted in a period of disruption, including closure of stores where our products are sold, limited store operating hours, reduced customer traffic and consumer spending, labor shortages and delays in manufacturing and shipping of products and raw materials in the U.S., China and other countries. To the extent the impact of the coronavirus continues or worsens, we may have difficulty obtaining the materials necessary for the manufacturing of our products, factories which produce our products may remain closed for sustained periods of time, and industry-wide shipment of products may be negatively impacted. Further, if the impact of the coronavirus continues or worsens, consumer behavior may be altered for an extended period of time which would impact our cash and liquidity and financial condition. The coronavirus and resulting economic disruption has also led to significant volatility in the capital markets and may adversely impact our stock price and ability to access cash. Any one adverse effect of the coronavirus, or a combination of adverse effects, could materially impact our results and financial condition. 

Subsequent to February 1, 2020, we announced actions in response to the continued spread of the coronavirus. 

 5
On March 16, 2020, in an abundance of caution and as a proactive measure, we elected to borrow $950 million from our secured revolving credit facility ("Secured Revolving Facility"), leaving our availability under the Secured Revolving Facility at $22 million.

On March 17, 2020, we announced the temporary closure of all Bath & Body Works, Victoria’s Secret and PINK stores in the United States and Canada through March 29, 2020. Associates will continue to receive pay and benefits through April 4, 2020, which is one week longer than originally announced.

Based on the continued spread of the coronavirus and stay-at-home orders by government officials across the country, we are extending the closure of our stores beyond the initial March 29th date. As the situation continues to evolve rapidly, we are not currently able to predict the timing of store reopenings. However, we are monitoring the situation closely and will provide updates as appropriate. We continue to serve customers through our direct channels.

In an effort to further strengthen our financial flexibility and efficiently manage through the pandemic, we are proactively taking the following additional actions:

•Suspending our quarterly cash dividend beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. We remain committed to paying dividends over the long-term and will re-evaluate when appropriate.

•Executing a substantial reduction in expenses and capital expenditures. This includes an ongoing reduction in forward inventory receipts.

•Temporarily reducing base compensation by 20% for senior vice presidents and above. The cash compensation of Chairman and CEO Leslie H. Wexner and other members of the Board of Directors has been suspended. Additionally, we are deferring annual merit increases.

•Furloughing most store associates and those who are not currently working to support the online businesses or who cannot work from home, effective April 5, 2020 until further notice. All furloughed associates will continue to receive existing healthcare benefits. As circumstances change, we will make every effort to bring these associates back to work as soon as possible. Furloughed associates will also be able to apply for unemployment benefits, if eligible. 

As of March 27, 2020, we currently have more than $2 billion in cash, which includes the $950 million borrowed under the Secured Revolving Facility on March 16, 2020. Our Secured Revolving Facility has certain financial covenants, including a debt to consolidated EBITDA covenant, which may be breached as early as the end of the fiscal quarter ending May 2, 2020. If we were to violate a covenant, our lenders would have the right to accelerate our Secured Revolving Facility indebtedness, demand cash collateral in respect of the letters of credit issued thereunder and terminate the funding commitments available thereunder. While we believe that we would be able to obtain temporary waivers for any such breach of a covenant to prevent an acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness or obtain a replacement credit facility, we cannot conclude with certainty that we would have the ability to obtain necessary waivers or negotiate less restrictive debt covenants with our lenders. We are in active conversations with the lenders under our credit facility to obtain a replacement credit facility that does not contain a debt to consolidated EBITDA financial covenant or a temporary waiver in respect of such financial covenant in our existing Secured Revolving Facility. We believe that our current cash balance, along with the actions taken as outlined above, provides us with sufficient current liquidity.

These recent developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additional information on this risk and other uncertainties and factors, is set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our website at www.lb.com.

Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to:

L Brands, Inc.

Investor Relations Department

Three Limited Parkway

Columbus, Ohio 43230

 6
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.