Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

HIGHLIGHTS

Two substantial activities affected our sales and earnings in 2019. First, in January 2019 we acquired ECS and gained critical capabilities in proprietary foam technology along with scale in the production of private-label finished mattresses. ECS is the largest acquisition in our history, with a purchase price of approximately $1.25 billion. ECS increased sales 13% in 2019 and contributed to our earnings growth over 2018. Second, in late 2018 we initiated restructuring activity, primarily in Fashion Bed and Home Furniture, in order to exit low margin business, reduce operating costs, and eliminate excess capacity (the "2018 Restructuring Plan"). This resulted in the closure of Fashion Bed and the restructuring of our Home Furniture business. In 2019, our sales were reduced 3% by business we exited in connection with the 2018 Restructuring Plan. By the second half of 2019, we began to see an earnings improvement in the Furniture Products segment from restructuring activity. 

Sales increased 11% in 2019. Acquisitions, primarily ECS, added 14% to sales. Organic sales (as defined below) were down 3%, on 3% lower volume. Raw material-related selling price increases added 1% to sales, offset by a 1% negative currency impact. Sales growth in most businesses, including U.S. Spring, Automotive, Work Furniture, and Aerospace, was offset primarily by the planned exit of business in Fashion Bed and Home Furniture which reduced sales 3% and weak trade demand for steel rod and wire. 

Earnings increased from the non-recurrence of a note impairment charge in 2018 and lower restructuring-related and acquisition-related transaction costs. Earnings further improved from lower raw material costs (including LIFO benefit), the ECS acquisition, and improved earnings performance in our Furniture Products segment. 

In 2019, we generated record operating cash flow of $668 million, a $228 million increase over 2018. The improvement was driven by a significant reduction in working capital across the company and strong operating cash generation in many of our businesses, including ECS. We generated more than enough operating cash flow to fund dividends and capital expenditures, something we have accomplished each year for over 30 years. 

In January, we expanded the size of our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion, increased permitted borrowings, subject to covenant restrictions, under our commercial paper program in a corresponding amount, and added additional borrowing capacity in the form of a 5-year $500 million term loan primarily to finance the ECS transaction. After completing the ECS acquisition in January 2019, our debt levels increased. We focused on deleveraging in 2019 by limiting share repurchases, controlling the pace of further acquisition spending, and using operating cash flow to repay debt. We expect to further reduce debt levels in 2020. Our financial base remains strong. 

We raised the quarterly dividend by 5% in 2019 and extended our record of consecutive annual increases to 48 years. Consistent with our deleveraging plan, share repurchases were limited in 2019. For the full year, we repurchased only 700,000 shares of our stock, primarily surrendered for employee benefit plans. 

Portfolio management remains a strategic priority. Over the past several years we have enhanced our business portfolio and improved margins by growing our stronger businesses and exiting or restructuring businesses that consistently struggled to deliver acceptable returns. During 2019 we acquired two businesses: ECS and a small geo components operation. We also continued investing capital to support organic growth opportunities. Total capital expenditures were $143 million, 10% lower than 2018, reflecting a balance of investing for the future and controlling our spending.

 We incurred the following restructuring and ECS-related charges in 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28
PART II

The restructuring-related charges are primarily attributable to the Fashion Bed and Home Furniture businesses. The restructuring activity is substantially complete. 

These topics are discussed in more detail in the sections that follow.

INTRODUCTION

Total Shareholder Return

Total Shareholder Return (TSR), relative to peer companies, is a primary financial measure that we use to assess long-term performance. TSR = (Change in Stock Price + Dividends) ÷ Beginning Stock Price. Our goal is to achieve TSR in the top third of the S&P 500 companies over the long term through an approach that employs four TSR sources: revenue growth, margin expansion, dividends, and share repurchases.

We monitor our TSR performance relative to the S&P 500 on a rolling three-year basis. We believe our disciplined growth strategy, portfolio management, and prudent use of capital will support achievement of our goal over time.

The table below shows the components of our TSR targets. Long-term, accomplishing this level of performance over rolling three-year periods should enable us to consistently attain our top-third TSR goal.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In connection with the acquisition of ECS, our debt levels increased. We are currently focused on deleveraging and are temporarily limiting share repurchases, controlling the pace of acquisition spending and using operating cash flow to repay debt. The ECS transaction did not change our long-term TSR targets and framework. In the near-term, revenue growth will benefit significantly from the initial impact of the acquisition. At the same time, increased interest expense from the transaction negatively impacted TSR in 2019. As we pay down the acquisition debt, the corresponding reduction in interest expense should have a positive impact on TSR. The stock buyback component is expected to be slightly negative to TSR due to the temporary limiting of share repurchases while we focus on deleveraging. Longer-term, the ECS acquisition is expected to benefit all four TSR sources through profitable growth and strong operating cash flow.

Senior executives participate in an incentive program with a three-year performance period based on two equal measures: (i) our TSR performance compared to the performance of a group of approximately 300 peers, and (ii) the Company or segment Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR). 

Customers

We serve a broad suite of customers, with our largest customer representing approximately 5% of our sales in 2019. Many are companies whose names are widely recognized. They include bedding, residential and office furniture producers, automotive OEM and Tier 1 manufacturers, and a variety of other companies.

Organic Sales

This report contains the sales metric organic sales which we calculate identically to same location sales as used in our prior reports. We calculate organic sales as net sales excluding sales attributable to acquisitions and divestitures 

29
PART II

consummated within the last twelve months. Management uses the metric, and it is useful to investors, as supplemental information to analyze our underlying sales performance from period to period in our legacy businesses.

Major Factors That Impact Our Business

Many factors impact our business, but those that generally have the greatest impact are market demand, raw material cost trends, and competition.

Market Demand

Market demand (including product mix) is impacted by several economic factors, with consumer confidence being the most significant. Other important factors include disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover, and interest rates. All of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and therefore affect demand for our products and components. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one quarter of our sales.

Raw Material Costs

Our costs can vary significantly as market prices for raw materials (many of which are commodities) fluctuate. We typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; accordingly, our raw material costs generally move with the market. Our ability to recover higher costs (through selling price increases) is crucial. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Conversely, when costs decrease significantly, we generally pass those lower costs through to our customers. The timing of our price increases or decreases is important; we typically experience a lag in recovering higher costs, and we also realize a lag as costs decline.

Steel is our principal raw material. At various times in past years, we have experienced significant cost fluctuations in this commodity. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were passed through to customers with selling price adjustments. Over the past few years we have seen varying degrees of inflation and deflation in U.S. steel pricing. In 2017 and through the first half of 2018 steel costs inflated, then became relatively stable in the back half of 2018. In 2019, steel costs decreased through most of the year. 

As a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by changes in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). Metal margins within the steel industry expanded in the first half of 2018. Although steel scrap costs increased early in 2018, rod prices increased to a much larger degree. Both stabilized by mid-2018. In 2019, although steel prices decreased through the year, a wider than usual metal margin persisted. Because of these factors, our steel rod mill experienced enhanced profitability in 2018 and 2019. 

With the acquisition of ECS, we now have greater exposure to the cost of chemicals, including TDI, MDI, and polyol. The cost of these chemicals has fluctuated at times, but ECS has generally passed the changes through to its customers, with a lag that varies based on customer contract terms. In 2019, ECS experienced a negative effect on sales due to chemical deflation. Our other raw materials include woven and non-woven fabrics and foam scrap. We have experienced changes in the cost of these materials in past years and generally, have been able to pass them through to our customers. 

When we raise our prices to recover higher raw material costs, this sometimes causes customers to modify their product designs and replace higher cost components with lower cost components. We must continue providing product options to our customers that enable them to improve the functionality of their products and manage their costs, while providing higher profits for our operations. 

Competition

Many of our markets are highly competitive, with the number of competitors varying by product line. In general, our competitors tend to be smaller, private companies. Many of our competitors, both domestic and foreign, compete primarily on the basis of price. Our success has stemmed from the ability to remain price competitive, while delivering innovation, better product quality, and customer service.

30
PART II

We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products offshore. In addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. They may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. We typically remain price competitive in most of our business units, even versus many foreign manufacturers, as a result of our highly efficient operations, automation, vertical integration in steel and wire, logistics and distribution efficiencies, and large scale purchasing of raw materials and commodities. However, we have also reacted to foreign competition in certain cases by selectively adjusting prices, developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs and shifting production offshore to take advantage of lower input costs. 

Since 2009, there have been antidumping duty orders on innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam, ranging from 116% to 234%. In September 2019, the Department of Commerce (DOC) and the International Trade Commission (ITC) concluded a second sunset review, and determined the orders should be extended for an additional five years, through October 2024; at which time, the DOC and ITC will conduct a third sunset review to determine whether to extend the orders for an additional five years.

Antidumping and countervailing duty cases filed by major U.S. steel wire rod producers have resulted in the imposition of antidumping duties on imports of steel wire rod from Brazil, China, Belarus, Indonesia, Italy, Korea, Mexico, Moldova, Russia, South Africa, Spain, Trinidad & Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom, ranging from 1% to 757%, and countervailing duties on imports of steel wire rod from Brazil, China, Italy and Turkey, ranging from 3% to 193%. In June 2019, the ITC and DOC initiated a third sunset review to determine whether to extend the orders on Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico, Moldova, and Trinidad & Tobago for an additional five years, and, in December 2019, the ITC and DOC initiated a first sunset review to determine whether to extend the orders on China for an additional five years. Duties will continue through December 2022 for Belarus, Italy, Korea, Russia, South Africa, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom. At that time the DOC and the ITC will conduct a sunset review to determine whether to extend those orders for an additional five years.

In September 2018, the Company, along with other domestic mattress producers, filed petitions with the DOC and the ITC alleging that manufacturers of mattresses in China were unfairly selling their products in the United States at less than fair value (dumping) and seeking the imposition of duties on mattresses imported from China. In October 2019, the DOC made a final determination assigning duty rates between 57% to 1,732%. In November 2019, the ITC made a unanimous final determination that domestic mattress producers were materially injured by reason of the unfairly priced imported mattresses. An antidumping order on imports of Chinese mattresses will remain in effect for five years, through December 2024, at which time the DOC and ITC will conduct a sunset review to determine whether to extend the order for an additional five years. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings on page 24 for more information.

Acquisition of ECS

On January 16, 2019, we acquired ECS for a cash purchase price of approximately $1.25 billion. ECS, headquartered in Newnan, Georgia, is a leader in specialized foam technology, primarily for the bedding and furniture industries. With 16 facilities across the United States, ECS operates a vertically-integrated model, developing many of the chemicals and additives used in foam production, producing specialty foam, and manufacturing private-label finished products. These innovative specialty foam products include finished mattresses sold through both traditional and online channels, mattress components, mattress toppers and pillows, and furniture foams. ECS has a diversified customer mix and a strong position in the high-growth compressed mattress market segment. ECS formed a separate business unit and reported within the Residential Products segment in 2019. 

For information on the financing of the ECS acquisition, please see the Commercial Paper Program on page 46. 

Change in Segment Reporting in 2020

Our reportable segments are the same as our operating segments, which also correspond with our management organizational structure. To reflect how we manage our newly aligned businesses and in conjunction with the change in executive officer leadership, our management organizational structure and all related internal reporting changed effective 

31
PART II

January 1, 2020. As a result, the composition of our segments also changed to reflect the new structure. For information on the change in our segment reporting structure, please see Item 1 Business, Revised Segment Structure on page 8.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2019 vs. 2018 

Sales increased 11% in 2019. Acquisitions, primarily ECS, added 14% to sales. Organic sales were down 3%, on 3% lower volume. Raw material-related selling price increases added 1% to sales, offset by a 1% negative currency impact. Sales growth in most businesses, including U.S. Spring, Automotive, Work Furniture, and Aerospace, was offset primarily by the planned exit of business in Fashion Bed and Home Furniture which reduced sales 3% and weak trade demand for steel rod and wire.

Earnings increased from the non-recurrence of a note impairment charge in 2018 and lower restructuring-related and acquisition-related transaction costs. Earnings further improved from lower raw material costs (including LIFO benefit), the ECS acquisition, and improved earnings performance in our Furniture Products segment. Further details about our consolidated and segment results are discussed below.

Consolidated Results (continuing operations)

The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2019, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 1 Calculations impacted by rounding

Full-year sales grew 11%, to $4.75 billion, and organic sales decreased 3%. Volume declined 3%, with gains in most of our businesses, including U.S. Spring, Automotive, Work Furniture, and Aerospace, more than offset by the planned exit of business in Fashion Bed and Home Furniture which reduced sales 3% and weak trade demand for steel rod and wire. Raw material-related selling price inflation from increases implemented in late 2018 were offset by a negative currency impact. Acquisitions contributed 14% to sales growth. 

As indicated in the table above, earnings increased from the non-recurrence of a note impairment charge in 2018 and lower restructuring-related and acquisition-related transaction costs. Operationally, earnings improved primarily from 

32
PART II

lower raw material costs (including LIFO benefit), the ECS acquisition, and improved earnings performance in Furniture Products from the 2018 Restructuring Plan. 

LIFO Impact

Approximately 40% of our inventories are valued on the LIFO method. These are primarily our domestic, steel-related inventories. In 2019, decreasing steel costs resulted in a full-year pretax LIFO benefit of $32 million. In 2018, increasing steel costs resulted in a full-year pretax LIFO expense of $31 million. 

For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 73.

Interest and Income Taxes

Net interest expense in 2019 was higher by $30 million primarily due to debt increases in early 2019 to fund the ECS acquisition.

Our worldwide effective income tax rate was 22.4% in 2019, compared to 20.4% in 2018. The following table reflects how our effective income tax rate differs from the statutory federal income tax rate. See Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 110 for additional details.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

33
Segment Results

In the following section we discuss 2019 sales and EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 86. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 This is the change in sales not attributable to acquisitions or divestitures in the last 12 months. Refer to the Residential Products discussion below for a reconciliation of the change in total segment sales to organic sales. 

2 Segment margins are calculated on total sales. Overall company margin is calculated on trade sales.

3 Unallocated consists primarily of depreciation and amortization on non-operating assets.

4 Calculations impacted by rounding.

Residential Products

Total sales grew 36%. Acquisitions added 35% to sales. Organic sales increased 1% with growth in U.S. Spring, European Spring and Geo Components offset by lower sales in other businesses, primarily Flooring Products and Machinery. Raw material-related selling price increases were offset by a negative currency impact. 

34
PART II

EBIT increased $38 million, primarily from earnings from the ECS acquisition (including $45 million of amortization expense and a $5 million non-recurring charge related to acquired inventories) and the non-recurrence of a $16 million non-cash impairment charge related to a note receivable in the fourth quarter of 2018.

 Industrial Products

Total sales in Industrial Products decreased 10%. Volume was down 13% from weak trade demand for steel rod and wire. Raw material-related selling price increases added 3% to sales. 

EBIT increased $29 million, primarily from lower raw material costs (including LIFO benefit) partially offset by lower trade steel rod and wire volume.

Furniture Products

Total sales in Furniture Products decreased 8%. Volume decreased 8%, primarily from our decision to exit Fashion Bed and planned declines in Home Furniture, partially offset by growth in Work Furniture. Raw material-related selling price increases were offset by a negative currency impact. 

EBIT increased $24 million, primarily from improved pricing and lower fixed costs attributable to restructuring activity and lower restructuring-related charges ($10 million in 2019 versus $15 million in 2018).

Specialized Products

In Specialized Products, total sales were up 1% from the PHC acquisition in early 2018. Organic sales were flat. Volume increased 2% from growth in Automotive and Aerospace. Currency impact, net of raw material-related selling price increases in Hydraulic Cylinders, decreased sales 2%. 

EBIT decreased $18 million, with earnings from higher sales offset by higher operating costs in Aerospace and Hydraulic Cylinders, negative currency impact, and investment to support future growth in Automotive. 

Results from Discontinued Operations

There was no significant discontinued operations activity in 2019 or 2018. For further information about discontinued operations, see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2018 vs. 2017 

Sales increased 8% in 2018, from growth in volume, raw material-related selling price inflation, and currency impact. Acquisitions, net of divestitures completed in 2017, added 2% to sales. Sales growth came primarily from content gains and new program awards in Automotive, market share and content gains in Bedding, growth in Adjustable Bed and raw material-related selling price increases. Several other businesses, including Work Furniture, Aerospace, and International Spring contributed to sales growth.

Earnings from continuing operations increased from the non-recurrence of charges in 2017 associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), and despite restructuring-related and impairment charges incurred in 2018. Earnings further improved primarily from improved metal margins at our steel rod mill and higher sales. However, these improvements were largely offset by higher raw material costs (including LIFO expense), the lag associated with passing along ongoing inflation, and weak performance in a few of our businesses. This led us to initiate restructuring activity late in 2018, primarily in Fashion Bed and Home Furniture, where we exited low margin business, reduced operating costs, and eliminated excess capacity. Further details about our consolidated and segment results are discussed below.

35
Consolidated Results (continuing operations)

The following table shows the changes in sales and earnings from continuing operations during 2018, and identifies the major factors contributing to the changes. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 1 Calculations impacted by rounding

Full-year sales grew 8%, to $4.27 billion, and organic sales increased 6%. Volume grew 3%, with gains in Automotive, Bedding, Adjustable Bed, Work Furniture, and Aerospace partially offset by declines in other businesses, primarily Home Furniture, Fashion Bed, and Flooring Products. Raw material-related selling price increases and currency impact added 3%. Acquisitions, net of 2017 divestitures, contributed 2% to sales growth. 

As indicated in the table above, earnings from continuing operations increased primarily from the non-recurrence of the TCJA and other charges in 2017, despite restructuring-related and impairment charges incurred in 2018. Operationally, earnings improved primarily from increased metal margins at our steel mill and higher sales, offset by higher raw material costs (including LIFO expense), the lag associated with passing along ongoing inflation, and underperformance in a few of our businesses. 

36
PART II

LIFO Impact

Prior to the ECS acquisition, approximately 50% of our inventories were valued on the LIFO method. These were primarily our domestic, steel-related inventories. In 2018, increasing steel costs resulted in a full-year pretax LIFO expense of $31 million. In 2017, increasing steel costs resulted in a full-year pretax LIFO expense of $19 million. 

For further discussion of inventories, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 73.

 Interest and Income Taxes

Net interest expense in 2018 was higher by $17 million, primarily due to the issuance of $500 million of new debt in the fourth quarter of 2017, higher rates on commercial paper, and additional consideration for a prior year acquisition (see Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117). 2018's interest expense also includes $3 million of financing-related charges incurred in connection with the ECS acquisition.

Our worldwide effective income tax rate on continuing operations was 20.4% in 2018, compared to 32.0% in 2017. Our tax rate was significantly impacted by the enactment of TCJA in the fourth quarter of 2017, which reduced the statutory federal income tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018. 

The following table reflects how our effective income tax rate from continuing operations differs from these statutory federal income tax rates. See Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 110 for additional details.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2017, we recorded certain provisional amounts related to TCJA in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 118. We refined this estimate in 2018, and recorded measurement period adjustment benefits related to the deemed repatriation tax and our deferred tax revaluation. In aggregate, these adjustment items decreased our effective tax rate by .4% in 2018. At December 31, 2018, our accounting was finalized with respect to the SAB 118 provisional amounts recorded at December 31, 2017. 

37
 Segment Results

In the following section we discuss 2018 sales and EBIT for each of our segments. We provide additional detail about segment results and a reconciliation of segment EBIT to consolidated EBIT in Note G to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 86. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 This is the change in sales not attributable to acquisitions or divestitures in the last 12 months. Refer to the Residential Products and Specialized Products discussions below for a reconciliation of the change in total segment sales to organic sales. 

2 Segment margins are calculated on total sales. Overall company margin is calculated on trade sales.

3 Unallocated consists primarily of depreciation and amortization on non-operating assets.

Residential Products

Total sales grew 5%, from a 4% increase in organic sales (due to raw material-related selling price increases) and 1% from acquisitions. Volume was flat, with growth in U.S. Spring, European Spring and Geo Components offset by lower sales in other businesses, primarily Flooring Products. 

38
PART II

EBIT decreased $51 million, with $21 million of the decline from a $16 million non-cash impairment charge related to a note receivable, $4 million in costs incurred in connection with the ECS acquisition, and $1 million in restructuring-related charges. In addition, EBIT decreased from higher raw material costs (including LIFO expense) and increased spending to support content and market share gains in U.S. Spring. 

Industrial Products

Total sales in Industrial Products grew 21%, from raw material-related selling price increases (18%) and higher volume (3%). 

EBIT increased $47 million from improved metal margins at our steel rod mill, higher volume and the non-recurrence of a $5 million impairment of a small wire products operation in 2017. These improvements were partially offset by higher LIFO expense.

Furniture Products

Total sales in Furniture Products grew 4%. Volume increased 2%, with growth in Adjustable Bed and Work Furniture, partially offset by declines in Home Furniture and Fashion Bed. Raw material-related selling price increases and currency impact added 2% to sales growth. 

EBIT decreased $31 million, $15 million from restructuring-related charges and the remainder primarily from higher steel costs (including LIFO expense), promotional activity, and lower overhead recovery.

Specialized Products

In Specialized Products, total sales grew 12%. Organic sales increased 6% from volume gains in Automotive and Aerospace, and currency benefits. The PHC acquisition added 9% and was partially offset (3%) by 2017’s CVP divestiture. 

EBIT decreased $7 million despite higher sales because of the non-recurrence of a $23 million gain on the sale of real estate offset by a $3 million loss from the CVP divestiture in 2017. 

Results from Discontinued Operations

There was no significant discontinued operations activity in 2018 or 2017. For further information about discontinued operations, see Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITALIZATION

In 2019, we generated $668 million in cash from operations, a $228 million increase over 2018. Our operations provided more than enough cash to fund both capital expenditures and dividend payments, something we have accomplished each year for over 30 years. We expect this to again be the case in 2020. 

We continued investing capital to support organic growth opportunities. Total capital expenditures in 2019 were $143 million, 10% lower than 2018, reflecting a balance of investing for the future and controlling our spending. We raised the quarterly dividend by 5% and extended our record of consecutive annual increases to 48 years. In keeping with our deleveraging plan, we repurchased only 700,000 shares of our stock during the year, primarily surrendered for employee benefit plans. 

In January 2019, we increased the size of our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion, correspondingly increased permitted borrowing, subject to covenant restrictions, under our commercial paper program, and added additional borrowing capacity in the form of a $500 million 5-year term loan primarily to finance the ECS transaction. 

39
After completing the ECS transaction our debt levels increased. We focused on deleveraging in 2019 by limiting share repurchases, controlling the pace of further acquisition spending, and using operating cash flow to repay debt. We expect to further reduce debt levels in 2020. 

Cash from Operations

Cash from operations is our primary source of funds. Earnings and changes in working capital levels are the two factors that generally have the greatest impact on our cash from operations.

Cash from operations-2017 $444 million, 2018 $440 million, 2019 $668 million  

Cash from operations increased $228 million in 2019, primarily from a significant reduction in working capital across the company and strong operating cash generation in many of our businesses, including ECS. 

40
PART II

We closely monitor our working capital levels and we ended 2019 with working capital at 13.3% and adjusted working capital at 9.9% of annualized sales.1 The table below explains this non-GAAP calculation. We eliminate cash and current debt maturities from working capital to monitor our operating efficiency and performance related to trade receivables, inventories, and accounts payable. We believe this provides a more useful measurement to investors since cash and current maturities can fluctuate significantly from period to period. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Annualized sales equal 4th quarter sales ($1,145 million in 2019 and $1,047 million in 2018) multiplied by 4. We believe measuring our working capital against this sales metric is more useful, since efficient management of working capital includes adjusting those net asset levels to reflect current business volume.

Three Primary Components of our Working Capital

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Days sales outstanding: ((beginning of year trade receivables + end of period trade receivables) ÷ 2) ÷ (net trade sales ÷ number of days in the period).

2 Days inventory on hand: ((beginning of year inventory + end of period inventory) ÷ 2) ÷ (cost of goods sold ÷ number of days in the period).

3 Days payables outstanding: ((beginning of year accounts payable + end of period accounts payable) ÷ 2) ÷ (cost of goods sold ÷ number of days in the period).

4 2017 ratios have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the adoption of ASU 2017-07 that resulted in reclassifications between "Cost of goods sold" and "Selling and administrative expenses" into "Other expense (income), net." 

Trade Receivables - Our trade receivables increased by $19 million at December 31, 2019 compared to prior year. Acquisitions added $74 million (primarily ECS), leaving a net decrease of $55 million on the balance of the trade receivables portfolio. Sales growth was offset by restructuring activities and changes in the timing of sales and cash receipts. In addition, a dedicated focus on improving collection techniques has proven effective in business units that typically have longer payment terms, including a greater participation by certain customers in programs with incentives for early payment offered by third parties. We had approximately $40 million and $15 million of trade receivables that were sold and removed from our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

Although we recorded a $16 million reserve ($15 million on a note receivable and $1 million for a trade accounts receivable) in the fourth quarter of 2018 regarding a customer that was experiencing financial problems, we have seen favorable trends in the number of trade accounts that require a reserve over the last few years. Our annual provision for losses on trade accounts receivable has averaged $2 million for the last three years. On the balance sheet, our allowance for doubtful trade receivables as a percentage of our net trade receivables has approximated 1% for the same time period. 

41
PART II

We obtain credit applications, credit reports, bank and trade references, and periodic financial statements from our customers to establish credit limits and terms as appropriate. We monitor all accounts for possible loss. In cases where a customer’s payment performance or financial condition begins to deteriorate or in the event of a customer bankruptcy, we tighten our credit limits and terms and make appropriate reserves based upon the facts and circumstances for each individual customer.

Inventories - Our inventories increased $3 million at December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year. Acquisitions added $63 million (primarily ECS), which was offset by focused inventory reductions, restructuring activities and steel deflation (including LIFO reserves). Days inventory on hand at December 31, 2019 is favorable as compared to our recent historical range. We believe we have established adequate reserves for any slower-moving or obsolete inventories. We continuously monitor our slower-moving and potentially obsolete inventory through reports on inventory quantities compared to usage within the previous 12 months. We also utilize cycle counting programs and complete physical counts of our inventory. When potential inventory obsolescence is indicated by these controls, we will take charges for write-downs to maintain an adequate level of reserves. Although additions to inventory reserves in 2019 and 2018 were impacted by restructuring activities, our reserve balances as a percentage of period-end inventory have remained consistent at 4% for the last three years. 

Accounts Payable - Our accounts payable decreased $2 million at December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year. Acquisitions added $37 million (primarily ECS), which was offset by wind-down activity at restructured locations, increased focus on inventory level reductions, and steel deflation. Our payment terms did not change meaningfully during 2019. We continue to look for ways to optimize payment terms through our significant purchasing power and also utilize third-party services that allow flexible payment options to enhance our DPO.

Uses of Cash

Finance Capital Requirements 

  Capital expenditures-2017 $159 million, 2018 $160 million, 2019 $143 million 

We intend to make investments to support expansion in businesses and product lines where sales are profitably growing, for efficiency improvement and maintenance, and for system enhancements. We expect capital expenditures to approximate $160 million in 2020. Our employee incentive plans emphasize returns on capital, which include net fixed assets and working capital. This emphasis focuses our management on asset utilization and helps ensure that we are investing additional capital dollars where attractive return potential exists.

Our long-term, 6-9% annual revenue growth objective envisions periodic acquisitions. We are seeking strategic acquisitions, and we are looking for opportunities to enter new growth markets (carefully screened for sustainable competitive advantage). As a reminder, in connection with the acquisition of ECS our debt levels increased, and we are focused on deleveraging by, among other factors, controlling the pace of acquisition spending.

42
PART II

In 2017, we acquired three businesses and the remaining interest in a joint venture for total consideration of $56 million (cash and stock). The first, a Canadian distributor and installer of geosynthetic products expanded the geographic scope and capabilities of our Geo Components business. The second is a U.S. manufacturer of surface-critical bent tube components which supports the private-label finished seating strategy in our Work Furniture business. The third is a U.S. producer of rebond carpet underlay which added to our production capacity and expanded the geographic footprint in our Flooring Products business. Finally, we acquired the remaining 20% of an Asian joint venture in our Work Furniture business.

In 2018, we acquired three businesses for total consideration of $109 million. The first is Precision Hydraulic Cylinders (PHC), a leading global manufacturer of engineered hydraulic cylinders primarily for the materials handling market. The second and third are both operations in our Geo Components business: a small producer of geo components, and a manufacturer and distributor of innovative home and garden products that can be found at many major retailers. 

In 2019, we acquired two businesses for total consideration of $1.27 billion. In January 2019, we acquired ECS, a leader in the production of proprietary specialized foam used primarily for the bedding and furniture industries, for total consideration of approximately $1.25 billion. In December 2019, we acquired a small manufacturer and distributor of geosynthetic fabrics, grids and erosion control products in our Geo Components business unit.

Additional details about acquisitions can be found in Note S to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117.

Pay Dividends

Dividends Paid-2017 $186 million, 2018 $194 million, 2019 $205 million; Dividends Declared-2017 $1.42, 2018 $1.50, 2019 $1.58 

Dividends are the primary means by which we return cash to shareholders. The cash requirement for dividends in 2020 should approximate $220 million.

Our targeted dividend payout ratio is approximately 50% of adjusted EPS (which excludes special items such as significant tax law impacts, impairment charges, restructuring-related charges and gains from sales of assets or businesses). Continuing our long track record of increasing the dividend remains a high priority. In 2019, we increased the quarterly dividend by $.02, or 5.3%, to $.40 per share. 2019 marked the Company's 48th consecutive annual dividend increase, a record that only ten S&P 500 companies currently exceed. Leggett & Platt is proud of its dividend record and plans to extend it. 

43
PART II

Repurchase Stock

 Stock Repurchases, net-2017 $155 million, 2018 $108 million, 2019 $7 million 

Share repurchases are the other means by which we return cash to shareholders. During the last three years, we repurchased a total of 7 million shares of our stock and issued 5 million shares (through employee benefit plans and stock option exercises), reducing outstanding shares by 1%. In 2019, we repurchased 700,000 shares (at an average price of $44.20) and issued 2 million shares. 

Our long-term priorities for use of cash remain: fund organic growth, pay dividends, fund strategic acquisitions, and repurchase stock with available cash. With the increase in leverage from our acquisition of ECS, as previously discussed, we are prioritizing debt repayment after funding organic growth and dividends, and as a result, are temporarily limiting share repurchases and controlling the pace of acquisition spending. We have been authorized by the Board to repurchase up to 10 million shares each year, but we have established no specific repurchase commitment or timetable.

44
PART II

Capitalization 

This table presents key debt and capitalization statistics at the end of the three most recent years. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 These rates include current maturities, but exclude commercial paper to reflect the averages of outstanding debt with scheduled maturities. The rates also include amortization of interest rate swaps.

2 The unused committed credit amount is based on our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program which, at the end of 2017 and 2018, had $800 million of borrowing capacity. In January 2019, we expanded the size of our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion and correspondingly increased permitted borrowings, subject to covenant restrictions, under our commercial paper program primarily to finance the ECS transaction.

In November 2017, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes that mature in 2027. The notes bear interest at a rate of 3.5% per year, with interest payable semi-annually beginning on May 15, 2018. The net proceeds of these notes were used to pay down commercial paper, which in turn provided borrowing capacity under our commercial paper program for general corporate purposes and the repayment or refinancing of existing indebtedness, at maturity.

In July 2018, we retired $150 million of 4.4% notes at maturity.

In January 2019, we increased the size of our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion (and increased permitted borrowings, subject to covenant restrictions, under our commercial paper program in a corresponding amount), and added additional borrowing capacity in the form of the five-year term loan facility in the amount of $500 million, all primarily to finance the ECS acquisition. We pay quarterly principal installments of $12.5 million through the maturity date of January 2024, at which time we will pay the remaining principal. Additional principal payments, including a complete early payoff, are allowed without penalty.

In March 2019, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of notes that mature in 2029. The notes bear interest at a rate of 4.4% per year, with interest payable semi-annually beginning on September 15, 2019. The net proceeds of these notes were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper indebtedness incurred to finance the ECS acquisition.

45
PART II

Commercial Paper Program

We can raise cash by issuing commercial paper through a program that is backed by our revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 13 lenders. In January 2019, we increased the size of our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1.2 billion, extended the term to 2024 and correspondingly increased permitted borrowings, subject to covenant restrictions, under our commercial paper program primarily to finance the ECS transaction. The credit facility allows us to issue letters of credit totaling up to $125 million. When we issue letters of credit under the facility, we reduce our available credit and commercial paper capacity by a corresponding amount. Amounts outstanding at year-end related to our commercial paper program were: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The average and maximum amounts of commercial paper outstanding during 2019 were $399 million and $924 million, respectively. During the fourth quarter, the average and maximum amounts outstanding were $181 million and $216 million, respectively. At year end, we had no letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility, but we had issued $42 million of stand-by letters of credit under other bank agreements to take advantage of better pricing. Over the long term and subject to our capital needs, market conditions and alternative capital market opportunities, we expect to maintain the indebtedness under the program by continuously repaying and reissuing the commercial paper notes until such time as the outstanding notes are replaced with long-term debt. We view the notes as a source of long-term funds and have classified the borrowings under the commercial paper program as long-term borrowings on our balance sheet. We have the intent to roll over such obligations on a long-term basis and the ability to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis as discussed above. However, we expect that our commercial paper balances may increase or decrease in the short term due to acquisition or divestiture activity and our working capital needs. 

With cash on hand, operating cash flow, our commercial paper program, and our ability to obtain debt financing, we believe we have sufficient funds available to repay maturing debt, as well as support our ongoing operations, pay dividends, fund future growth, and repurchase stock. However, with the acquisition of ECS, we intend to temporarily realign our capital allocation priorities to limit share repurchases and control the pace of acquisition spending in order to focus on deleveraging to our long-term leverage target. 

Our revolving credit facility and certain other long-term debt obligations contain restrictive covenants, of which we are comfortably in compliance. The covenants limit: (a) as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, the leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA (each as defined in the revolving credit facility) for the trailing four fiscal quarters must not exceed 4.25 to 1.00, with a single step-down to 3.50 to 1.00 on March 31, 2020, (b) the amount of total secured debt to 15% of our total consolidated assets, and (c) our ability to sell, lease, transfer, or dispose of all or substantially all of total consolidated assets.

 At December 31, 2019, we had approximately $1.1 billion unused borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility. As consolidated EBITDA changes, our effective borrowing capacity increases or decreases. However, the credit facility permits additional borrowing for acquisitions based on the EBITDA of the business being acquired. When the leverage ratio is reduced to 3.50 to 1.00 on March 31, 2020, we anticipate our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility, for non-acquisition purposes, will be reduced. Based on our consolidated EBITDA and debt levels at December 31, 2019, reducing the leverage ratio from 4.25 to 1.00 to 3.50 to 1.00 would have reduced our borrowing capacity from $1.1 billion to $575 million. However, this may not be indicative of the actual borrowing capacity at March 31, 2020, which may be materially different depending on our consolidated EBITDA and debt levels at that time. The Company believes that it has, and will continue to have, access to adequate liquidity and borrowing capacity to meet its needs. For more information about long-term debt, please see Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 93. 

46
PART II

Accessibility of Cash

At December 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $248 million primarily invested in interest-bearing bank accounts and in bank time deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Substantially all of these funds are held in the international accounts of our foreign operations. 

During 2019, we were able to utilize $279 million of foreign entity cash to reduce debt. 

If we were to immediately bring back all our foreign cash to the U.S. in the form of dividends, we would pay foreign withholding taxes of approximately $18 million. Due to capital requirements in various jurisdictions, approximately $49 million of this cash was inaccessible for repatriation at year end. In 2018 and 2017, we brought back cash of $314 million and $116 million, respectively, at little to no added tax cost.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following table summarizes our future contractual cash obligations and commitments at December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The long-term debt payment schedule presented above could be accelerated if we were not able to make the principal and interest payments when due. We are focused on deleveraging by temporarily limiting share repurchases, controlling the pace of acquisition spending, and using operating cash flow to repay debt.

2 Purchase obligations primarily include open short-term (30-120 days) purchase orders that arise in the normal course of operating our facilities.

3 Interest payments assume debt outstanding remains constant with amounts at December 31, 2019 and at rates in effect at the end of the year. 

4 Other obligations include our net reserves for tax contingencies in the "More Than 5 Years" column because these obligations are long-term in nature and actual payment dates cannot be specifically determined. Other obligations also include a $33 million long-term deemed repatriation tax payable and our current estimate of $2 million for minimum contributions to defined benefit pension plans.

5 Less Than 1 Year (due in 2020), 1-3 Years (due in 2021 and 2022), 3-5 Years (due in 2023 and 2024) and More Than 5 Years (due in 2025 and beyond).

47
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. To do so, we must make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and disclosures. If we used different estimates or judgments our financial statements would change, and some of those changes could be significant. Our estimates are frequently based upon historical experience and are considered by management, at the time they are made, to be reasonable and appropriate. Estimates are adjusted for actual events, as they occur.

“Critical accounting estimates” are those that are: (a) subject to uncertainty and change, and (b) of material impact to our financial statements. Listed below are the estimates and judgments which we believe could have the most significant effect on our financial statements.

We provide additional details regarding our significant accounting policies in Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 73.

Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Goodwill    

Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually as of June 30 and as triggering events occur.

Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment as of June 30 using either a quantitative or qualitative analysis at the reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments: 

(a) The qualitative assessment begins with determination of whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value before applying a two-step goodwill impairment model.

(b) The quantitative analysis utilizes a two-step goodwill impairment model.

Judgment is required in the two-step model. We estimate fair value using a combination of:

(a) A discounted cash flow model that contains uncertainties related to the forecast of future results, as many outside economic and competitive factors can influence future performance. Revenue growth, cost of sales, and appropriate discount rates are the most critical estimates in determining enterprise values using the cash flow model.

(b) The market approach using price to earnings ratios for comparable publicly traded companies that operate in the same or similar industry and with characteristics similar to the reporting unit. Judgment is required to determine the appropriate price to earnings ratio. 

The June 2019 review indicated no goodwill impairments. However, three of our reporting units had fair values in excess of carrying value of less than 100% as discussed in Note D to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 81. At December 31, 2019, we had $1.4 billion of goodwill. 

We had no goodwill impairments in 2019 or 2018 and recognized goodwill impairments of $1 million in 2017 associated with the exit of two small operations that were evaluated for impairment when they were classified as held for sale. 

Information regarding material assumptions used to determine if a goodwill impairment exists can be found in Note A and Note D to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 73 and 81, respectively.

We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. If we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible.

48
PART II

Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Other Long-lived Assets    

Other long-lived assets are tested for recoverability at year-end and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.

For other long-lived assets we estimate fair value at the lowest level where cash flows can be measured (usually at a branch level).

Impairments of other long-lived assets usually occur when major restructuring activities take place, or we decide to discontinue product lines completely.

Our impairment assessments have uncertainties because they require estimates of future cash flows to determine if undiscounted cash flows are sufficient to recover carrying values of these assets.

For assets where future cash flows are not expected to recover carrying value, fair value is estimated which requires an estimate of market value based upon asset appraisals for like assets. 

These impairments are unpredictable. Impairments did not exceed $8 million per year in any of the last three years.

At December 31, 2019, net property, plant and equipment was $831 million, net intangible assets other than goodwill was $764 million, and operating right-of-use assets was $159 million.

Inventory Reserves    

We reduce the carrying value of inventories to reflect an estimate of net realizable value for slow-moving (i.e., not selling very quickly) and obsolete inventory.

Generally a reserve is required when we have more than a 12-month supply of the product.

The calculation also uses an estimate of the ultimate recoverability of items identified as slow-moving based upon historical experience. 

If we have had no sales of a given product for 12 months, those items are generally deemed to be obsolete with no value and are written down completely.

Finally, costs for approximately 40% of our inventories (consisting primarily of our domestic steel related inventories) are determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, which produces a cost that is lower than net realizable value. 

Our inventory reserve contains uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions about the value of products that are obsolete or slow-moving.

Changes in customer behavior and requirements can cause inventory to become obsolete or slow-moving. Restructuring activity and decisions to narrow product offerings also impact the estimated net realizable value of inventories.

At December 31, 2019, the reserve for obsolete and slow-moving inventory was $25 million (approximately 4% of inventories). This is consistent with the reserves at December 31, 2018 and 2017, representing approximately 4% of inventories. 

Although additions to inventory reserves in 2019 and 2018 were impacted by restructuring activities (see Note F to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 84), our reserve balances as a percentage of period-end inventory have remained consistent, and we do not expect significant changes to our historical obsolescence levels. 

49
Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Workers’ Compensation    

We are substantially self-insured for costs related to workers’ compensation, and this requires us to estimate the liability associated with this obligation. Our estimates of self-insured reserves contain uncertainties regarding the potential amounts we might have to pay. We consider a number of factors, including historical claim experience, demographic factors, and potential recoveries from third party insurance carriers. Over the past five years, we have incurred, on average, $8 million annually for costs associated with workers’ compensation. Average year-to-year variation over the past five years has been approximately $1 million. At December 31, 2019, we had accrued $30 million to cover future self-insurance liabilities.

Credit Losses    

For accounts and notes receivable, we estimate a bad debt reserve for the amount that will ultimately be uncollectible.

When we become aware of a specific customer’s potential inability to pay, we record a bad debt reserve for the amount we believe may not be collectible.

Our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount uncollectible based upon an evaluation of several factors such as the length of time that receivables are past due, the financial health of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience.

Our customers are diverse and many are small-to-medium sized companies, with some being highly leveraged. Bankruptcy can occur with some of these customers relatively quickly and with little warning.

In cases where a customer’s payment performance or financial condition begins to deteriorate, we tighten our credit limits and terms and make appropriate reserves when deemed necessary. Certain of our customers have from time to time experienced bankruptcy, insolvency and/or an inability to pay their debts to us as they come due. If our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us timely or at all, they may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise, or we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extend financing terms with these customers. 

A significant change in the financial status of a large customer could impact our estimates.

We believe we have established adequate reserves on our riskier customer accounts. Although we recorded a $16 million reserve ($15 million on a note receivable and $1 million for a trade accounts receivable) in 2018 for a customer in our Residential Products segment that is experiencing financial difficulty and liquidity problems, we have experienced favorable trends in the number of trade accounts that require a reserve over the last few years. 

The average annual amount of bad debt expense associated with customer trade accounts receivable was less than $2 million (significantly less than 1% of annual net sales) over the last three years. At December 31, 2019, our allowances for doubtful trade accounts receivable were $9 million (less than 2% of our trade receivables of $574 million).

50
PART II

Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Pension Accounting    

For our pension plans, we must estimate the cost of benefits to be provided (well into the future) and the current value of those benefit obligations.

In 2017, we completed an annuity purchase transaction for pensioners that were currently receiving a small monthly benefit. Please see Note N to our Consolidated Financial Statements on page 106.

The pension liability calculation contains uncertainties because it requires management's judgment. Significant assumptions used to measure our pension liabilities and pension expense annually include:

 - the discount rate used to calculate the present value of future benefits

 - an estimate of expected return on pension assets based upon the mix of investments held (bonds and equities)

 - certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality. Mortality assumptions represent our best estimate of the duration of future benefit payments at the measurement date. These estimates are based on each plan's demographics and other relevant facts and circumstances

 - the rate of salary increases where benefits are based on earnings

Each 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate increases pension expense by $.6 million and increases the plans’ benefit obligation by $8.5 million.

A 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense by $.4 million, but have no effect on the plans’ funded status.

Contingencies    

We evaluate various legal, environmental, and other potential claims against us to determine if an accrual or disclosure of the contingency is appropriate. If it is probable that an ultimate loss will be incurred and reasonably estimable, we accrue a liability for the estimate of the loss. Our disclosure and accrual of loss contingencies (i.e., losses that may or may not occur) contain uncertainties because they are based on our assessment of the probability that the expenses will actually occur, and our reasonable estimate of the likely cost. Our estimates and judgments are subjective and can involve matters in litigation, the results of which are generally unpredictable. 

Legal contingencies are related to numerous lawsuits and claims described in Note U to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 121. 

During the three-year period ended December 31, 2019, we recorded expense of $5 million ($3 million for continuing operations and $2 million in discontinued operations).

There were no material uninsured individual claims during the three-year period ending December 31, 2019.

51
Description 

Judgments and

Uncertainties 

Effect if Actual Results

Differ From Assumptions

Income Taxes    

In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates of the tax treatment of many transactions, even though the ultimate tax outcome may remain uncertain for some time. These estimates become part of the annual income tax expense reported in our financial statements. Subsequent to year end, we finalize our tax analysis and file income tax returns. Tax authorities periodically audit these income tax returns and examine our tax filing positions, including (among other things) the timing and amounts of deductions, and the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If necessary, we adjust income tax expense in our financial statements in the periods in which the actual outcome becomes more certain. 

Our tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures related to our various filing positions.

Our effective tax rate is also impacted by changes in tax laws, the current mix of earnings by taxing jurisdiction, and the results of current tax audits and assessments. In December 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), which resulted in significant changes to U.S. federal income tax law affecting the Company. Current and expected impacts are based on our ongoing analysis of the legislation, including authoritative guidance which has been issued such as final and newly proposed regulations. 

At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had $15 million and $14 million, respectively, of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet primarily related to net operating losses and other tax carryforwards. The ultimate realization of these deferred tax assets is dependent upon the amount, source, and timing of future taxable income. In cases where we believe it is more likely than not that we may not realize the future potential tax benefits, we establish a valuation allowance against them.  

Changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws could impact assumptions related to the taxation and repatriation of certain foreign earnings.

Audits by various taxing authorities continue as governments look for ways to raise additional revenue. Based upon past audit experience, we do not expect any material changes to our tax liability as a result of this audit activity; however, we could incur additional tax expense if we have audit adjustments higher than recent historical experience. 

The likelihood of recovery of net operating losses and other tax carryforwards has been closely evaluated and is based upon such factors as the time remaining before expiration, viable tax planning strategies, and future taxable earnings expectations. We believe that appropriate valuation allowances have been recorded as necessary. However, if earnings expectations or other assumptions change such that additional valuation allowances are required, we could incur additional tax expense. Likewise, if fewer valuation allowances are needed, we could incur reduced tax expense.

52
PART II

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53
CONTINGENCIES

Litigation

Accruals for Probable Losses

We are exposed to litigation contingencies that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we deny liability in all currently threatened or pending litigation proceedings in which we are or may be a party and believe we have valid bases to contest all claims made against us, we have recorded a litigation contingency accrual for our reasonable estimate of probable loss for pending and threatened litigation proceedings, in aggregate, in millions, as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 The above litigation contingency accruals do not include accrued expenses related to workers' compensation, vehicle-related personal injury, product and general liability claims, taxation issues and environmental matters, some of which may contain a portion of litigation expense. However, any litigation expense associated with these categories is not anticipated to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For more information regarding accrued expenses, see Note J of the Consolidated Financial Statements under "Accrued expenses" on page 92.

Reasonably Possible Losses in Excess of Accruals

Although there are a number of uncertainties and potential outcomes associated with all of our pending or threatened litigation proceedings, we believe, based on current known facts, that additional losses, if any, are not expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, based upon current known facts, as of December 31, 2019, aggregate reasonably possible (but not probable, and therefore not accrued) losses in excess of the accruals noted above are estimated to be $15 million, including $14 million for Brazilian value-added tax matters and $1 million for other matters. If our assumptions or analyses regarding these contingencies are incorrect, or if facts change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals (and in excess of the $15 million referenced above), which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

For more information regarding litigation contingencies, please refer to Note U of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 121, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Machinery and Hydraulic Cylinders Reporting Units' Goodwill

Fair value for our Machinery and Hydraulic Cylinders reporting units exceeded their carrying values by 12% and 29%, respectively, at our June 30, 2019 annual goodwill impairment testing date. 

Machinery sales have been adversely impacted by the rapid market shifts from traditional bedding to compressed mattresses. The goodwill associated with the Machinery reporting unit was $33 million at December 31, 2019.

We acquired the Hydraulic Cylinders business in the first quarter of 2018, and it has goodwill of $26 million at December 31, 2019. This unit is dependent upon capital spending for material handling equipment, and we have seen market softness in the industries served by this reporting unit. 

Continued negative market trends may impact future earnings. If we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments may be possible. 

54
PART II

Potential Sale of Real Estate

Although the potential sale is subject to significant conditions that may change the timing, the amount and whether the sale is completed at all, we have agreed to sell certain real estate associated with restructuring activities in the Furniture Products segment. If the sale is completed, we expect to realize a gain of up to $30 million on this transaction during 2020. 

Customer Accounts Receivable 

Bankruptcy, financial difficulties or insolvency can and has occurred with some of our customers which can impact their ability to pay their debts to us. We have extended trade credit to some of these customers in a material amount, particularly in our Bedding Group. Our bad debt reserve contains uncertainties because it requires management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables based upon the financial health and payment history of the customer, industry and macroeconomic considerations, and historical loss experience. 

Some bedding manufacturers and retailers that use or sell our products or our customers’ products may undergo restructurings or reorganizations because of financial difficulty. Also, certain of our customers have filed bankruptcy, and others, from time to time, have become insolvent and/or do not have the ability to pay their debts to us as they come due. If our customers suffer significant financial difficulty, they may be unable to pay their debts to us, they may reject their contractual obligations to us under bankruptcy laws or otherwise, or we may have to negotiate significant discounts and/or extend financing terms with these customers. Any of these risks, if realized, could adversely affect our revenues and increase our operating expenses by requiring larger provisions for bad debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

Cybersecurity Risks 

We rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. We receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing to and collections from our customers, and manage the accounting for and payment to our vendors. The Company has a formal process in place for both incident response and cybersecurity continuous improvement that includes a cross functional Cyber Oversight Committee. The Chief Information Officer (a member of the Cyber Oversight Committee) updates the Board of Directors quarterly on cyber activity, with procedures in place for interim reporting if necessary. 

Although the Company has not experienced any material cybersecurity incidents, we have enhanced our cybersecurity protection efforts over the last few years. However, even with this expanded protection, technology failures or cybersecurity breaches could still create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We cannot be certain that advances in the attacker’s capabilities will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. If these systems are interrupted or damaged by any incident or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may incur remediation costs, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information, litigation and legal costs, reputational damage, damage to our competitiveness and negative impact on stock price and long-term shareholder value.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The FASB has issued accounting guidance effective for current and future periods. See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 73 for a more complete discussion. 

55
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.