ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

33

Overview

We are a global distributor of vehicle products, including replacement parts, components and systems used in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, and specialty products and accessories to improve the performance, functionality and appearance of vehicles.

Buyers of vehicle replacement products have the option to purchase from primarily five sources: new products produced by OEMs; new products produced by companies other than the OEMs, which are referred to as aftermarket products; recycled products obtained from salvage and total loss vehicles; recycled products that have been refurbished; and recycled products that have been remanufactured. We distribute a variety of products to collision and mechanical repair shops, including aftermarket collision and mechanical products; recycled collision and mechanical products; refurbished collision products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights; and remanufactured engines and transmissions. Collectively, we refer to the four sources that are not new OEM products as alternative parts.

We are a leading provider of alternative vehicle collision replacement products and alternative vehicle mechanical replacement products, with our sales, processing, and distribution facilities reaching most major markets in the United States and Canada. We are also a leading provider of alternative vehicle replacement and maintenance products in the United Kingdom, Germany, the Benelux region (Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg), Italy, Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, and various other European countries. In addition to our wholesale operations, we operate self service retail facilities across the U.S. that sell recycled automotive products from end-of-life-vehicles. We are also a leading distributor of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada.

We are organized into four operating segments: Wholesale – North America; Europe; Specialty and Self Service. We aggregate our Wholesale – North America and Self Service operating segments into one reportable segment, North America, resulting in three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Specialty.

Our operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Please refer to the factors referred to in Forward-Looking Statements above. Due to these factors and others, which may be unknown to us at this time, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate. Accordingly, our historical results of operations may not be indicative of future performance.

Acquisitions and Investments

Since our inception in 1998, we have pursued a growth strategy through both organic growth and acquisitions. We have pursued acquisitions that we believe will help drive profitability, cash flow and stockholder value. We target companies that are market leaders, will expand our geographic presence and will enhance our ability to provide a wide array of vehicle products to our customers through our distribution network.

During 2019, we completed seven acquisitions for a total consideration of $63 million, including three wholesale businesses and one self service business in North America, and three wholesale businesses in Europe. 

On May 30, 2018, we acquired Stahlgruber, a leading European wholesale distributor of aftermarket spare parts for passenger cars, tools, capital equipment and accessories with operations in Germany, Austria, Italy, Slovenia, and Croatia with further sales to Switzerland. This acquisition expanded LKQ's geographic presence in continental Europe and serves as an additional strategic hub for our European operations. In addition, this acquisition should allow for continued improvement in procurement, logistics and infrastructure optimization. 

On July 3, 2017, we acquired four parts distribution businesses in Belgium. These companies were acquired with the objective of transforming the existing three-step distribution model in Belgium to a two-step distribution model to align with our Netherlands operations.

On November 1, 2017, we acquired the aftermarket business of Warn, a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance vehicle equipment and accessories. This acquisition expanded LKQ's presence in the specialty market and created viable points of entry into related markets. 

On April 21, 2016, we acquired PGW, a leading global distributor and manufacturer of automotive glass products. PGW’s business comprised aftermarket automotive replacement glass distribution services and automotive glass manufacturing. On March 1, 2017, we sold the automotive glass manufacturing component of PGW. Unless otherwise noted, the discussion related to PGW throughout Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to the aftermarket glass distribution operations of PGW, PGW autoglass, which is included within continuing operations. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations" in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information related to our discontinued operations. The acquisition of PGW autoglass expanded our addressable market in North America and provided distribution synergies with our existing network.

34

In October 2016, we acquired substantially all of the business assets of Andrew Page Limited ("Andrew Page"), a distributor of aftermarket automotive parts in the United Kingdom. The U.K. Competition and Markets Authority ("CMA") concluded its review of this acquisition on October 31, 2017 and required us to divest less than 10% of the acquired locations. We divested the required locations during 2018.

In addition to the significant acquisitions mentioned above, during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, we acquired various smaller businesses across our North America, Europe, and Specialty segments. 

On December 1, 2016, we acquired a 26.5% equity interest in Mekonomen AB ("Mekonomen"), the leading independent car parts and service chain in the Nordic region of Europe, offering a wide range of quality products including spare parts and accessories for cars, and workshop services for consumers and businesses. We acquired additional shares in the fourth quarter of 2018, increasing our equity interest to 26.6%. We are accounting for our interest in Mekonomen using the equity method of accounting, as our investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee.

See Note 2, "Business Combinations" and "Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our acquisitions and investments.

Sources of Revenue

We report our revenue in two categories: (i) parts and services and (ii) other. Our parts revenue is generated from the sale of vehicle products, including replacement parts, components and systems used in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, and specialty products and accessories to improve the performance, functionality and appearance of vehicles. Our service revenue is generated primarily from the sale of service-type warranties, fees for admission to our self service yards, diagnostic and repair services, and processing fees related to the secure disposal of vehicles. During the year ended December 31, 2019, parts and services revenue represented approximately 95% of our consolidated revenue. Revenue from other sources includes scrap sales, bulk sales to mechanical manufacturers (including cores), and sales of aluminum ingots and sows from our furnace operations. Other revenue will vary from period to period based on fluctuations in commodity prices and the volume of materials sold. See Note 5, "Revenue Recognition" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our sources of revenue.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, assumptions, and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, business combinations and goodwill impairment. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and our recognition of revenue. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 

Revenue Recognition

For information regarding our critical accounting policies related to revenue, refer to Note 5, "Revenue Recognition," to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Inventory Accounting

For all inventory, carrying value is recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value can be influenced by current anticipated demand. If actual demand differs from our estimates, additional reductions to inventory carrying value would be necessary in the period such determination is made.

For all of our aftermarket products, excluding our aftermarket automotive glass products, cost is established based on the average price we pay for parts; for our aftermarket automotive glass products inventory, cost is established using the first-in first-out method. Inventory cost for all of our aftermarket products includes expenses incurred for freight in and overhead costs; for items purchased from foreign companies, import fees and duties and transportation insurance are also included. Refurbished inventory cost is based upon the average price we pay for cores. The cost of our refurbished inventory also includes expenses incurred for freight in, labor and other overhead costs. Our salvage inventory cost is established based upon the price we pay for a vehicle, including auction, towing and storage fees, as well as expenditures for buying and dismantling vehicles. Inventory carrying value is determined using the average cost to sales percentage at each of our facilities and applying that percentage to the facility's inventory at expected selling prices, the assessment of which incorporates the sales probability based 

35

on a part's days in stock and historical demand. The average cost to sales percentage is derived from each facility's historical profitability for salvage vehicles. Remanufactured inventory cost is based upon the price paid for cores, and also includes expenses incurred for freight, direct manufacturing costs and overhead related to our remanufacturing operations. The cost of manufactured product inventory is established using the first-in first-out method.

Lease Accounting

On January 1, 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2016-02, "Leases" ("ASU 2016-02"), which represents the FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 842 ("ASC 842"). We adopted the new guidance using the modified retrospective transition approach by applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application with no restatement of comparative periods. The most significant impact was the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for operating leases. Refer to “Recent Accounting Pronouncements–Adoption of New Lease Standard” in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 13, "Leases” to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the adoption of the new lease standard and our critical accounting policies related to leases.

Business Combinations

We record our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting, under which the acquisition purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values. We utilize management estimates and, in some instances, independent third party valuation firms to assist in determining the fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent consideration granted. There are inherent assumptions and estimates used in developing the future cash flows and fair values of tangible and intangible assets, such as projecting revenues and profits, discount rates, income tax rates, royalty rates, customer attrition rates and other various valuation assumptions. We use various valuation methods to value property, plant and equipment. When valuing real property, we typically use the sales comparison approach for land and the income approach for buildings and building improvements. When valuing personal property, we typically use either the income or cost approach. We used the relief-from-royalty method to value trade names, trademarks, software and other technology assets, and we used the multi-period excess earnings method to value customer relationships. The relief-from-royalty method assumes that the intangible asset has value to the extent that its owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from the intangible asset. The multi-period excess earnings method is based on the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable only to the customer relationship after deducting contributory asset charges.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangibles Impairment

We are required to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually. When testing goodwill for impairment, we are required to evaluate events and circumstances that may affect the performance of the reporting unit and the extent to which the events and circumstances may impact the future cash flows of the reporting unit to determine whether the fair value of the assets exceeds the carrying value. Developing the estimated future cash flows and fair value of the reporting unit requires management's judgment in projecting revenues and profits, allocation of shared corporate costs, tax rates, capital expenditures, working capital requirements, discount rates and market multiples. Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and it is reasonably likely that assumptions and estimates can change in future periods. If these assumptions or estimates change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill.

We perform goodwill impairment tests annually in the fourth quarter and between annual tests whenever events indicate that an impairment may exist. During 2019, we did not identify any events or changes in circumstances that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying amounts. Therefore, we did not perform any impairment tests other than our annual test in the fourth quarter as of October 31, 2019.

Our goodwill impairment assessment is performed by reporting unit. A reporting unit is an operating segment, or a business one level below an operating segment (the "component" level), for which discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management. However, components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. For the purpose of aggregating our components into reporting units, we review the long-term performance of Segment EBITDA. Additionally, we review qualitative factors such as type or class of customers, nature of products, distribution methods, inventory procurement methods, level of integration, and interdependency of processes across components. Our assessment of the aggregation includes both qualitative and quantitative factors and is based on the facts and circumstances specific to the components. 

We have four operating segments: Wholesale – North America, Europe, Specialty and Self Service. Each of these operating segments consists of multiple components that have discrete financial information available that is reviewed by 

36

segment management on a regular basis. We have evaluated these components and concluded that the components that compose the Wholesale – North America, Europe, Specialty, and Self Service operating segments are economically similar and thus were aggregated into four separate reporting units for our 2019 annual goodwill impairment test. 

Our goodwill would be considered impaired if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. The fair value estimates are established using weightings of the results of a discounted cash flow methodology and a comparative market multiples approach. We believe that using two methods to determine fair value limits the chances of an unrepresentative valuation. Discount rates, growth rates and cash flow projections are the assumptions that are most sensitive and susceptible to change as they require significant management judgment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. To assess the reasonableness of the fair value estimates, we compare the sum of the reporting units’ fair values to the Company’s market capitalization and calculate an implied control premium, which is then evaluated against recent market transactions in our industry. If we were required to recognize goodwill impairments, we would report those impairment losses as part of our operating results. 

We determined no impairments existed when we performed our annual goodwill impairment testing in 2019 on all four reporting units as each of those reporting units had a fair value estimate that exceeded the carrying value by at least 25%. As of December 31, 2019, we had a total of $4.4 billion in goodwill subject to future impairment tests. 

Based on our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2018, we determined the carrying value of our Aviation reporting unit exceeded the fair value estimate by more than the carrying value, thus we recorded an impairment charge of $33 million, which represented the total carrying value of goodwill in our Aviation reporting unit. The impairment charge was due to a decrease in the fair value estimate from the prior year fair value estimate, primarily driven by a significant deterioration in the outlook for the Aviation reporting unit due to competition, customer financial issues and changing market conditions for the airplane platforms that the business services, which lowered our projected gross margin and related future cash flows. We reported the impairment charge in Impairment of net assets held for sale and goodwill on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2018. We sold the Aviation business in the third quarter of 2019.

We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We performed a quantitative impairment test in the fourth quarter as of October 31, 2019, using the relief-from-royalty method to value the Warn trademark, which is our only indefinite-lived intangible; we determined no impairment existed as the trademark had a fair value estimate which exceeded the carrying value.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

See "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information related to new accounting standards.

Financial Information by Geographic Area

See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information related to our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region.

1 LKQ Europe Program

We have undertaken the 1 LKQ Europe program to create structural centralization and standardization of key functions to facilitate the operation of the Europe segment as a single business. Under this multi-year program, we have recognized to date and expect to continue to recognize the following:

•Restructuring expenses — Non-recurring costs resulting directly from the implementation of the 1 LKQ Europe program from which the business will derive no ongoing benefit. See Note 6, “Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses” to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.

•Transformation expenses — Period costs incurred to execute the 1 LKQ Europe program that are expected to contribute to ongoing benefits to the business (e.g. non-capitalizable implementation costs related to a common ERP system). These expenses are recorded in Selling, general and administrative expenses.

•Transformation capital expenditures — Capitalizable costs for long-lived assets, such as software and facilities, that directly relate to the execution of the 1 LKQ Europe program.

Costs related to the 1 LKQ Europe program incurred to date are reflected in Selling, general and administrative expenses and Purchases of property, plant and equipment in our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 

37

Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect that future costs of the program, reflecting all three categories noted above, will range between $100 million and $125 million for the period from 2020 through 2021 with an additional $80 million to $100 million between 2022 and the projected completion date of the project in 2024.

Results of Operations—Consolidated

The following table sets forth statements of income data as a percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 

Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in revenue by category (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The growth in parts and services revenue of 5.7% represented increases in segment revenue of 11.8% in Europe (driven by the Stahlgruber acquisition in May 2018) and 0.9% in North America and a decrease of 0.9% in Specialty. The decrease in other revenue of 2.3% was primarily driven by a $21 million organic decrease, largely attributable to our North America segment. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the change in revenue by segment during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018.

 Cost of Goods Sold. Cost of goods sold decreased to 61.2% of revenue in the year ended December 31, 2019 from 61.5% of revenue in the year ended December 31, 2018. Our North America segment generated a 0.6% improvement in gross margin, which was partially offset by (i) a 0.2% increase in cost of goods sold attributable to mix and (ii) an increase of 0.2% primarily due to inventory write-downs in our Europe segment. The mix impact is a result of our Stahlgruber acquisition, as the lower margin Europe segment makes up a larger percentage of the consolidated results and has a dilutive effect on the gross 

38

margin percentage. We recorded a $21 million reduction of inventory primarily due to our Europe segment related to U.K. branch consolidation and brand rationalization initiated as part of our restructuring program. See Note 6, "Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our restructuring plans. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Our selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses as a percentage of revenue increased to 28.6% in the year ended December 31, 2019 from 28.2% in the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily as a result of 0.3% and 0.2% increases from our North America and Europe segments, respectively. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018.

Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses. The following table summarizes restructuring and acquisition related expenses for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Restructuring expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily consisted of (i) $20 million related to our 2019 global restructuring program, and (ii) $14 million related to integration costs from acquisitions. 

(2)Restructuring expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily consisted of $10 million related to the integration of our acquisition of Andrew Page and $3 million related to our Specialty segment. These integration activities included the closure of duplicate facilities and termination of employees.

(3)Acquisition related expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 included costs related to completed and pending acquisitions.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 6, "Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our restructuring and integration plans. 

Impairment of Net Assets Held for Sale and Goodwill. We recorded a $47 million impairment charge on net assets held for sale for the year ended December 31, 2019. The impairment charge was primarily attributable to our North America segment. We recorded a $33 million goodwill impairment charge on the Aviation reporting unit in our North America segment in the fourth quarter of 2018. See "Net Assets Held for Sale" and "Intangible Assets" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the impairment charges. 

Depreciation and Amortization. The following table summarizes depreciation and amortization for the periods indicated (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Depreciation expense included an incremental $6 million in our Europe segment, principally due to (i) a $7 million increase in depreciation expense from our acquisition of Stahlgruber, and (ii) several individually immaterial factors that increased depreciation expense by $2 million in the aggregate, partially offset by (iii) a decrease of $3 million related to the impact of foreign currency translation, primarily due to decreases in the euro and pound sterling exchange rates during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period. Depreciation expense 

39

also included an incremental $6 million in our North America segment, primarily due to capital expenditures related to new warehouse openings and upgrades to our existing information technology infrastructure.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Expense, Net. The following table summarizes the components of the change in other expense, net (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)The increase in interest income and other income, net primarily consisted of (i) a $12 million non-recurring gain related to resolution of an acquisition related matter in the fourth quarter of 2019, (ii) a $5 million fair value loss recorded during 2018 related to a preferential rights issue to subscribe for new shares at a discounted share price for our equity method investment in Mekonomen; see Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information, (iii) $3 million of proceeds received in the first quarter of 2019 related to an insurance settlement in our North America segment, (iv) a $2 million non-recurring impairment loss recorded during the second quarter of 2018 related to our Andrew Page operation, and (v) several individually immaterial factors that increased interest and other income by $2 million in the aggregate.

Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 27.2%, compared to 25.7% for the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to the impact of a favorable discrete item of $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, reflecting an adjustment to the Tax Act transition tax. We did not have a similar benefit in 2019, thus creating an increase of 1.4% on the annual tax rate. The increase was also partially attributable to the impact of a favorable discrete item of approximately $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, for excess tax benefits from stock-based payments; there were $3 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based payments for the year ended December 31, 2019 for an unfavorable year over year impact of 0.3%. See Note 15, "Income Taxes" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.

Equity in (Losses) Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries. Equity in (losses) earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily related to our investment in Mekonomen. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges of $40 million and $71 million, respectively, related to our investment in Mekonomen. See "Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the impairment charges. Excluding the impairment charges, we recorded equity in earnings of $9 million and $7 million related to our investment in Mekonomen for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

Foreign Currency Impact. We translate our statements of income at the average exchange rates in effect for the period. Relative to the rates used during the year ended December 31, 2018, the Czech koruna, euro, pound sterling and Canadian dollar rates used to translate the 2019 statements of income decreased by 5%, 5%, 4% and 2%, respectively. The negative translation effect of the change in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar combined with the negative impact of realized and 

40

unrealized currency gains and losses for the year ended December 31, 2019 resulted in a $0.03 negative effect on diluted earnings per share relative to the prior year period.

Net Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations. We recorded net income of $2 million and a net loss of $4 million from discontinued operations during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.

Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Continuing and Discontinued Noncontrolling Interest. Net (loss) income attributable to continuing noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2019 was comparable to the prior year period, due to (i) a $2 million decrease in our North America segment, as we allocated a loss of $1 million to the noncontrolling interest of an immaterial subsidiary during the year ended December 31, 2019, which was offset by (ii) a $2 million increase related to the noncontrolling interest of subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Stahlgruber acquisition. Net income attributable to discontinued noncontrolling interest was $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and related to the Stahlgruber Czech Republic wholesale business. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this business. 

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in revenue by category (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The change in parts and services revenue of 22.0% represented increases in segment revenue of 6.5% in North America, 43.4% in Europe and 13.2% in Specialty. Organic growth in parts and services revenue on a per day basis was 4.1% as there was one additional selling day in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase in other revenue of 21.8% was primarily driven by a $108 million organic increase, largely attributable to our North America segment. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the change in revenue by segment during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017. 

 Cost of Goods Sold. Cost of goods sold increased to 61.5% of revenue in the year ended December 31, 2018 from 61.0% of revenue in the year ended December 31, 2017. Cost of goods sold increased 0.4% and 0.3% as a result of our Europe and North America segments, respectively. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Our SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue increased to 28.2% in the year ended December 31, 2018 from 27.9% in the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily as a result of a 0.2% increase from our North America segment. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017.

Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses. The following table summarizes restructuring and acquisition related expenses for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Restructuring expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily consisted of $10 million related to the integration of our acquisition of Andrew Page and $3 million related to our Specialty segment. These integration activities included the closure of duplicate facilities and termination of employees.

41

(2)Restructuring expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 included $2 million, $2 million, and $1 million related to the integration of acquired businesses in our North America, Specialty, and Europe segments, respectively. These integration activities included the closure of duplicate facilities and termination of employees.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 6, "Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our restructuring and integration plans. 

Impairment of Net Assets Held for Sale and Goodwill. We recorded a $33 million goodwill impairment charge on the Aviation reporting unit in the fourth quarter of 2018. See "Intangible Assets" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," for further information.

Depreciation and Amortization. The following table summarizes depreciation and amortization for the periods indicated (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The increase in depreciation expense primarily reflected an increase of $17 million in our Europe segment, composed of (i) $10 million of incremental depreciation expense from our acquisition of Stahlgruber, (ii) a $3 million increase due to a measurement period adjustment recorded in the year ended December 31, 2017 related to our valuation procedures for our acquisition of Rhiag that reduced depreciation expense, and (iii) $3 million of incremental depreciation expense from our acquisitions of aftermarket parts distribution businesses in Belgium and Poland in the third quarter of 2017. Depreciation expense also increased by $2 million related to the impact of foreign currency translation, primarily due to increases in the pound sterling, euro, and Czech koruna exchange rates during 2018 compared to the prior year. 

(2)The increase in amortization expense primarily reflected (i) an increase of $37 million from our acquisition of Stahlgruber, and (ii) an increase of $4 million from our acquisition of Warn, partially offset by (iii) a $7 million decrease due to our 2016 acquisitions of Rhiag and PGW, which had higher amortization expense in 2017 compared to 2018 as a result of accelerated amortization on the customer relationship intangible assets.

Other Expense, Net. The following table summarizes the components of the year-over-year increase in other expense, net (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Additional interest primarily related to (i) a $38 million increase resulting from higher outstanding debt during 2018 compared to the prior year (including the borrowings under our Euro Notes (2026/28)), (ii) a $5 million increase from higher interest rates on borrowings under our senior secured credit agreement compared to the prior year, and (iii) a $2 

42

million increase from foreign currency translation, primarily related to an increase in the euro exchange rate during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017.

(2)Over the past three years, we have completed several European acquisitions that resulted in gains on bargain purchase. In 2018, newly recorded gains and adjustments related to preliminary gains decreased relative to the prior year amount.

(3)The increase in interest income and other income, net primarily consisted of (i) a $6 million increase in foreign currency losses, (ii) a $5 million fair value loss recorded during 2018 related to a preferential rights issue to subscribe for new shares at a discounted share price for our equity method investment in Mekonomen; see Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information, and (iii) a non-recurring $4 million gain recorded in 2017 due to a decrease in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. 

Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 25.7% for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 30.7% for the year ended December 31, 2017. The following table summarizes the components of our provision for income taxes for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excluding the impact of discrete items, prior to the enactment of the Tax Act our recurring annual effective tax rate was approximately 35%. Largely due to the reduction in the U.S. federal tax rate to 21%, we estimated the rate to be approximately 27%. 

(2)Represents a discrete item for excess tax benefits received upon the exercise of stock options or vesting of RSUs.

(3)The 2017 amount represented the provisional estimate of the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the Tax Act which reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate. There were no adjustments to the revaluation recorded in 2018; the accounting for this item is complete.

(4)The 2017 amount represented the provisional estimate of the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017 as a result of the Tax Act. In 2018, we recognized a $10 million favorable adjustment to the Tax Act transition tax provisional estimate; the accounting for this item is complete. 

For further discussion of the Tax Act, see Note 15, "Income Taxes," included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Equity in (Losses) Earnings of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries. Equity in (losses) earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 primarily related to our investment in Mekonomen. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded $71 million in other-than-temporary impairments related to our investment in Mekonomen. See Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the impairment charges. The impairment charges are excluded from our calculation of Segment EBITDA. See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our reconciliation of Net Income to Segment EBITDA. Excluding the impairment charges, we recorded equity in earnings of $7 million during each of the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 related to our investment in Mekonomen.

Foreign Currency Impact. We translate our statements of income at the average exchange rates in effect for the period. Relative to the rates used during the year ended December 31, 2017, the Czech koruna, euro, and pound sterling rates used to translate the 2018 statements of income increased by 7%, 5%, and 4%, respectively. The translation effect of the change in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar and realized and unrealized currency losses for the year ended December 31, 2018 resulted in a $0.02 positive effect on diluted earnings per share from continuing operations relative to the prior year.

43

Net Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations. We recorded net losses from discontinued operations of $4 million and $7 million during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Discontinued operations represents the automotive glass manufacturing business of PGW, which we sold on March 1, 2017. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 

Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Continuing and Discontinued Noncontrolling Interest. Net (loss) income attributable to continuing noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased $7 million from 2017 due to (i) a $5 million increase in our North America segment, as we allocated a loss of $4 million to the noncontrolling interest of an immaterial subsidiary during the year ended December 31, 2017, and (ii) a $2 million increase related to the noncontrolling interest of subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Stahlgruber acquisition.

Results of Operations—Segment Reporting

We have four operating segments: Wholesale – North America, Europe, Specialty and Self Service. Our Wholesale – North America and Self Service operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment, North America, because they possess similar economic characteristics and have common products and services, customers, and methods of distribution. Therefore, we present three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Specialty.

We have presented the growth of our revenue and profitability in our operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. The constant currency presentation, which is a non-GAAP measure, excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our growth and profitability, consistent with how we evaluate our performance, as this statistic removes the translation impact of exchange rate fluctuations, which are outside of our control and do not reflect our operational performance. Constant currency revenue and Segment EBITDA results are calculated by translating prior year revenue and Segment EBITDA in local currency using the current year's currency conversion rate. This non-GAAP financial measure has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Our use of this term may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by other issuers due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. In addition, not all companies that report revenue or profitability on a constant currency basis calculate such measures in the same manner as we do, and accordingly, our calculations are not necessarily comparable to similarly-named measures of other companies and may not be appropriate measures for performance relative to other companies. 

The following table presents our financial performance, including third party revenue, total revenue and Segment EBITDA, by reportable segment for the periods indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The key measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by our chief operating decision maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, is Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA includes revenue and expenses that are controllable by the segment. Corporate 

44

general and administrative expenses are allocated to the segments based on usage, with shared expenses apportioned based on the segment's percentage of consolidated revenue. We calculate Segment EBITDA as EBITDA excluding restructuring and acquisition related expenses (which includes restructuring expenses recorded in Cost of goods sold), change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities, other gains and losses related to acquisitions, equity method investments or divestitures, equity in losses and earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries, and impairment charges. EBITDA, which is the basis for Segment EBITDA, is calculated as net income, less net income (loss) attributable to continuing and discontinued noncontrolling interest, excluding discontinued operations and discontinued noncontrolling interest, depreciation, amortization, interest (which includes gains and losses on debt extinguishment) and income tax expense. See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a reconciliation of total Segment EBITDA to net income.

Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 

North America

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our North America segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)The $21 million year over year organic decrease in other revenue primarily related to (i) a $67 million decrease in revenue from scrap steel and other metals primarily related to lower prices, partially offset by increased volumes, and (ii) a $12 million decrease in core revenue primarily related to decreased volumes, partially offset by (iii) a $62 million increase in revenue from precious metals (platinum, palladium and rhodium) primarily due to higher prices.

(3)Acquisition related growth in 2019 reflected revenue from our acquisitions of seven wholesale businesses and one self service business from the beginning of 2018 through the one-year anniversary of the acquisitions, partially offset by the disposal of our aviation business in the third quarter of 2019.

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $53 million, or 8.0%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period. Sequential decreases in scrap steel prices in our salvage and self service operations had an unfavorable impact of $23 million on North America Segment EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to a $5 million favorable impact for the year ended December 31, 2018. This unfavorable impact resulted from the decrease in scrap steel prices between the date we purchased a vehicle, which influences the price we pay for a vehicle, and the date we scrapped a vehicle, which influences the price we receive for scrapping a vehicle. The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our North America segment:

45

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The increase in gross margin primarily reflected favorable impacts of 1.3% from our wholesale operations and 0.3% from the disposal of our aviation business in the third quarter of 2019, partially offset by several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.3% in the aggregate. The increase in wholesale gross margin was primarily attributable to ongoing margin improvement initiatives and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact from higher prices of precious metals (platinum, palladium and rhodium) compared to the prior year period.

(2)The increase in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily related to a 0.4% increase in facility expenses principally due to higher expenses in rent related to expansions and renewals. 

(3)The decrease in other expense, net and net income attributable to continuing noncontrolling interest was due to several individually immaterial factors that had a favorable impact of 0.2% in the aggregate.

Europe

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Europe segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Parts and services organic revenue increased for the year ended December 31, 2019, mainly driven by our Eastern European and U.K. operations, which had low single-digit growth rates. Softer economic conditions across the continent continued to have a negative impact on revenue growth, most notably in Germany and Italy.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $31 million, or 7.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period. Our Europe Segment EBITDA included a negative year over year impact of $21 million related to the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars at lower exchange rates than those experienced during the year ended December 31, 2018. On a constant currency basis (i.e. excluding the translation impact), Segment EBITDA increased by $53 million, or 12.4%, compared to the prior year. Refer to the Foreign Currency Impact discussion within the Results of Operations–Consolidated section above for further detail regarding foreign currency impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Europe segment:

46

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)Gross margin increased primarily due to (i) a 0.4% favorable impact related to an increase in supplier rebates as a result of centralized procurement for our Europe segment and (ii) a 0.3% increase in our U.K. operations primarily as a result of decreased costs related to the national distribution facility, primarily due to expenses related to temporary service issues in 2018 that did not reoccur in 2019, as well as decreased inventory reserves, partially offset by (iii) a 0.3% unfavorable impact related to our Benelux and Italy operations, principally due to higher inventory write-offs and lower prices, and (iv) several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.2% in the aggregate.

(2) The increase in segment operating expenses was primarily due to (i) a 0.4% increase in personnel expenses principally as a result of the negative leverage effect and wage inflation due to low unemployment partially offset by a decrease from other personnel-related costs, including salaries and wages and non-incentive benefits, primarily due to reduced headcount, and (ii) a 0.2% increase in transformation expenses related to the 1 LKQ Europe program.

Specialty

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Specialty segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The organic decline in parts and services revenue was driven by lower year over year wholesale drop ship sales largely due to supplier policy changes restricting our ability to sell to certain online retailers; as well as decreased sales volumes in our Canada operations compared to the prior year period, primarily due to softening economic conditions. This organic decline was partially offset by modest growth in both our automotive and RV businesses in the U.S., largely due to expansion of our product line coverage, strong exclusive line performance, and continued roll-out of new product applications for new model year vehicles. 

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA decreased $7 million, or 4.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period. The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Specialty segment:

47

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The decrease in gross margin reflects unfavorable impacts of (i) 0.4% of higher product costs, primarily due to non-recurring benefits from supplier discounts resulting from strategic purchasing efforts in the fourth quarter of 2017, which had a favorable impact on the year ended December 31, 2018 as they were recognized over a turn of inventory, (ii) 0.4% due to unfavorable product mix in 2019, and (iii) several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.4% in the aggregate.

(2)The decrease in segment operating expenses reflects favorable impacts of (i) 0.5% in personnel costs primarily due to reduced headcount and (ii) 0.3% in freight expenses due to a decreased use of third party freight, partially offset by (iii) several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.2% in the aggregate.

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

North America

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our North America segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic growth in parts and services revenue was attributable to roughly equal impacts of favorable pricing and increased sales volumes in our wholesale operations. The volume increases were primarily driven by (i) incremental sales related to an agreement signed in December 2017 for the distribution of batteries, and (ii) to a lesser extent, severe winter weather conditions in the first quarter of 2018 compared to mild winter weather conditions in the prior year period. Organic growth in parts and services revenue for our North America segment on a per day basis was 5.3% as there was one additional selling day in 2018 compared to 2017.

(2)The $103 million increase in other revenue primarily related to (i) a $64 million increase in revenue from scrap steel and other metals primarily related to higher prices and, to a lesser extent, increased volumes, year over year, (ii) a $24 million increase in revenue from metals found in catalytic converters (platinum, palladium, and rhodium) primarily due to higher prices and, to a lesser extent, increased volumes, year over year, and (iii) a $7 million increase in core revenue primarily related to increased volumes year over year.

(3)Acquisition related growth in 2018 reflected revenue from our acquisition of ten wholesale businesses from the beginning of 2017 up to the one-year anniversary of the acquisition dates.

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $5 million, or 0.7%, in 2018 compared to the prior year. Sequential increases in scrap steel prices in our salvage and self service operations had a favorable impact of $5 million on North America Segment EBITDA during the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to a $12 million positive impact on the year ended December 31, 2017. This favorable impact resulted from the increase in scrap steel prices between the date we purchased a vehicle, which influences the price we pay for a vehicle, and the date we scrapped a vehicle, which influences the price we receive for scrapping a vehicle. The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our North America segment:

48

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The decrease in gross margin reflected unfavorable impacts of 0.3% and 0.2% from our wholesale and self service operations, respectively. The decrease in wholesale gross margin is primarily attributable to (i) a shift in our sales toward lower margin products, including batteries, compared to the prior year period, and (ii) higher car costs in our salvage operations. The decrease in self service gross margin is primarily attributable to higher car costs as a result of increases in scrap prices in the first half of the year. While higher car costs can produce more gross margin dollars, these cars tend to have a dilutive effect on the gross margin percentage as parts revenue will typically increase at a lesser rate than the rise in average car cost. Self service gross margin was negatively impacted in the second half of 2018 due to declining scrap steel prices as the higher cost vehicles were scrapped.

(2)The increase in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue primarily reflected (i) a 0.3% increase in vehicle expenses primarily due to increased vehicle rental leases to handle incremental volumes as well as increases in fuel prices, and (ii) a 0.2% increase in freight expenses due to a higher use of, and increased prices of, third party freight, partially offset by (iii) several individually immaterial factors that had a favorable impact of 0.1% in the aggregate.

(3)The increase in other expense, net and net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest was primarily due to several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.2% in the aggregate.

Europe

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Europe segment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Parts and services revenue growth for the year varied by geography. In our Eastern European operations, revenue grew in the high single digits due to both existing and new branches (we added 68 since the beginning of 2017). Our Western European operations experienced slight declines to mid-single digit growth for the year due primarily to higher volumes in the second quarter of 2018 (partly attributable to the timing of the Easter holiday) offsetting softness in the remainder of the year. While we expect to achieve lower organic growth rates in these more mature markets than in Eastern Europe, our revenue growth in 2018 was negatively impacted by competitor actions, economic conditions in certain countries, such as Italy, and warmer than normal weather conditions. Organic growth in parts and services revenue for our Europe segment on a per day basis was 2.6% as there was one additional selling day in 2018 compared to 2017.

(2)Acquisition related growth for the year ended December 31, 2018 included $1.1 billion, or 30.2%, $79 million, or 2.2%, and $72 million, or 2.0%, from our acquisitions of Stahlgruber and aftermarket parts distribution businesses in Poland and Belgium, respectively. The remainder of our acquired revenue growth included revenue from our 

49

acquisitions of 20 wholesale businesses in our Europe segment since the beginning of 2017 through the one-year anniversary of the acquisitions.

(3)Compared to the prior year, exchange rates increased our revenue growth by $137 million, or 3.8%, primarily due to the weaker U.S. dollar against the pound sterling, euro and Czech koruna during 2018 relative to 2017.

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $104 million, or 32.4%, in 2018 compared to the prior year. Our Europe Segment EBITDA included a positive year over year impact of $15 million related to the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars at higher exchange rates than those experienced during 2017. On a constant currency basis (i.e. excluding the translation impact), Segment EBITDA increased by $89 million, or 27.9%, compared to the prior year. Refer to the Foreign Currency Impact discussion within the Results of Operations - Consolidated section above for further detail regarding foreign currency impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2018. The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Europe segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)The decline in gross margin was due to (i) a 0.6% decrease related to our U.K. operations primarily as a result of incremental costs related to the national distribution facility, principally due to replenishment issues and related stock availability in the first quarter at our national distribution center and branches that led to some temporary service issues and increased labor costs to manually stock and receive product, and higher customer incentives, partially offset by increased supplier rebates, and (ii) a 0.3% net decrease due to mix related to our acquisition of an aftermarket parts distribution business in Poland during the third quarter of 2017. The unfavorable effects were partially offset by (i) a 0.4% increase in gross margin in our Benelux operations primarily due to increased supplier rebates and the ongoing move from a three-step to a two-step distribution model, and (ii) a 0.3% favorable impact related to an increase in supplier rebates as a result of centralized procurement for our Europe segment.

(2) The increase in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to a 0.4% increase in personnel expenses principally as a result of (i) negative leverage effect, as personnel costs grew at a greater rate than organic revenue, and (ii) increased headcount in our Eastern European operations as new branches were opened, as well as wage inflation due to low unemployment in the region. Additionally, a 0.2% increase in professional fees, primarily due to new information technology projects and other system enhancements, added to the unfavorable change in segment operating expenses. The unfavorable effects were partially offset by a 0.2% decrease in freight expenses due to a decreased use of third party freight in our U.K. operations.

Specialty

Third Party Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Specialty segment (in thousands):

50

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic growth in parts and services revenue was primarily due to higher volumes across both our automotive and RV businesses, largely due to expansion of our product line coverage, strong exclusive line performance, and year over year growth of new vehicle sales of pickups, sport utility vehicles and other highly accessorized vehicles. Organic growth in parts and services revenue for our Specialty segment on a per day basis was 4.2% as there was one additional selling day in 2018 compared to 2017. 

(2)Acquisition related growth in 2018 included $110 million, or 8.4%, from our acquisition of Warn through the one-year anniversary of the acquisition date. The remainder of our acquired revenue growth reflected an immaterial amount of acquired revenue from our acquisitions of three wholesale businesses from the beginning of 2017 up to the one-year anniversary of the acquisition dates.

Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $26 million, or 18.5%, in 2018 compared to the prior year. The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Specialty segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The increase in gross margin reflected favorable impacts of (i) 0.8% from our acquisition of Warn, which has a higher gross margin than our other Specialty operations, and (ii) 0.6% from our initiatives to improve gross margin. The favorable effects were partially offset by 0.2% of increased inventory write-downs as damaged and defective product was identified during our warehouse expansion projects on the West Coast and in the Southeastern U.S.

(2)The increase in segment operating expenses reflected unfavorable impacts of (i) 0.3% in personnel costs primarily due to wage inflation, increased distribution expenses driven by a decreased use of third party freight and increased delivery routes to improve service levels, as well as higher employee benefit costs, (ii) 0.2% in vehicle and fuel expenses primarily due to increased fuel prices, and (iii) by several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.1% in the aggregate.

(3)The increase in other expense, net is due to several individually immaterial factors that had an unfavorable impact of 0.2% in the aggregate.

51

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following table summarizes liquidity data as of the dates indicated (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Capacity under credit facilities includes our revolving credit facilities and our receivables securitization facility. Availability under credit facilities is reduced by our outstanding letters of credit.

We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to fund our operations and provide for expansion through both internal development and acquisitions. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and our credit facilities. We utilize our cash flows from operations to fund working capital and capital expenditures, with the excess amounts going towards funding acquisitions, paying down outstanding debt or repurchasing LKQ stock. As we have pursued acquisitions as part of our growth strategy, our cash flows from operations have not always been sufficient to cover our investing activities. To fund our acquisitions, we have accessed various forms of debt financing, including revolving credit facilities, senior notes and our receivables securitization facility.

As of December 31, 2019, we had debt outstanding and additional available sources of financing as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•U.S. Notes (2023) totaling $600 million, maturing in May 2023 and bearing interest at a 4.75% fixed rate (redeemed in full on January 10, 2020)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

From time to time, we may undertake financing transactions to increase our available liquidity, such as (i) our November 2018 amendment to our senior secured credit facility and (ii) the issuance of the Euro Notes (2026/28) in April 2018 related to the Stahlgruber acquisition. Given the long-term nature of our investment in Stahlgruber, combined with favorable interest rates, we decided to fund the acquisition primarily through long-term, fixed rate notes. We believe this approach provides financial flexibility to execute our long-term growth strategy while maintaining availability under our revolver. If we see an attractive acquisition opportunity, we have the ability to use our revolver to move quickly and have certainty of funding up to the amount of our then-available liquidity. In December 2019, we announced our intention to redeem our U.S. Notes (2023) to eliminate higher cost debt with lower interest rate borrowings on our credit facilities and cash on hand. We completed the redemption in January 2020.

52

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately $1.9 billion available under our credit facilities. Combined with approximately $523 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019, we had approximately $2.4 billion in available liquidity, an increase of $416 million over our available liquidity as of December 31, 2018. 

We believe that our current liquidity and cash expected to be generated by operating activities in future periods will be sufficient to meet our current operating and capital requirements, although such sources may not be sufficient for future acquisitions depending on their size. While we believe that we have adequate capacity, from time to time we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that additional funding, or refinancing of our credit facilities, if needed, will be available on terms attractive to us, or at all. Furthermore, any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants or higher interest costs. Our failure to raise capital if and when needed could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.

Beginning in 2019, a number of our European suppliers began participating in supply chain financing programs in select countries under which they may sell their accounts receivable to the participating financial institutions, allowing us to extend payment terms. We expect more suppliers will begin participating in supply chain financing programs in 2020. Financial institutions participate in the supply chain financing program on an uncommitted basis and can cease purchasing receivables from our suppliers at any time. These programs are at the sole discretion of both the supplier and the financial institution on terms that are negotiated between them. If the financial institutions did not continue to purchase receivables from our suppliers under these programs, the participating vendors may have a need to renegotiate their payment terms with us, which in turn could cause our borrowings under our revolving credit facility to increase.

Borrowings under the credit agreement accrue interest at variable rates which are tied to the LIBOR or the Canadian Dollar Offered Rate ("CDOR"), depending on the currency and the duration of the borrowing, plus an applicable margin rate that is subject to change quarterly based on our reported leverage ratio. We hold interest rate swaps to hedge the variable rates on a portion of our credit agreement borrowings, with the effect of fixing the interest rates on the respective notional amounts. In addition, we hold currency swaps that contain an interest rate swap component and a foreign currency forward contract component that, when combined with related intercompany financing arrangements, effectively convert variable rate U.S. dollar-denominated borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. These derivative transactions are described in Note 11, "Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. After giving effect to these contracts, the weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement at December 31, 2019 was 1.6%. Including our senior notes, our overall weighted average interest rate on borrowings was 3.0% at December 31, 2019. 

After 2021, it is unclear whether banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR, and no consensus currently exists as to what benchmark rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR. We cannot currently predict the effect of the discontinuation of, or other changes to, LIBOR or any establishment of alternative reference rates in the United States, the European Union or elsewhere on the global capital markets. The uncertainty regarding the future of LIBOR, as well as the transition from LIBOR to any alternative reference rate or rates, could have adverse impacts on our variable rate obligations that currently use LIBOR as a benchmark rate. We are in the process of evaluating our financing obligations and other contracts that refer to LIBOR. Outstanding debt under our Credit Agreement, which constitutes the most significant of our LIBOR-based debt obligations, contains provisions that address the potential discontinuation of LIBOR and facilitate the adoption of an alternate rate of interest. We do not believe that the discontinuation of LIBOR, or its replacement with an alternative reference rate or rates, will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.

Cash interest payments were $143 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, including $92 million in semi-annual interest payments on our U.S. Notes (2023), Euro Notes (2024) and Euro Notes (2026/2028). Interest payments on our Euro Notes (2024) and Euro Notes (2026/2028) are made in April and October.

We had outstanding credit agreement borrowings of $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. Of these amounts, $18 million and $9 million was classified as current maturities at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

53

The scheduled maturities of long-term obligations outstanding at December 31, 2019 are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our credit agreement contains customary covenants that impose limitations and conditions on our ability to enter into certain transactions. The credit agreement also contains financial and affirmative covenants, including limitations on our net leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all restrictive covenants under our credit agreement as of December 31, 2019. 

The following summarizes our required debt covenants and our actual ratios with respect to those covenants as calculated per the credit agreement as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The terms net leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio used in the credit agreement are specifically calculated per the credit agreement and differ in specified ways from comparable GAAP or common usage terms. 

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $523 million, of which $234 million was held by foreign subsidiaries. In general, it is our practice and intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and that position has not changed following the enactment of the Tax Act and the related imposition of the transition tax. Distributions of dividends from our foreign subsidiaries, if any, would be generally exempt from further U.S. taxation, either as a result of the new 100% participation exemption under the Tax Act, or due to the previous taxation of foreign earnings under the transition tax and the GILTI regime. We believe that we have sufficient cash flow and liquidity to meet our financial obligations in the U.S. without repatriating our foreign earnings. We may, from time to time, choose to selectively repatriate foreign earnings if doing so supports our financing or liquidity objectives.

Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018

The procurement of inventory is the largest operating use of our funds. We normally pay for aftermarket product purchases on standard payment terms or at the time of shipment, depending on the manufacturer and the negotiated payment terms. We normally pay for salvage vehicles acquired at salvage auctions and under direct procurement arrangements at the time that we take possession of the vehicles.

The following table sets forth a summary of our aftermarket and manufactured inventory procurement for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):

54

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)In North America, aftermarket purchases during the year ended December 31, 2019 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily as a result of an increased focus on inventory reduction. 

(2)In our Europe segment, the increase in purchases during the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily driven by (i) a $588 million increase attributable to incremental inventory purchases as a result of our acquisition of Stahlgruber in the second quarter of 2018, partially offset by (ii) a $79 million decrease attributable to our U.K. operations primarily due to inventory reduction efforts. There was also a decrease of $168 million in inventory purchases attributable to the decrease in the value of the euro and pound sterling in the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period.

(3)Specialty inventory purchases increased $20 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year period primarily as a result of targeted purchases to increase annual supplier rebate achievement and build stock to support our 2020 initiatives. 

The following table sets forth a summary of our global wholesale salvage and self service procurement of vehicles for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Compared to the prior year, we have increased the number of self service and "crush only" vehicles purchased in 2019 to support growth in our operations.

The following table summarizes the components of the year-over-year increase in cash provided by operating activities (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Refer to the Results of Operations – Consolidated section for further information on the increase in operating income.

55

(2)Non-cash depreciation and amortization expense increased compared to the prior year period as discussed in the Results of Operations – Consolidated section.

(3)In the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded impairment charges on net assets held for sale and goodwill, noting that the 2019 charges exceeded the prior year by $14 million. See "Net Assets Held for Sale" and "Intangible Assets" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the impairment charges. 

(4)Cash flows related to our primary working capital accounts can be volatile as the purchases, payments and collections can be timed differently from period to period. 

Inventory represented an incremental $143 million in cash inflows in 2019 as a result of deliberate inventory reduction efforts in the Europe and North America segments to reflect organic revenue conditions, as disclosed in the procurement section above. 

Accounts payable produced an incremental $81 million in cash inflows primarily due to timing effects related to our May 30, 2018 acquisition of Stahlgruber. Additionally, we increased accounts payable through extension of vendor terms in North America. The supply chain financing programs in Europe did not have a material impact on accounts payable in 2019.

Accounts receivable represented an incremental $26 million in cash inflows in 2019, primarily attributable to focus on collections in our Specialty segment and U.K. operations, which was partially offset by timing effects from the Stahlgruber acquisition, and to a lesser extent, the unwind of a receivables factoring program at Stahlgruber.

(5)Reflects a number of individually insignificant fluctuations in cash paid for other operating activities.

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $265 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to $1.5 billion of cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2018. We invested $27 million of cash, net of cash acquired, in business acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.2 billion during the year ended December 31, 2018. Property, plant and equipment purchases were $266 million in 2019 compared to $250 million in the prior year. The period over period increase in cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipment was primarily related to our Europe segment. We received $18 million of net proceeds from divestitures of assets held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2019; no such proceeds were received in 2018. 

Net cash used in financing activities totaled $601 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $883 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. We received proceeds of $1.2 billion from our issuance of the Euro Notes (2026/28) during the year ended December 31, 2018; no such proceeds were received in the current year. We repurchased $292 million of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $60 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. We also paid $21 million of debt issuance costs during 2018, primarily related to the issuance of the Euro Notes (2026/28); no such costs were incurred in 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2019, net repayments of our borrowings totaled $301 million compared to $273 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. 

We intend to continue to evaluate markets for potential growth through the internal development of distribution centers, processing and sales facilities, and warehouses, through further integration of our facilities, and through selected business acquisitions. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the costs and timing of our internal development efforts and the success of those efforts, the costs and timing of expansion of our sales and marketing activities, and the costs and timing of future business acquisitions.

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017

The following table sets forth a summary of our aftermarket and manufactured inventory procurement for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)In North America, aftermarket purchases during the year ended December 31, 2018 increased compared to the comparable prior year period to support growth across our operations. 

56

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth a summary of our global wholesale salvage and self service procurement of vehicles for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Compared to the prior year, we have increased the number of self service and "crush only" vehicles purchased in 2018 to support growth in our operations.

The following table summarizes the components of the year-over-year increase in cash provided by operating activities (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Refer to the Results of Operations - Consolidated section for further information on the increase in operating income.

(2)Non-cash depreciation and amortization expense increased compared to the prior year period as discussed in the Results of Operations - Consolidated section.

57

(3)In the fourth quarter of 2018, we recorded an impairment charge on the goodwill in our Aviation reporting unit. See "Intangible Assets" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the impairment charge.

(4)Cash flows related to our primary working capital accounts can be volatile as the purchases, payments and collections can be timed differently from period to period and can be influenced by factors outside of our control. 

(5)Includes an outflow of $116 million related to Stahlgruber, primarily resulting from the timing of the acquisition. Due to the timing of processing invoice payments after the closing date, we assumed a larger payable balance but acquired more cash at closing. However, the cash acquired at closing is reflected in the Investing section of the cash flow statement on the Acquisitions, net of cash and restricted cash acquired line.

(6)During the year ended December 31, 2018, we made a special contribution of $9 million to one of our North America pension plans. See Note 14, "Employee Benefit Plans" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our pension plans.

(7)Reflects a number of individually insignificant fluctuations in cash paid for other operating activities.

Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to $385 million of cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2017. We invested $1.2 billion of cash, net of cash acquired, in business acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $513 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. We received net proceeds from the sale of our glass manufacturing business totaling $301 million during the year ended December 31, 2017; no such proceeds were received in 2018. Property, plant and equipment purchases were $250 million in 2018 compared to $179 million in the prior year. The period over period increase in cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipment was primarily related to our North America and Europe segments. We had $28 million of proceeds from the disposals of property, plant and equipment in 2018 compared to $9 million in the prior year; the increase was primarily related to our North America segment. We invested $60 million in unconsolidated subsidiaries in 2018 compared to $8 million in the prior year, primarily due to the $48 million Mekonomen rights issue in the fourth quarter of 2018; there was no rights offering in 2017. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we received $37 million of deferred purchase price proceeds on receivables under our factoring arrangement that was acquired in our Stahlgruber acquisition; no such proceeds were received in 2017. The arrangement was subsequently terminated in December 2018. 

Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $883 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $113 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. We received proceeds of $1.2 billion from our issuance of the Euro Notes (2026/28) during the year ended December 31, 2018; no such proceeds were received in the prior year. We repurchased $60 million of our common stock during 2018 following the Board of Directors' authorization of a stock repurchase program in October 2018; we did not repurchase any common stock during 2017. We also paid $21 million of debt issuance costs during 2018, primarily related to the issuance of the Euro Notes (2026/28), compared to $4 million paid during 2017 in connection with our December 2017 amendment of our credit facilities. During the year ended December 31, 2018, net repayments of our borrowings totaled $273 million compared to $115 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, foreign exchange rates decreased cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash by $77 million, compared to an increase of $24 million in the prior year. The current year impact was primarily related to a $66 million decrease resulting from the decline in the euro exchange rate between April 9, 2018, the date we received the proceeds from the Euro Notes (2026/28), and May 30, 2018, the date we paid the cash proceeds for the Stahlgruber acquisition.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Future Commitments

Except as described below, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements or undisclosed borrowings or debt that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 303 of Regulation S-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Additionally, we do not have any synthetic leases.

As of December 31, 2019, there were letters of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $69 million. 

We guarantee the residual values for the majority of our vehicles. Had we terminated all of our operating leases subject to these guarantees at December 31, 2019, our portion of the guaranteed residual value would have totaled approximately $67 million. See Note 13, "Leases" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on leases.

In December 2019, we modified the shares of a noncontrolling interest of a subsidiary acquired in connection with the Stahlgruber acquisition and issued new redeemable shares to the minority shareholder. The new redeemable shares contain a put option for all noncontrolling interest shares at a fixed price of $24 million (€21 million) for the minority shareholder exercisable in the fourth quarter of 2023. The put option is outside the control of the Company to exercise. See "Stockholders' 

58

Equity–Noncontrolling Interest" in Note 4, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 

The following table represents our future commitments under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Our long-term debt under contractual obligations above includes interest of $581 million on the balances outstanding as of December 31, 2019. The long-term debt balance excludes debt issuance costs, as these expenses have already been paid. Interest on our senior notes, notes payable, and other long-term debt is calculated based on the respective stated rates. Interest on our variable rate credit facilities is calculated based on the weighted average rates, including the impact of interest rate swaps through their respective expiration dates, in effect for each tranche of borrowings as of December 31, 2019. Future estimated interest expense for the next year, one to three years, and three to five years is $116 million, $225 million and $164 million, respectively. Estimated interest expense beyond five years is $76 million. 

(2) Includes $614 million of U.S. Notes (2023) redeemed on January 10, 2020, inclusive of principal, an early-redemption premium and interest. Of this $614 million, $199 million is included in less than 1 year (reflecting the amount repaid with cash on hand), $105 million is included in 1-3 years (reflecting the amount repaid using borrowings under the receivables securitization facility), and $310 million is included in 3-5 years (reflecting the amount repaid using borrowings under the revolving credit facility).

(3) Interest on finance lease obligations of $11 million is included based on incremental borrowing or implied rates. Future estimated interest expense for the next year, one to three years, and three to five years is $1 million, $1 million and $1 million, respectively. Estimated interest expense beyond five years is $9 million.

(4) The operating lease payments above do not include certain tax, insurance and maintenance costs, which are also required contractual obligations under our operating leases but are generally not fixed and can fluctuate from year to year. Also, we have excluded future minimum lease payments for leases that have been signed but have not commenced as of December 31, 2019.

(5)Our purchase obligations include open purchase orders for aftermarket inventory. 

(6)Our other long-term obligations consist of (i) estimated payments for our self-insurance reserves of $97 million, (ii) outstanding estimated payments of $33 million on the repatriation of earnings as a result of the Tax Act, (iii) a total of $8 million of guaranteed dividend payments to be made in quarterly installments through January 2024 to the minority shareholder of a subsidiary acquired in connection with the Stahlgruber acquisition, and (iv) $110 million representing primarily other asset purchase commitments and payments for deferred compensation plans. 

The table above excludes amounts related to our defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2019, the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans was $225 million, and the fair value of the related plan assets was $83 million. Total expected contributions to our pension plans, including amounts that we expect to pay in benefits directly to participants, are $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Benefit payments for our funded plans will be made from plan assets, whereas benefit payments for our unfunded plans are made from cash flows from operating activities. See Note 14, "Employee Benefit Plans" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information related to our pension plans, including information related to expected benefit payments for the next 10 years and the plan assets available to satisfy those benefit payments. 

59

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK