Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The purpose of this section is to discuss and analyze our consolidated financial condition, liquidity and capital resources and results of operations for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018. For a discussion of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of our Transition Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2018, which was filed with the SEC on January 29, 2019.

This analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnote disclosures contained in this report and the following "Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information."

Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information

Statements included in this report may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements may relate, but are not limited, to projections of revenues, income or loss, development expenditures, plans for growth and future operations, competition and regulation, as well as assumptions relating to the foregoing. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted or quantified. When used in this report, the words "will," "could," "estimates," "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "plans," "intends" and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Future events and actual results could differ materially from those set forth in, contemplated by or underlying the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any results projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted or may materially and adversely affect our actual results include, but are not limited to, those set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings with the SEC.

Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are applicable only as of the date hereof. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Results of Operations

We are a diversified financial services company engaged in investment banking and capital markets, asset management and direct investing. Jefferies Group, our largest subsidiary, is the largest independent full-service global investment banking firm headquartered in the U.S. 

In the fourth quarter of 2018, we changed our fiscal year end from a calendar year basis to a fiscal year ending on November 30. Our 2018 fiscal year consists of the eleven month transition period beginning January 1, 2018 through November 30, 2018. 

21

Financial statements for 2017 continue to be presented on the basis of our previous calendar year end. Jefferies Group has a November 30 year end. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2018, because our fiscal year end was December 31, we reflected Jefferies Group in our consolidated financial statements utilizing a one month lag. In connection with our change in fiscal year end to November 30, we eliminated the one month lag utilized to reflect Jefferies Group results beginning with the fourth quarter of 2018. Therefore, our results for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018, include twelve month results for Jefferies Group and eleven months for the remainder of our results.

The following tables present a summary of our financial results.

A summary of results of operations for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes Floor brokerage and clearing fees.

22

A summary of results of operations for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes Floor brokerage and clearing fees.

23

A summary of results of operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes Floor brokerage and clearing fees.

The composition of our financial results has varied over time and we expect will continue to evolve over time. Our strategy is designed to transform Jefferies into a pure financial services firm and, as such, we are focused on the development of our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment, while we continue to realize the value of or otherwise transform our investments in Merchant Banking. The following factors and events should be considered in evaluating our financial results as they impact comparisons:

Our 2019 financial results from continuing operations were impacted by:

•A nonrecurring tax benefit of $544.6 million related to the closing of our available for sale portfolio, which triggered the realization of lodged tax benefits from earlier years;

•The special dividend of our interest in Spectrum Brands of $451.1 million, removing the investment from our Merchant Banking portfolio going forward;

•A $205.0 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our remaining 31% interest in National Beef;

•A $72.1 million pre-tax gain on the revaluation of our 70% interest in HomeFed to fair value in connection with the acquisition of the remaining common stock of HomeFed; and

•A reduction during 2019 to the estimated fair value of The We Company of $182.3 million.

Our 2018 financial results from continuing operations were impacted by:

•A $418.8 million mark-to-market decrease in the value of our investment in Spectrum Brands/HRG Group, Inc. ("HRG");

•A $221.7 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our Garcadia interests;

•A $70.9 million increase in the estimated fair value of The We Company;

•A $62.1 million impairment loss related to our investment in FXCM; and

•A $47.9 million impairment loss related to our investment in Golden Queen Mining Company, LLC ("Golden Queen").

24

Our 2017 financial results from continuing operations were impacted by:

•A non-cash $450.5 million charge related to the impact of tax reform;

•A $178.2 million pre-tax gain on the sale of Conwed Plastics;

•A $130.2 million impairment loss related to our investment in FXCM; and

•A mark-to-market increase in the value of our investment in HRG of $64.8 million.

Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management

Our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment consists of our investment in Jefferies Group. Jefferies Group was acquired on March 1, 2013 and is reflected in our 2017 consolidated financial statements utilizing a one month lag; Jefferies Group's fiscal year ends on November 30th. Jefferies Group financial data is presented in each year based on the twelve months ended November 30. A summary of results of operations for our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment comprises many business units, with many interactions and much integration among them. Business activities include the sales, trading, origination and advisory effort for various equity, fixed income, commodities, foreign exchange and advisory services. Our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment business, by its nature, does not produce predictable or necessarily recurring revenues or earnings. Our results in any given period can be materially affected by conditions in global financial markets, economic conditions generally, and our own activities and positions.

Revenues by Source

Net revenues presented for our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment include allocations of interest income and interest expense as we assess the profitability of these businesses inclusive of the net interest revenue or expense associated with the respective activities, including the net interest cost of allocated long-term debt, which is a function of the mix of each business's associated assets and liabilities and the related funding costs.

25

The following provides a summary of net revenues by source (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes net interest revenues (expenses) of $74.0 million, $8.5 million and $(58.6) million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

(2)Allocated net interest is not separately disaggregated in presenting our Investment Banking and Capital Markets results within Net Revenues by Source. This presentation is aligned to our Investment Banking and Capital Markets internal performance measurement.

(3)The amount for 2019 includes revenues of $3.1 million from our share of fees received by third party asset management companies with which we have revenue and profit share arrangements.

(4)Beginning with the first quarter of 2019, Net revenues attributed to the Investment return in our Asset Management results have been disaggregated to separately present Investment return and Allocated net interest (see footnotes 5 and 6 below). This disaggregation is intended to increase transparency and to make clearer actual Investment return. We offer third-party investors the opportunity to co-invest in our asset management funds and separately managed accounts alongside us. We believe that aggregating Investment return and Allocated net interest would obscure the Investment return by including an amount that is unique to our credit spreads, debt maturity profile, capital structure, liquidity risks and allocation methods, none of which are pertinent to the Investment returns generated by the performance of the portfolio.

(5)Includes net interest expense of $8.9 million, $8.4 million and $4.8 million for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

(6)Allocated net interest represents the allocation of long-term debt interest expense to Asset Management, net of interest income on Cash and cash equivalents and other sources of liquidity. For discussion of sources of liquidity, refer to the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section herein.

Equities Net Revenues

Equities are comprised of net revenues from:

•services provided to our clients from which we earn commissions or spread revenue by executing, settling and clearing transactions for clients;

•advisory services offered to clients;

•financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services offered to clients; and

•wealth management services, which includes providing clients access to all of our institutional execution capabilities.

In 2019, certain of our equities businesses achieved high rankings by Greenwich Associates. This includes ranking #1 in U.S. electronic trading, U.S. small and mid-cap trading, U.S. high touch sales trading and U.S., Europe, and Asia (excluding Japan) convertibles sales and trading. In addition, we ranked #1 in U.S. healthcare desk strategy from Institutional Investor. We also ranked in the top five from Greenwich Associates in U.S. research sales and ranked in the top ten from third-party market surveys in global cash equities, U.S. cash equities, U.S. options and U.K. cash equities.

26

Total equities net revenues were $774.0 million for 2019, an increase of $108.4 million, compared with $665.6 million for 2018. Equities posted record results for 2019 for overall global business across the U.S., Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Our results include records for our Europe and Asia cash equities, global electronic trading, global prime brokerage and global securities finance businesses.

Equities net revenues for 2019 increased compared with 2018 on strong performance across many of our businesses, which continue to be well-positioned with continued market share growth. The increase in our core global equities business was primarily driven by higher revenues across cash equities, electronic trading, convertibles, securities finance and prime brokerage. Results in our global cash equities businesses were primarily driven by record results in Europe and Asia. Our global electronic trading business was driven by continued growth in market share and increased trading volumes, particularly in Europe and Asia. Our global convertibles business benefited from significant growth due to the expansion of the business in London with a market-leading team and improved trading conditions. Stronger results in our prime services business, which reflects prime brokerage and securities finance, were driven by increased customer trading activity and the addition of a trading desk that provides outsourced services to clients.

The increase in our core global equities capital markets net revenues was partially offset by a decrease in our equity derivatives business, driven by a lower volatility trading environment and a decline in client activity. The increase in our global equities business also included lower losses on certain block positions in 2019 as compared with 2018. 

Fixed Income Net Revenues

Fixed income is comprised of net revenues from: 

•executing transactions for clients and making markets in securitized products, investment grade, high-yield, emerging markets, municipal and sovereign securities and bank loans, as well as foreign exchange execution on behalf of clients; and

•interest rate derivatives and credit derivatives.

Fixed income net revenues totaled $681.4 million for 2019, an increase of $121.7 million from net revenues of $559.7 million for 2018, primarily due to more active markets throughout most of the current year and improved market conditions in the U.S., as well as the expansion of certain trading teams in 2019. The increase was partially offset by lower volatility in European rates and credit markets and certain risk assets.

Revenues improved in our U.S. investment grade corporates business due to increased trading activity and increased investor demand as credit spreads tightened during 2019 compared to muted client activity and demand in 2018, while revenues in our U.S. rates business improved, as opportunities in the U.S. treasuries trading market were more present in 2019.

Revenues in our leveraged credit business were strong due to improved results from secondary trading of par loans and bonds, as well as benefiting from various trading hires. Similarly, our Asia credit business was also well positioned to benefit from new hires, extended client reach and activity throughout most of the current year.

Our global emerging markets business delivered higher net revenues in 2019 as compared with the prior year, primarily due to strong investor demand and increased volatility in certain countries. The current year also included higher revenues from our structured notes business due to higher trading and issuance volumes that benefited from a more established trading desk, as compared with the prior year. International rates revenues for 2019 declined as economic challenges and an ultra-low rate environment persisted in European countries, including continued concerns over Brexit, which resulted in limited trading opportunities. This compares with 2018 markets with higher levels of trading activity due to comparatively higher volatility. Revenues in our international securitized markets groups underperformed, as a more favorable trading environment in certain securitization businesses, primarily in Europe, was present in 2018. U.S. securitized markets businesses performance was flat year-over-year with mixed results in individual business lines.

Investment Banking Revenues

Investment banking is comprised of revenues from:

•advisory services with respect to mergers and acquisitions and restructurings and recapitalizations;

•underwriting services, which include underwriting and placement services related to corporate debt, municipal bonds, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and equity and equity-linked securities and loan syndication;

•our share of net earnings from Jefferies Group's corporate lending joint venture, Jefferies Finance; and

•securities and loans received or acquired in connection with our investment banking activities.

27

Total investment banking revenues were $1,522.1 million for 2019, 20.5% lower than 2018. Substantially all of this decrease was due to lower underwriting revenue, with the largest portion of the underwriting shortfall related to our leveraged finance business. Most of our revenue shortfall in leveraged finance was due to the overall slowdown in leveraged finance issuance across the U.S. and Europe, particularly in the single-B rated market, which is our primary market. Our advisory revenues were $767.4 million for 2019, down $52.6 million, or 6.4%, from 2018. This performance was against a backdrop of an 11% decline in industry-wide merger and acquisition fees across the U.S. and Europe during this period, according to Dealogic. Our underwriting revenues for 2019 were $769.3 million, down $320.9 million, or 29.4%, from 2018. 

During 2019, advisory transactions revenues totaled $767.4 million, including revenues from 179 merger and acquisition transactions and 16 restructuring and recapitalization transactions with an aggregate transaction value of $241.6 billion. From equity and debt underwriting activities, we generated $362.0 million and $407.3 million in revenues, respectively, for 2019. During 2019, we completed 779 public and private debt financings that raised $190.7 billion in aggregate and we completed 166 public and private equity and convertible offerings that raised $45.3 billion (139 of which we acted as sole or joint bookrunner). 

During 2018, advisory transaction revenues totaled $820.0 million, including revenues from 180 merger and acquisition transactions and 15 restructuring and recapitalization transactions with an aggregate transaction value of $193.9 billion. From equity and debt underwriting activities, we generated $454.6 million and $635.6 million in revenues, respectively, for 2018. During 2018, we completed 969 public and private debt financings that raised $270.1 billion in aggregate and we completed 193 public and private equity and convertible offerings that raised $43.3 billion (179 of which we acted as sole or joint bookrunner). 

Other investment banking revenues were a loss of $14.6 million for 2019, compared with revenues of $3.6 million for 2018. The results for 2019 include net revenues of $22.3 million from our share of the profits of the Jefferies Finance joint venture, compared to net revenues of $98.6 million for 2018. The decline in 2019 reflects volatility experienced in the leveraged loan markets throughout most of the year, which resulted in lower transaction volume as compared to 2018. The results for Jefferies Finance for 2019 also include $12.5 million in costs from refinancing its debt. Results in both years also include the amortization of costs and allocated interest expense related to the investment in the Jefferies Finance business.

Other

Other is comprised of revenues from:

• Berkadia and other strategic investments (other than Jefferies Finance);

• principal investments in private equity and hedge funds managed by third parties or related parties and that are not part of our LAM platform; and

• investments held as part of employee benefit plans, including deferred compensation plans (for which we incur an equal and offsetting amount of compensation expenses).

Net revenues from our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment's other business category totaled $58.5 million for 2019, an increase of $13.2 million compared with $45.3 million for 2018. The results in 2019 include net revenues of $88.2 million due to Jefferies Group's share of income from Berkadia, compared with net revenues of $20.0 million for 2018, reflecting two months of revenues, as Jefferies transferred its 50% interest in Berkadia to Jefferies Group on October 1, 2018. The results in both periods also include interest expenses in receipt of allocated long-term debt and mark-to-market decreases related to other strategic investments. Results in 2018 also included foreign currency gains.

Asset Management

Asset management revenues include the following:

• Management and performance fees from funds and accounts managed by us; 

• Arrangements with strategic partners, which entitle us to portions of our partners’ revenues and/or profits; and

• Investment income from capital invested in and managed by our asset management business and other asset managers.

The key components of asset management revenues are the level of assets under management and the performance return, whether on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark or hurdle. These components can be affected by financial markets, profits and losses in the applicable investment portfolios and client capital activity. Further, asset management fees vary with the nature of investment management services. The terms under which clients may terminate our investment management authority, and the requisite notice period for such termination, varies depending on the nature of the investment vehicle and the liquidity of the portfolio assets. Performance fees during 2019 and 2018 are generally recognized once a year, typically in December, at the end of the performance period to the extent that the benchmark return has been met. Performance fees during 2017 were accrued (or reversed) on a monthly basis based on measuring performance to date versus any relevant benchmark return hurdles stated in the investment management agreement.

28

The following summarizes the results of our Asset Management businesses by asset class (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The amount for 2019 includes our share of fees received by third party asset management companies with which we have revenue and profit share arrangements.

Asset management net revenues for 2019 were $76.5 million, compared with a net loss of $1.1 million in 2018. The increase was primarily due to higher investment returns, as a result of an improved performance in certain of our investments in separately managed accounts and funds and an increase in our investments in certain of these investments.

Compensation and Benefits

Compensation and benefits expense consists of salaries, benefits, commissions, annual cash compensation awards and the amortization of share-based and cash compensation awards to employees. Cash and historical share-based awards and a portion of cash awards granted to employees as part of year end compensation generally contain provisions such that employees who terminate their employment or are terminated without cause may continue to vest in their awards, so long as those awards are not forfeited as a result of other forfeiture provisions (primarily non-compete clauses) of those awards. Accordingly, the compensation expense for a portion of awards granted at year end as part of annual compensation is recorded in the year of the award.

Included in Compensation and benefits expense are share-based amortization and cash-based expense for senior executive awards, non-annual share-based and cash-based awards to other employees and certain year end awards that contain future service requirements for vesting, all of which are being amortized over their respective future service periods. In addition, the senior executive awards contain market and performance conditions.

Compensation expense related to the amortization of share-based and cash-based awards amounted to $341.4 million and $302.0 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively. Compensation and benefits as a percentage of Net revenues was 54.1% and 54.5% for 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Non-Compensation Expenses

Non-compensation expenses include floor brokerage and clearing fees, underwriting costs, technology and communications expense, occupancy and equipment rental expense, business development, professional services, bad debt provision, impairment charges, depreciation and amortization expense and other costs. All of these expenses, other than floor brokerage and clearing fees and depreciation and amortization expense, are included in Selling, general and other expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Non-compensation expenses were $1,103.8 million for 2019, an increase of $66.4 million, or 6.4%, compared with $1,037.4 million in 2018. The increase in non-compensation expenses was primarily due to higher Floor brokerage and clearings fees due to an increase in trading volumes across the equities and fixed income businesses, as well as the growth in certain asset management funds and resultant trading activity. The higher expenses also included an increase in technology and communication expenses related to costs associated with the development of various trading systems and our efforts to provide our professionals with leading digital tools to manage workflow and help better serve our clients, as well as increased market data usage costs. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased primarily due to duplicative occupancy expenses related to relocating our office space in London. Professional services expenses increased due to an increase in consulting and legal fees. The increases were partially offset by lower business development expenses and underwriting costs due to a decline in investment banking engagements and activity related to Jefferies Group's Jefferies Finance joint venture during the current year.

29

Merchant Banking

The composition of our Merchant Banking portfolio has been impacted by a number of transactions during recent years. The following chart reflects the significant components of our portfolio each year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A summary of results for Merchant Banking is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the fourth quarter of 2018, we transferred our 50% membership interest in Berkadia and our LAM seed investments into Jefferies Group. Revenues related to the net assets transferred were $6.7 million for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018. Income from continuing operations before income taxes related to the net assets transferred were $47.7 million for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018. 

30

The following provides a summary of net revenues by source (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Oil and gas net revenues primarily consist of three components: unrealized gains and losses related to oil hedges, mark-to-market increases and decreases related to a trading asset held at fair value, and production revenues, which also include the impact of realized gains and losses related to oil hedges. Oil and gas net revenues include net unrealized gains (losses) related to oil hedge derivatives of $(6.5) million and $29.1 million during the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018, respectively. As discussed further in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, Vitesse Energy Finance uses swaps and call and put options in order to reduce exposure to future oil price fluctuations. Mark-to-market gains (losses) related to a trading asset held at fair value were $(20.2) million and $12.1 million during the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018, respectively. Production revenues of were $176.9 million and $128.4 million during the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018, respectively. Production revenues for 2019 increased as compared to 2018 due to Vitesse Energy Finance's acquisition of additional non-operated Bakken assets in the second quarter of 2018. 

Net revenues for Idaho Timber decreased in 2019 as compared to 2018, due primarily to a decrease in average selling price. 

The increase in real estate revenues relates to the acquisition of HomeFed.

As discussed more fully above, our LAM seed investments were transferred to Jefferies Group in the fourth quarter of 2018.

Net revenues from our FXCM term loan include gains (losses) of $(8.1) million and $18.6 million during the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018, respectively. This includes the component related to interest income, which is recorded within Principal transactions revenues. 

Spectrum Brands/HRG net revenues reflect changes in the value of our investment. We classified Spectrum Brands/HRG as a trading asset for which the fair value option was elected and we reflected mark-to-market adjustments in Principal transactions revenues. In September 2019, our Board of Directors approved a distribution to stockholders of our Spectrum Brands shares. We distributed 7,514,477 Spectrum Brands shares through a special pro rata dividend effective on October 11, 2019. We recorded a $451.1 million dividend payable as of the September 16, 2019 declaration date, which was equal to the fair value of Spectrum Brands shares at that time. 

Other revenues for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 include a $205.0 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our remaining 31% interest in National Beef and a $72.1 million pre-tax gain on the revaluation of our 70% interest in HomeFed to fair value in connection with the acquisition of the remaining common stock of HomeFed. Other revenues for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018 reflect the gain on sale of our equity interests in Garcadia and our associated real estate of $221.7 million. Other revenues for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018 reflect unrealized gains (losses) on trading assets which are held at fair value of $(269.2) million and $125.1 million, respectively. The unrealized gains (losses) on trading assets include $(182.3) million and $70.9 million for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018, respectively, relating to increases (decreases) in the estimated fair value of our investment in The We Company. 

31

The following provides a summary of total expenses by source (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total expenses for Oil and gas increased in 2019 as compared to 2018, primarily due to Vitesse Energy Finance's acquisition of additional non-operated Bakken assets in the second quarter of 2018 as well as lease abandonment expense incurred at JETX in 2019.

The decrease in total expenses for manufacturing in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily relates to a decrease in Idaho Timber's cost of sales associated with a decrease in average cost of wood due to lower lumber prices in 2019.

The increase in real estate expenses relates to the acquisition of HomeFed.

As discussed more fully above, our LAM seed investments were transferred to Jefferies Group in the fourth quarter of 2018. 

The following provides a summary of Income (loss) related to associated companies (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income (loss) related to associated companies primarily includes our investments in National Beef, subsequent to June 5, 2018 through its sale on November 29, 2019, Berkadia, prior to its transfer to Jefferies Group on October 1, 2018, and the Garcadia Companies, prior to their sale in August 2018.

Income (loss) related to associated companies during the eleven months ended November 30, 2018 includes a $62.1 million impairment loss related to our equity investment in FXCM. As discussed further in Note 11, in the fourth quarter of 2018, we updated expectations for FXCM based on recent revised regulations of the European Securities Market Authority and dampened operating results. Based on the decline in projections and the adverse effects of the European regulations, we evaluated in the fourth quarter whether our equity method investment was fully recoverable. Our estimate of fair value was based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The estimated fair value of our equity interest in FXCM was lower than our carrying value by $62.1 million and an impairment of $62.1 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018.

Income (loss) related to associated companies during the eleven months ended November 30, 2018 includes a $47.9 million impairment loss related to our equity investment in Golden Queen in the third quarter of 2018. As discussed further in Note 11, Golden Queen completed an updated mine plan and financial projections in the third quarter of 2018 reflecting lower grades of 

32

gold as well as a decrease in the market price of gold. As a result of lower projected cash flows, the estimated fair value of our equity interest in Golden Queen was lower than our carrying value by $47.9 million and an impairment of $47.9 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2018.

A summary of results for Merchant Banking by source is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other results for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 include a $205.0 million pre-tax gain on the sale of our remaining 31% interest in National Beef and a $72.1 million pre-tax gain on the revaluation of our 70% interest in HomeFed to fair value in connection with the acquisition of the remaining common stock of HomeFed. Results for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018 reflect the gain on sale of our equity interests in Garcadia and our associated real estate of $221.7 million. Other results for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018 also reflect unrealized gains (losses) on trading assets which are held at fair value of $(269.2) million and $125.1 million, respectively, including $(182.3) million and $70.9 million, respectively, relating to increases (decreases) in the estimated fair value of our investment in The We Company.

Corporate 

A summary of results of operations for Corporate is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net revenues primarily include realized and unrealized securities gains and interest income for investments held at the holding company. For the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, Compensation and benefits expense reflected twelve months of activity, as compared to eleven months for 2018. Compensation and benefits expense for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018, was reduced by the requirement to include a portion of the compensation in discontinued operations. 

33

Parent Company Interest

Parent company interest totaled $53.0 million and $54.1 million for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 and eleven months ended November 30, 2018, respectively. In connection with the acquisition of HomeFed in 2019, we began capitalizing interest. Capitalized interest was allocated among all of HomeFed's projects that are currently under development. Parent company interest capitalized during the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 was $6.0 million.

Income Taxes

For the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, our benefit for income taxes from continuing operations was $484.0 million. As discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, during the second quarter of 2019, we completed the sale of our available for sale portfolio. In connection therewith, we recognized a tax benefit of $544.6 million during 2019. Unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities, and their associated tax impacts, are recorded directly to equity as part of the Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) balance. Following the portfolio approach, when unrealized gains and losses and their associated tax impacts are recorded at a then current tax rate, and then realized later at a different tax rate, the difference between the tax impact initially recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and the tax impact removed from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) upon realization remains in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the disposal of the portfolio and is referred to as a "lodged tax effect." Large changes in the fair value of our available for sale securities, primarily during 2008 through 2010, combined with fluctuations in our tax rate during those periods, generated a lodged tax benefit of $544.6 million. As a result of recent steps to improve our Corporate investment management efforts, we sold the remaining portion of our available for sale portfolio in the second quarter of 2019, which resulted in the realization of the $544.6 million tax benefit. While this realization did not impact total equity, it resulted in a tax benefit reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations of $544.6 million and, as a result, Retained earnings increased and Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) decreased by corresponding amounts. 

For the eleven months ended November 30, 2018, our provision for income taxes from continuing operations was $19.0 million, representing an effective tax rate of 6.4%. Our 2018 provision was reduced by a $48.1 million benefit resulting from a reversal of our valuation allowance with respect to certain federal and state net operating loss carryovers ("NOLs"), which we believe are more likely than not to be utilized before they expire. This benefit reduced our effective tax rate by approximately 16.2%.

Discontinued Operations

On June 5, 2018, we sold 48% of National Beef to Marfrig for $907.7 million in cash, reducing our then ownership in National Beef to 31%. We accounted for our remaining interest under the equity method of accounting. The 2018 sale of National Beef met the GAAP criteria to be classified as a discontinued operation as the sale represented a strategic shift in our operations and financial results. As such, we classified the results of National Beef prior to June 5, 2018 as a discontinued operation and it is reported in Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax provision in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, we recognized a pre-tax gain as a result of the 2018 transaction of $873.5 million ($643.9 million after-tax) for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018, which has been recognized as Gain on disposal of discontinued operations, net of income tax provision in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

34

A summary of results of discontinued operations for National Beef is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The operations of National Beef from January 1, 2018 through June 4, 2018, are included in discontinued operations for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018.

National Beef's profitability is dependent, in large part, on the spread between its cost for live cattle, the primary raw material for its business, and the value received from selling boxed beef and other products, coupled with its overall volume. National Beef operates in a large and liquid commodity market and it does not have much influence over the price it pays for cattle or the selling price it receives for the products it produces. National Beef's profitability typically fluctuates seasonally, with relatively higher margins in the spring and summer months and during times of ample cattle availability. Throughout 2018, demand for beef and cattle supply remained strong, supporting favorable margin conditions. 

For further information, see Note 27 to our consolidated financial statements.

35

Selected Statement of Financial Condition Data 

The tables below reconcile the balance sheet for each of our segments to our consolidated balance sheet (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Long-term debt within Merchant Banking of $342.3 million at November 30, 2019, primarily includes $140.7 million for real estate businesses, $103.1 million for Vitesse Energy Finance and $98.3 million for Foursight Capital.

36

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Long-term debt within Merchant Banking of $81.2 million at November 30, 2018, primarily includes $77.8 million for Vitesse Energy Finance.

37

The table below presents our capital by significant business and investment (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Parent Company Liquidity

Our strategy focuses on strengthening and expanding our core business of Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management, while continuing to simplify our structure and return capital to our shareholders. We are simplifying our structure through a managed transformation of Merchant Banking, which to date has included divestitures, special distributions of assets, as well as transfers of financial assets out of our Merchant Banking portfolio and into Jefferies Group. We anticipate additional transactions as our transformation progresses. Some of these transactions generate significant excess liquidity; some of these transactions also reduce the future receipt of periodic distributions from subsidiaries to the parent company. 

Parent company liquidity, which includes cash and investments that are easily convertible into cash within a relatively short period of time total $2,221.2 million at November 30, 2019, and are primarily comprised of cash, prime and government money market funds and other publicly traded securities. These are classified in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition as cash and cash equivalents and trading assets. At November 30, 2019, $1,641.2 million of this amount is invested in U.S. government money funds that invest at least 99.5% of its total assets in cash, securities issued by the U.S. government and U.S. government-sponsored entities and repurchase agreements that are fully collateralized by cash or government securities. 

During the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, our parent company received cash distributions of $674.0 million from our existing subsidiary businesses, including $382.5 million from Jefferies Group, $170.3 million from National Beef, $60.0 million from HomeFed and $25.0 million from Vitesse Energy Finance. We also received $1,134.7 million from divestitures and repayments of advances, primarily from the sale of our 31% interest in National Beef. As a result of this sale, our future parent company cash receipts will no longer include distributions from National Beef.

Our recurring cash requirements, including the payment of interest on our parent company debt, dividends and corporate cash overhead expenses, aggregate approximately $310.3 million on an annual basis. Dividends paid during the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 of $149.6 million include quarterly dividends of $0.125 per share. On January 9, 2020, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend by 20% to $0.15 per share. The payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon general business conditions, legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem to be relevant. In September 2019, our Board of Directors also approved a special 

38

dividend of our interest in Spectrum Brands common stock. Accordingly, 7,514,477 Spectrum Brands shares were distributed to stockholders of record as of the close of business on September 30, 2019. 

For many years, we have benefitted from federal NOLs which have substantially offset our federal cash tax requirements. During the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, we used about $1.0 billion of our NOLs to offset taxable income, with about $111 million remaining NOLs as of November 30, 2019. Based on this, we anticipate incurring federal cash tax liabilities during the upcoming year.

Our primary long-term parent company cash requirement is our $1.0 billion principal outstanding under our long-term debt, of which $750.0 million is due in 2023 and $250.0 million in 2043. As we generate excess liquidity, we evaluate the best use of the proceeds, which may include reductions to existing debt, share repurchases, special dividends, investments in our businesses, or any of a number of other options available to us.

Shares Outstanding

In January 2019, our Board of Directors approved a $500.0 million share repurchase authorization. Additionally, in connection with the HomeFed merger on July 1, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 9.25 million shares. During the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, we purchased a total of 25,926,388 of our common shares for $506.2 million, or an average price per share of $19.52. In total, based on the closing price of Jefferies common shares at November 30, 2019, we have approximately $203.6 million available for future repurchases. 

At November 30, 2019, we had outstanding 291,644,153 common shares and 23,122,000 share-based awards that do not require the holder to pay any exercise price (potentially an aggregate of 314,766,153 outstanding common shares if all awards become outstanding common shares). The 23,122,000 share-based awards include the target number of shares under the senior executive award plan, which is more fully discussed in Note 16.

Concentration, Liquidity and Leverage Targets

From time to time in the past, we have accessed public and private credit markets and raised capital in underwritten bond financings. The funds raised have been used by us for general corporate purposes, including for our existing businesses and new investment opportunities. In addition, the ratings of Jefferies are a factor considered by rating agencies that rate the debt of our subsidiary companies, including Jefferies Group, whose access to external financing is important to its day to day operations. Ratings issued by bond rating agencies, subject to change at any time, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) On November 25, 2019, Standard and Poor’s upgraded our long-term debt rating from BBB- to BBB and revised our rating outlook from positive to stable.

We target specific concentration, leverage and liquidity principles, expressed in the form of certain ratios and percentages, although there is no legal requirement to do so.

Concentration Target: As a diversification measure, we limit cash investments such that our single largest investment does not exceed 20% of equity excluding Jefferies Group, and that our next largest investment does not exceed 10% of equity excluding Jefferies Group, in each case measured at the time the investment was made. On this basis, Vitesse Energy Finance is our largest investment excluding Jefferies Group and Linkem is our next largest investment excluding Jefferies Group.

Liquidity Target: We hold a liquidity reserve calculated as a minimum of twenty-four months of holding company expenses (excluding non-cash components), parent company interest, and dividends. Maturities of parent company debt within the upcoming year are also included in the target; however, our next maturity is during 2023 so there is no current inclusion.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39

Leverage Target: We target a maximum parent debt to stressed equity ratio of .50, with stressed equity defined as equity (excluding Jefferies Group) assuming the loss of our two largest investments. When our liquidity exceeds the minimum required under our liquidity target, the excess is applied to debt for our leverage target calculation.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

As discussed above, we have historically relied on our available liquidity to meet short-term and long-term needs, and to make acquisitions of new businesses and investments. Except as otherwise disclosed herein, our operating businesses do not generally require significant funds to support their operating activities. The mix of our operating businesses and investments can change frequently as a result of acquisitions or divestitures, the timing of which is impossible to predict but which often have a significant impact on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in any one period. Further, the timing and amounts of distributions from investments in associated companies may be outside our control. As a result, reported cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities do not generally follow any particular pattern or trend, and reported results in the most recent period should not be expected to recur in any subsequent period.

The following table provides a summary of our cash flows (in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40

During the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, net cash used for operating activities primarily relates to funds used by our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment of $1,187.1 million. We also received distributions of $318.2 million from National Beef in 2019. Net gains related to real estate, property and equipment, and other assets for 2019 include the non-cash pre-tax gain of $72.1 million recognized in connection with the acquisition of the remaining interest of HomeFed.

During the eleven months ended November 30, 2018, net cash provided by operating activities primarily relates to funds generated by our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment of $429.7 million. Net cash provided by operating activities for 2018 also includes $96.9 million from distributions from associated companies related to our Merchant Banking segment.

During the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, net cash provided by investing activities includes proceeds from sale of associated companies, primarily related to our sale of our investment in National Beef. Additionally, cash provided by investing activities for 2019 includes proceeds from maturities of investments of $531.1 million and proceeds from sales of investments of $913.2 million. Our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment used funds of $124.4 million for investing activities in 2019.

During the eleven months ended November 30, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities includes proceeds from sale of discontinued operations relating to the sale of National Beef of $898.9 million and proceeds from sale of subsidiaries and proceeds from sale of associated companies of $479.1 million, primarily related to the sale of our investment in Garcadia. Additionally, cash provided by investing activities for 2018 includes proceeds from maturities of investments of $1,084.3 million, proceeds from sales of investments of $1,571.5 million and cash used to purchase investments (other than short-term) of $3,423.2 million. Our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment used funds of $115.4 million for investing activities in 2018.

During the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, net cash provided by financing activities primarily relates to funds provided by our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment of $2,167.4 million. This includes funds provided by the issuance of debt of $2,972.1 million and proceeds from other secured financings of $1,586.3 million, partially offset by funds used for the repayments of debt of $2,421.6 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for 2019 also includes funds used to repurchase common shares for treasury of $509.9 million and funds used to pay dividends of $149.6 million.

During the eleven months ended November 30, 2018, net cash used for financing activities primarily reflects funds used to repurchase common shares for treasury of $1,130.9 million and funds used to pay dividends of $151.8 million. This was partially offset by proceeds from secured financings in our Merchant Banking segment of $343.7 million. Our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment generated funds from financing activities of $439.6 million. This includes funds provided by the issuance of debt of $2,450.7 million and proceeds from other secured financings of $159.4 million, partially offset by repayments of debt of $2,173.3 million. 

As shown below, at November 30, 2019, our contractual obligations totaled $13,111.9 million.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts related to our U.S. pension obligations ($52.8 million) are not included in the above table as the timing of payments is uncertain; however, we do expect to make $8.2 million of contributions to these plans in 2020. For further information, see Note 18 in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, the above amounts do not include liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits as the timing of payments, if any, is uncertain. Such amounts aggregated $327.3 million at November 30, 2019; for more information, see Note 20 in our consolidated financial statements.

41

Our U.S. pension obligations relate to frozen defined benefit pension plans, principally the defined benefit plan of WilTel Communications Group, LLC ("WilTel"), our former telecommunications subsidiary. When we sold WilTel in 2005, its defined benefit pension plan was not transferred in connection with the sale. At November 30, 2019, we had recorded a liability of $46.6 million in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition for WilTel's unfunded defined benefit pension plan obligation. This amount represents the difference between the present value of amounts owed to former employees of WilTel (referred to as the projected benefit obligation) and the market value of plan assets set aside in segregated trust accounts. Since the benefits in this plan have been frozen, future changes to the unfunded benefit obligation are expected to principally result from benefit payments, changes in the market value of plan assets, differences between actuarial assumptions and actual experience and interest rates.

Calculations of pension expense and projected benefit obligations are prepared by actuaries based on assumptions provided by management. These assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis, including assumptions about discount rates, interest credit rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. The timing of expected future benefit payments was used in conjunction with the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve to develop a discount rate for the WilTel plan that is representative of the high quality corporate bond market. Holding all other assumptions constant, a 0.25% change in the discount rate would affect pension expense in 2020 by $0.2 million and the benefit obligation by $6.0 million, of which $4.4 million relates to the WilTel plan.

The deferred losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) have not yet been recognized as components of net periodic pension cost in the Consolidated Statements of Operations ($57.4 million at November 30, 2019). These deferred amounts primarily result from differences between the actual and assumed return on plan assets and changes in actuarial assumptions, including changes in discount rates and changes in interest credit rates. They are amortized to expense if they exceed 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market value of plan assets as of the beginning of the year. The estimated net loss that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into pension expense in 2020 is $3.2 million.

The assumed long-term rates of return on plan assets are based on the investment objectives of the plans, which are more fully discussed in Note 18 in our consolidated financial statements.

Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management Liquidity

General

The Chief Financial Officer and Global Treasurer of Jefferies Group are responsible for developing and implementing liquidity, funding and capital management strategies for the Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management businesses. These policies are determined by the nature and needs of day to day business operations, business opportunities, regulatory obligations and liquidity requirements.

The actual levels of capital, total assets and financial leverage are a function of a number of factors, including asset composition, business initiatives and opportunities, regulatory requirements and cost and availability of both long-term and short-term funding. We have historically maintained a balance sheet consisting of a large portion of total assets in cash and liquid marketable securities, arising principally from traditional securities brokerage and trading activity. The liquid nature of these assets provides flexibility in financing and managing our business.

Jefferies Group maintains modest leverage to support its investment grade ratings. The growth of its balance sheet is supported by its equity and we have quantitative metrics in place to monitor leverage and double leverage. Jefferies Group capital plan is robust, in order to sustain its operating model through stressed conditions. We maintain adequate financial resources to support business activities in both normal and stressed market conditions, including a buffer in excess of regulatory, or other internal or external, requirements. Jefferies Group's access to funding and liquidity is stable and efficient to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity to meet its financial obligations in normal and stressed market conditions.

A business unit level balance sheet and cash capital analysis is prepared and reviewed with senior management on a weekly basis. As a part of this balance sheet review process, capital is allocated to all assets and gross balance sheet limits are adjusted, as necessary. This process ensures that the allocation of capital and costs of capital are incorporated into business decisions. The goals of this process are to protect our platform, enable the businesses to remain competitive, maintain the ability to manage capital proactively and hold businesses accountable for both balance sheet and capital usage.

We actively monitor and evaluate our financial condition and the composition of assets and liabilities. The overall securities inventory is continually monitored, including the inventory turnover rate, which confirms the liquidity of overall assets. Substantially all of Jefferies Group's financial instruments are valued on a daily basis and we monitor and employ balance sheet limits for its various businesses.

42

At November 30, 2019, our Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition includes Jefferies Group's Level 3 trading assets that are approximately 2% of total trading assets.

Securities financing assets and liabilities include financing for financial instruments trading activity, matched book transactions and mortgage finance transactions. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory positions. 

The following table presents period end balance, average balance and maximum balance at any month end within the periods presented for Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fluctuations in the balance of repurchase agreements from period to period and intraperiod are dependent on business activity in those periods. Additionally, the fluctuations in the balances of securities purchased under agreements to resell are influenced in any given period by our clients' balances and our clients' desires to execute collateralized financing arrangements via the repurchase market or via other financing products. Average balances and period end balances will fluctuate based on market and liquidity conditions and we consider the fluctuations intraperiod to be typical for the repurchase market.

Liquidity Management

The key objectives of Jefferies Group's liquidity management framework are to support the successful execution of its business strategies while ensuring sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of financial distress. The liquidity management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that adequate financing may not be accessible to service financial obligations without material franchise or business impact.

The principal elements of Jefferies Group's liquidity management framework are the Contingency Funding Plan, the Cash Capital Policy and the assessment of Maximum Liquidity Outflow.

Contingency Funding Plan. Jefferies Group's Contingency Funding Plan is based on a model of a potential liquidity contraction over a one year time period. This incorporates potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: 

•Repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year and no incremental unsecured debt issuance;

•Maturity rolloff of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral;

•Higher margin requirements than currently exist on assets on securities financing activity, including repurchase agreements;

•Liquidity outflows related to possible credit downgrade;

•Lower availability of secured funding;

•Client cash withdrawals; 

•The anticipated funding of outstanding investment and loan commitments; and 

•Certain accrued expenses and other liabilities and fixed costs.

Cash Capital Policy. A cash capital model is maintained that measures long-term funding sources against requirements. Sources of cash capital include equity and the noncurrent portion of long-term borrowings. Uses of cash capital include the following:

•Illiquid assets such as equipment, goodwill, net intangible assets, exchange memberships, deferred tax assets and certain investments;

43

•A portion of securities inventory that is not expected to be financed on a secured basis in a credit stressed environment (i.e., margin requirements); and 

•Drawdowns of unfunded commitments. 

To ensure that inventory does not need to be liquidated in the event of a funding crisis, we seek to maintain surplus cash capital, which is reflected in the leverage ratios Jefferies Group maintains. Jefferies Group's total long-term capital of $12.3 billion at November 30, 2019 exceeded its cash capital requirements.

Maximum Liquidity Outflow. Jefferies Group's businesses are diverse, and liquidity needs are determined by many factors, including market movements, collateral requirements and client commitments, all of which can change dramatically in a difficult funding environment. During a liquidity crisis, credit-sensitive funding, including unsecured debt and some types of secured financing agreements, may be unavailable, and the terms (e.g., interest rates, collateral provisions and tenor) or availability of other types of secured financing may change. As a result of Jefferies Group's policy to ensure it has sufficient funds to cover estimates of what may be needed in a liquidity crisis, Jefferies Group holds more cash and unencumbered securities and has greater long-term debt balances than the businesses would otherwise require. As part of this estimation process, we calculate a Maximum Liquidity Outflow that could be experienced in a liquidity crisis. Maximum Liquidity Outflow is based on a scenario that includes both a market-wide stress and firm-specific stress.

Based on the sources and uses of liquidity calculated under the Maximum Liquidity Outflow scenarios, we determine, based on calculated surplus or deficit, additional long-term funding that may be needed versus funding through the repurchase financing market and considers any adjustments that may be necessary to Jefferies Group's inventory balances and cash holdings. At November 30, 2019, Jefferies Group had sufficient excess liquidity to meet all contingent cash outflows detailed in the Maximum Liquidity Outflow. We regularly refine our model to reflect changes in market or economic conditions and the firm's business mix.

Sources of Liquidity

Within the Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment, the following are financial instruments that are cash and cash equivalents or are deemed by management to be generally readily convertible into cash, marginable or accessible for liquidity purposes within a relatively short period of time, as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average balances are calculated based on weekly balances.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Consists of high quality sovereign government securities and reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government securities and other high quality sovereign government securities; deposits with a central bank within the European Economic 

44

Area, Canada, Australia, Japan, Switzerland or the U.S.; and securities issued by a designated multilateral development bank and reverse repurchase agreements with underlying collateral comprised of these securities.

(4)Other includes unencumbered inventory representing an estimate of the amount of additional secured financing that could be reasonably expected to be obtained from financial instruments owned that are currently not pledged after considering reasonable financing haircuts. 

In addition to the cash balances and liquidity pool presented above, the majority of trading assets and liabilities are actively traded and readily marketable. At November 30, 2019, repurchase financing can be readily obtained for approximately 74.8% of Jefferies Group's inventory at haircuts of 10% or less, which reflects the liquidity of the inventory. In addition, as a matter of our policy, all of these assets have internal capital assessed, which is in addition to the funding haircuts provided in the securities finance markets. Additionally, certain of Jefferies Group's trading assets primarily consisting of bank loans, consumer loans and investments are predominantly funded by Jefferies Group's long-term capital. Under Jefferies Group's cash capital policy, capital allocation levels are modeled that are more stringent than the haircuts used in the market for secured funding; and surplus capital is maintained at these more stringent levels. We continually assess the liquidity of Jefferies Group's inventory based on the level at which Jefferies Group could obtain financing in the market place for a given asset. Assets are considered to be liquid if financing can be obtained in the repurchase market or the securities lending market at collateral haircut levels of 10% or less. 

The following summarizes Jefferies Group's trading assets by asset class that are considered to be of a liquid nature and the amount of such assets that have not been pledged as collateral as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Consists solely of agency mortgage-backed securities issued by Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae. These securities include pass-through securities, securities backed by adjustable rate mortgages, collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage-backed securities and interest- and principal-only securities.

(2)Unencumbered liquid balances represent assets that can be sold or used as collateral for a loan, but have not been.

In addition to being able to be readily financed at modest haircut levels, it is estimated that each of the individual securities within each asset class above could be sold into the market and converted into cash within three business days under normal market conditions, assuming that the entire portfolio of a given asset class was not simultaneously liquidated. There are no restrictions on the unencumbered liquid securities, nor have they been pledged as collateral.

Sources of Funding

Secured Financing

Readily available secured funding is used to finance Jefferies Group's inventory of financial instruments. Jefferies Group's ability to support increases in total assets is largely a function of the ability to obtain short and intermediate-term secured funding, primarily through securities financing transactions. Repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements (collectively "repos"), respectively, are used to finance a portion of long inventory and cover some of short inventory by pledging and borrowing securities. Approximately 67.6% of Jefferies Group's cash and noncash repurchase financing activities use collateral that is considered eligible collateral by central clearing corporations. Central clearing corporations are situated between participating members who borrow cash and lend securities (or vice versa); accordingly, repo participants contract with the central clearing corporation and not one another individually. Therefore, counterparty credit risk is borne by the central clearing corporation which mitigates the risk through initial 

45

margin demands and variation margin calls from repo participants. The comparatively large proportion of Jefferies Group's total repo activity that is eligible for central clearing reflects the high quality and liquid composition of the inventory Jefferies Group carries in its trading books. For those asset classes not eligible for central clearing house financing, Jefferies Group seeks to execute its bi-lateral financings on an extended term basis and the tenor of Jefferies Group's repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements generally exceeds the expected holding period of the assets Jefferies Group is financing. The weighted average maturity of cash and noncash repurchase agreements for non-clearing corporation eligible funded inventory is approximately five months at November 30, 2019.

Jefferies Group's ability to finance its inventory via central clearinghouses and bi-lateral arrangements is augmented by Jefferies Group's ability to draw bank loans on an uncommitted basis under its various banking arrangements. At November 30, 2019, short-term borrowings, which must be repaid within one year or less and include bank loans and overdrafts, borrowings under revolving credit facilities and equity-linked notes totaled $548.5 million. Interest under the bank lines is generally at a spread over the federal funds rate. Letters of credit are used in the normal course of business mostly to satisfy various collateral requirements in favor of exchanges in lieu of depositing cash or securities. Average daily short-term borrowings outstanding for Jefferies Group were $555.4 million and $472.6 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Our short-term borrowings include the following facilities:

•Credit Facility. On December 27, 2018, one of Jefferies Group's subsidiaries entered into a credit facility agreement ("Jefferies Group Credit Facility") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. for a committed amount of $135.0 million. Interest is based on an annual alternative base rate or an adjusted LIBOR, as defined in the Jefferies Group Credit Facility. The Jefferies Group Credit Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, require Jefferies Group LLC to maintain a specified level of tangible net worth. The covenants also require the borrower to maintain specified leverage amounts and impose certain restrictions on the borrower’s future indebtedness. At November 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants under the Jefferies Group Credit Facility.

•Intraday Credit Facility. The Bank of New York Mellon has agreed to make revolving intraday credit advances ("Jefferies Group Intraday Credit Facility") for an aggregate committed amount of $150.0 million. The Jefferies Group Intraday Credit Facility is structured so that advances are generally repaid before the end of each business day. However, if an advance is not repaid by the end of any business day, the advance is converted to an overnight loan. Intraday loans accrue interest at a rate of 0.12%. Interest is charged based on the number of minutes in a day the advance is outstanding. Overnight loans are charged interest at the base rate plus 3% on a daily basis. The base rate is the higher of the federal funds rate plus 0.50% or the prime rate in effect at that time. The Jefferies Group Intraday Credit Facility contains financial covenants, which include a minimum regulatory net capital requirement for Jefferies Group's U.S. broker-dealer, Jefferies LLC. At November 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants under the Jefferies Group Intraday Credit Facility.

On March 28, 2019, Jefferies Group entered into a promissory note with Jefferies Finance, which was repaid on May 15, 2019. 

In addition to the above financing arrangements, Jefferies Group issues notes backed by eligible collateral under a master repurchase agreement, which provides an additional financing source for its inventory ("repurchase agreement financing program"). The notes issued under the program are presented within Other secured financings in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition. At November 30, 2019, the outstanding notes were $2.5 billion, bear interest at a spread over LIBOR and mature from February 2020 to July 2021. 

Long-Term Debt

Jefferies Group's long-term debt reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition at November 30, 2019 is $7.0 billion. Jefferies Group's long-term debt, excluding its revolving credit facility, has a weighted average maturity of approximately 9.1 years.

During 2019, Jefferies Group issued structured notes with a total principal amount of approximately $498.9 million, net of retirements. In addition, on July 19, 2019, under its $2.5 billion Euro Medium Term Note Program, Jefferies Group issued 1.000% senior unsecured notes with a principal amount of $553.6 million, due 2024. Proceeds amounted to $551.4 million. Additionally, during the twelve months ended November 30, 2019, Jefferies Group repaid $680.8 million of its 8.50% Senior Notes. At November 30, 2019, all of Jefferies Group's structured notes contain various interest rate payment terms and are accounted for at fair value, with changes in fair value resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk presented in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and changes in fair value resulting from non-credit components recognized in Principal transactions revenue. The fair value of all of Jefferies Group's structured notes at November 30, 2019 was $1,215.3 million

46

Jefferies Group has a Revolving Credit Facility ("Jefferies Group Revolving Credit Facility") with a group of commercial banks for an aggregate principal amount of $190.0 million. At November 30, 2019, borrowings under the Jefferies Group Revolving Credit Facility amounted to $189.1 million. Interest is based on an annual alternative base rate or an adjusted LIBOR, as defined in the Jefferies Group Revolving Credit Facility agreement. The Jefferies Group Revolving Credit Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, requires Jefferies Group LLC to maintain specified level of tangible net worth and liquidity amounts, and imposes certain restrictions on future indebtedness of and requires specified levels of regulated capital for certain of its subsidiaries. Throughout the year and at November 30, 2019, no instances of noncompliance with the Jefferies Group Revolving Credit Facility covenants occurred and we expect to remain in compliance given its current liquidity, and anticipated funding requirements given its business plan and profitability expectations.

On September 27, 2019, one of Jefferies Group's subsidiaries entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with a bank for a term loan with a principal amount of $50.0 million ("Jefferies Group Secured Bank Loan"). This Jefferies Group Secured Bank Loan matures on September 27, 2021 and is collateralized by certain trading securities. Interest on the Jefferies Group Secured Bank Loan is 1.25% plus LIBOR. The agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict lien or encumbrance upon any of the pledged collateral. At November 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Jefferies Group Loan and Security Agreement.

Jefferies Group's long-term debt ratings are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) On November 25, 2019, Standard and Poor’s upgraded the Jefferies Group's long-term debt rating from BBB- to BBB and revised its rating outlook from positive to stable.

Jefferies Group's access to external financing to finance its day to day operations, as well as the cost of that financing, is dependent upon various factors, including its debt ratings. Jefferies Group's current debt ratings are dependent upon many factors, including industry dynamics, operating and economic environment, operating results, operating margins, earnings trend and volatility, balance sheet composition, liquidity and liquidity management, capital structure, overall risk management, business diversification and market share and competitive position in the markets in which it operates. Deteriorations in any of these factors could impact Jefferies Group's credit ratings. While certain aspects of a credit rating downgrade are quantifiable pursuant to contractual provisions, the impact on business and trading results in future periods is inherently uncertain and depends on a number of factors, including the magnitude of the downgrade, the behavior of individual clients and future mitigating action taken by us.

In connection with certain over-the-counter derivative contract arrangements and certain other trading arrangements, we may be required to provide additional collateral to counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade. At November 30, 2019, the amount of additional collateral that could be called by counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations under the terms of such agreements in the event of a downgrade of Jefferies Group's long-term credit rating below investment grade was $72.1 million. For certain foreign clearing organizations, credit rating is only one of several factors employed in determining collateral that could be called. The above represents management's best estimate for additional collateral to be called in the event of credit rating downgrade. The impact of additional collateral requirements is considered in Jefferies Group's Contingency Funding Plan and calculation of Maximum Liquidity Outflow, as described above.

Ratings issued by credit rating agencies are subject to change at any time.

47

Net Capital

Jefferies Group operates a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and member firms of FINRA. Jefferies LLC is subject to the SEC Uniform Net Capital Rule ("Rule 15c3-1"), which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital and has elected to calculate minimum capital requirements using the alternative method permitted by Rule 15c3-1 in calculating net capital. Jefferies LLC, as a dually-registered U.S. broker-dealer and FCM, is also subject to Rule 1.17 of the CFTC, which sets forth minimum financial requirements. The minimum net capital requirement in determining excess net capital for a dually-registered U.S. broker-dealer and FCM is equal to the greater of the requirement under Rule 15c3-1 or CFTC Rule 1.17. Jefferies LLC's net capital and excess net capital at November 30, 2019 were $1,645.0 million and $1,528.0 million, respectively. FINRA is the designated examining authority for Jefferies Group's U.S. broker-dealer and the NFA is the designated self-regulatory organization for Jefferies LLC as an FCM.

Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries of Jefferies Group are subject to capital adequacy requirements as prescribed by the regulatory authorities in their respective jurisdictions, including Jefferies International Limited which is subject to the regulatory supervision and requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions that require the registration of all swap dealers, major swap participants, security-based swap dealers, and/or major security-based swap participants. While entities that register under these provisions will be subject to regulatory capital requirements, these regulatory capital requirements have not yet been finalized. We expect that these provisions will result in modifications to the regulatory capital requirements of some of our entities, and will result in some of our other entities becoming subject to regulatory capital requirements for the first time, including Jefferies Financial Services, Inc., which registered as a swap dealer with the CFTC during January 2013 and Jefferies Financial Products LLC, which registered during August 2014. The regulatory capital requirements referred to above may restrict Jefferies Group's ability to withdraw capital from its regulated subsidiaries.

On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom notified the European Council and triggered a period to negotiate its withdrawal from the EU ("Brexit"). While, there is ongoing uncertainty as to the terms and any potential transition periods related to Brexit, we have taken steps to ensure our ability to provide services to our European clients without interruption. As such, we have established a wholly-owned subsidiary of our U.K. broker-dealer in Germany, which has been approved as an authorized MiFID investment firm by the German regulator, and which will enable us to conduct business across all of our European investment banking, fixed income and equity platforms. Our plans contemplate providing sufficient capital pursuant to the regulatory requirements for the planned operations as well pursuant to requirements of relevant clearing organizations.

Some of our other consolidated subsidiaries also have credit agreements which may restrict the payment of cash dividends, or the ability to make loans or advances to the parent company.

48

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As shown below, at November 30, 2019, our commitments and guarantees, substantially all of which related to Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management, totaled $27,124.4 million.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Certain of our derivative contracts meet the definition of a guarantee and are therefore included in the above table. For additional information on commitments, see Note 23 in our consolidated financial statements.

We have agreed to reimburse Berkshire Hathaway for up to one-half of any losses incurred under a $1.5 billion surety policy securing outstanding commercial paper issued by an affiliate of Berkadia. As of November 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding was $1.47 billion. This commitment is not included in the table above as the timing of payments, if any, is uncertain.

In the normal course of business, we engage in other off-balance sheet arrangements, including derivative contracts. Neither derivatives' notional amounts nor underlying instrument values are reflected as assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. Rather, the fair values of derivative contracts are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as Trading assets, at fair value or Trading liabilities, at fair value as applicable. Derivative contracts are reflected net of cash paid or received pursuant to credit support agreements and are reported on a net by counterparty basis when a legal right of offset exists under an enforceable master netting agreement. For additional information about our accounting policies and our derivative activities see Notes 2, 5 and 6 in our consolidated financial statements.

We are routinely involved with variable interest entities ("VIEs") in the normal course of business. At November 30, 2019, we did not have any commitments to purchase assets from our VIEs. For additional information regarding VIEs, see Notes 8 and 10 in our consolidated financial statements.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could significantly differ from those estimates. We believe that the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting estimates, which are those that are important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments – Trading assets and Trading liabilities are recorded at fair value, either as required by accounting pronouncements or through the fair value option election. Gains and losses on trading assets and trading liabilities are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Principal transactions. Available for sale securities are reflected at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reflected as a separate component of equity, net of taxes. Fair value is the amount that 

49

would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (the exit price).

In determining fair value, we maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on market data obtained from independent sources. Unobservable inputs reflect our assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. We apply a hierarchy to categorize our fair value measurements broken down into three levels based on the transparency of inputs as follows:

Level 1:Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reported date. Valuation adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments.

Level 2:Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reported date. The nature of these financial instruments includes cash instruments for which quoted prices are available but traded less frequently, derivative instruments for which fair values have been derived using model inputs that are directly observable in the market, or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data, and instruments that are fair valued using other financial instruments, the parameters of which can be directly observed.

Level 3:Instruments that have little to no pricing observability as of the reported date. These financial instruments are measured using management's best estimate of fair value, where the inputs into the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation.

Fair value is a market based measure; therefore, when market observable inputs are not available, our judgment is applied to reflect those judgments that a market participant would use in valuing the same asset or liability. The availability of observable inputs can vary for different products. We use prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date even in periods of market disruption or illiquidity. The valuation of financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy involves the greatest amount of management judgment.

Jefferies Group's Independent Price Verification Group, independent of its trading function, plays an important role in determining that financial instruments are appropriately valued and that fair value measurements are reliable. This is particularly important where prices or valuations that require inputs are less observable. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. Where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, these control processes include reviews of the pricing model's theoretical soundness and appropriateness by risk management personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. In addition, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model.

For further information on the fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related valuation techniques, see Notes 2 and 5 in our consolidated financial statements.

Income Taxes – We record a valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We are required to consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, and to weigh the evidence when determining whether a valuation allowance is required and the amount of such valuation allowance. Generally, greater weight is required to be placed on objectively verifiable evidence when making this assessment, in particular on recent historical operating results.

We also record reserves for unrecognized tax benefits based on our assessment of the probability of successfully sustaining tax filing positions. Management exercises significant judgment when assessing the probability of successfully sustaining tax filing positions, and in determining whether a contingent tax liability should be recorded and if so, estimating the amount. If our tax filing positions are successfully challenged, payments could be required that are in excess of reserved amounts or we may be required to reduce the carrying amount of our net deferred tax asset, either of which could be significant to our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition or results of operations.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets – We evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate, in management's judgment, that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. When testing for impairment, we group our long-lived assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities (or asset group). The determination of whether an asset group is recoverable is based on management's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows directly attributable to the asset group as compared 

50

to its carrying value. If the carrying amount of the asset group is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. 

Impairment of Equity Method Investments – We evaluate equity method investments for impairment when operating losses or other factors may indicate a decrease in value which is other than temporary. We consider a variety of factors including economic conditions nationally and in their geographic areas of operation, adverse changes in the industry in which they operate, declines in business prospects, deterioration in earnings, increasing costs of operations and other relevant factors specific to the investee. Whenever we believe conditions or events indicate that one of these investments might be significantly impaired, we obtain from such investee updated cash flow projections. We use this information and, together with discussions with the investee's management and comparable public company analysis, evaluate if the book value of its investment exceeds its fair value, and if so and the situation is deemed other than temporary, record an impairment charge.

As described further in Note 11, in the third quarter of 2018 we engaged an independent valuation firm to assist management in estimating the fair value of our equity investment in Golden Queen. Our estimate of fair value was based on a discounted cash flow analysis and is categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The discounted cash flow valuation model used inputs including management's projections of future Golden Queen cash flows and a discount rate of 12%. The estimated fair value of our equity investment in Golden Queen was $62.3 million, which was $47.9 million lower than our prior carrying value at the end of the second quarter 2018. As a result, an impairment charge of $47.9 million was recorded in Income (loss) related to associated companies in the third quarter of 2018.

During 2017, we recorded an impairment charge of $130.2 million related to the write-down to fair value of our equity investment in FXCM. We engaged an independent valuation firm to assist management in estimating the fair value of our equity interest in FXCM in the first quarter of 2017. Our estimate of fair value was based on a discounted cash flow and comparable public company analysis. We concluded based on the regulatory actions, FXCM's restructuring plan, investor perception and declines in the trading price of Global Brokerage's common shares and convertible debt, that the decline in fair value of our equity interest was other than temporary. As such, we impaired our equity investment in FXCM. 

During 2018, we recorded an additional impairment charge of $62.1 million related to the equity component of our investment in FXCM, which is based on updated expectations that have been impacted by the recently revised regulations of the European Securities Market Authority and dampened operating results. Based on the updated projections, we evaluated in the fourth quarter of 2018 whether our equity method investment was fully recoverable. We engaged an independent valuation firm to assist management in estimating the fair value of FXCM. Our estimate of fair value was based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The result of our analysis indicated that the estimated fair value of our equity interest in FXCM was lower than our carrying value by $62.1 million. We concluded that based on the decline in projections and the adverse effects of the European regulations, that the decline in fair value of our equity interest was other than temporary. As a result, we impaired our equity investment in FXCM in the fourth quarter of 2018 by $62.1 million.

Goodwill – We allocate the acquisition cost of consolidated businesses to the specific tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their fair values. Significant judgments and estimates are often made by management to determine these values, and may include the use of appraisals, consideration of market quotes for similar transactions, use of discounted cash flow techniques or consideration of other information we believe to be relevant. Any excess acquisition cost over the fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill, which is not amortized to expense. Substantially all of our goodwill was recognized in connection with the Jefferies Group acquisition.

At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess whether goodwill has been impaired at the reporting unit level. In testing for goodwill impairment, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances lead to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, we conclude that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is not necessary. If we conclude otherwise, we are required to perform the two-step quantitative impairment test. In the first step, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared with its carrying value, including goodwill and allocated intangible assets. If the fair value is in excess of the carrying value, the goodwill for the reporting unit is considered not to be impaired. If the fair value is less than the carrying value then a second step is performed in order to measure the amount of the impairment loss, if any, which is based on comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill to the carrying value. 

The fair values are based on valuation techniques that we believe market participants would use, although the valuation process requires significant judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The methodologies we utilize in estimating fair value include price-to-earnings and price-to-book multiples of comparable public companies and/or projected cash flows. In addition, as the fair values determined under a market approach represent a noncontrolling interest, we applied a 

51

control premium to arrive at the estimated fair value of our reporting units on a controlling basis. The estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value could have a significant effect on whether or not an impairment charge is recorded and the magnitude of such a charge. Adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.

An independent valuation specialist was engaged to assist with the valuation process relating to Jefferies Group for our annual goodwill impairment test as of August 1, 2019. The results of this test indicated the fair value of Jefferies Group was in excess of the carrying value. However, the valuation methodology is sensitive to comparable company multiples and management's forecasts of future profitability, which comes with a level of uncertainty regarding U.S. and global economic conditions, trading volumes and equity and debt capital market transaction levels. The fair value of our reporting units, including Jefferies Group, is also impacted by our overall market capitalization. If the future were to differ adversely from these assumptions or there was a sustained decline in our market capitalization, the estimated fair value of Jefferies Group may decline and result in an impairment. 

Intangible Assets – Intangible assets deemed to have finite lives are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, where the useful life is the period over which the asset is expected to contribute directly, or indirectly, to our future cash flows. Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. If future undiscounted cash flows are estimated to be less than the carrying amounts of the asset groups used to generate those cash flows in subsequent reporting periods, particularly for those with large investments in amortizable intangible assets, impairment charges would have to be recorded.

An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is not amortized but assessed for impairment annually, or more frequently, when certain events or circumstances exist indicating an assessment for impairment is necessary. Impairment exists when the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Fair value is determined using valuation techniques consistent with what a market participant would use. All of our indefinite-lived intangible assets were recognized in connection with the 2013 Jefferies Group acquisition, which consists of exchange and clearing organization membership interests and registrations. Our annual impairment testing date was August 1, 2019. 

Contingencies – In the normal course of business, we have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in legal and regulatory proceedings. We are also involved, from time to time, in other exams, investigations and similar reviews (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our businesses, certain of which may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other injunctions.

We recognize a liability for a contingency when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a probable loss is a range, we accrue the most likely amount of such loss, and if such amount is not determinable, then we accrue the minimum in the range as the loss accrual. The determination of the outcome and loss estimates requires significant judgment on the part of management, can be highly subjective and is subject to significant change with the passage of time as more information becomes available. Estimating the ultimate impact of litigation matters is inherently uncertain, in particular because the ultimate outcome will rest on events and decisions of others that may not be within our power to control. We do not believe that any of our current litigation will have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity; however, if amounts paid at the resolution of litigation are in excess of recorded reserve amounts, the excess could be significant in relation to results of operations for that period. For further information, see Note 23 in our consolidated financial statements.

52

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.