Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The financial and business analysis below provides information which we believe is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. This financial and business analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes.

The following discussion and certain other sections of this Report contain statements that reflect our views about our future performance and constitute "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "outlook," "believe," "anticipate," "appear," "may," "will," "should," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "assume," "seek," "forecast," and similar references to future periods. Our views about future performance involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in our forward-looking statements. We caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements.

In addition to the various factors included in the "Executive Level Overview," "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and "Outlook for the Company" sections, our future performance may be affected by the levels of residential repair and remodel activity and new home construction, our ability to maintain our strong brands and reputation and to develop innovative products, our ability to maintain our competitive position in our industries, our reliance on key customers, the cost and availability of materials and the imposition of tariffs, our dependence on third-party suppliers, risks associated with our international operations and global strategies, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of our strategic initiatives, including the pending divestiture of our Masco Cabinetry business, our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy and integrate businesses that we have and may acquire, our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel, risks associated with our reliance on information systems and technology, and our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits from our investments in new technology. These and other factors are discussed in detail in Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this Report. Any forward-looking statement made by us speaks only as of the date on which it was made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Executive Level Overview

We design, manufacture and distribute branded home improvement and building products. These products are sold primarily for repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, new home construction. We sell our products through home center retailers, online retailers, mass merchandisers, hardware stores, homebuilders, distributors, and direct to the consumer.

2019 Results

Net sales were positively impacted by increased net selling prices across our two segments and the acquisition of The L.D. Kichler Co. ("Kichler") in March 2018. Such increases were partially offset by a decrease in volume, primarily in our Decorative Architectural Products segment and unfavorable foreign currency translation.

Our Plumbing Products segment was negatively impacted by an increase in other expenses (such as salaries, marketing spend and severance charges), an increase in commodity costs, unfavorable foreign currency translation, and higher depreciation expense. These negative impacts were partially offset by increased net selling prices and the benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. Our Decorative Architectural Products segment was positively impacted by increased net selling prices across the segment, the absence of the recognition of the inventory step-up adjustment established as part of the 2018 Kichler acquisition, and the benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. These positive impacts were partially offset by an increase in commodity costs and lower sales volume across the segment, an increase in strategic growth investments and a non-cash impairment charge related to an other indefinite-lived intangible asset for a trademark associated with lighting products.

15

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of any contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We regularly review our estimates and assumptions, which are based upon historical experience, as well as current economic conditions and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions.

Note A to the consolidated financial statements includes our accounting policies, estimates and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

We believe that the following critical accounting policies are affected by significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition and Receivables

We recognize revenue as control of our products is transferred to our customers, which is generally at the time of shipment or upon delivery based on the contractual terms with our customers. We provide customer programs and incentive offerings, including special pricing and co-operative advertising arrangements, promotions and other volume-based incentives. These customer programs and incentives are considered variable consideration. We include in revenue variable consideration only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the variable consideration is resolved. This determination is made based upon known customer program and incentive offerings at the time of sale, and expected sales volume forecasts as it relates to our volume-based incentives. This determination is updated each reporting period.  

We monitor our exposure for credit losses on customer receivable balances and the credit worthiness of our customers on an on-going basis and maintain allowances for doubtful accounts receivable for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. Allowances are estimated based upon specific customer balances, where a risk of default has been identified, and also include a provision for non-customer specific defaults based upon historical collection, return and write-off activity. A separate allowance is recorded for customer incentive rebates and is generally based upon sales activity.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

We record the excess of purchase cost over the fair value of net tangible assets of acquired companies as goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets. In the fourth quarter of each year, or as events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, we primarily complete the impairment testing of goodwill utilizing a discounted cash flow method. We selected the discounted cash flow methodology because we believe that it is comparable to what would be used by market participants. For our Masco Cabinetry reporting unit, we utilized a market approach to determine its fair value instead of the discounted cash flow method, as we were actively marketing the Masco Cabinetry business for sale and on November 14, 2019 we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the business. We have defined our reporting units and completed the impairment testing of goodwill at the operating segment level. 

Determining market values using a discounted cash flow method requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, including long-term projections of cash flows, market conditions and appropriate discount rates. Our judgments are based upon historical experience, current market trends, consultations with external valuation specialists and other information. While we believe that the estimates and assumptions underlying the valuation methodology are reasonable, different estimates and assumptions could result in different outcomes. In estimating future cash flows, we rely on internally generated five-year forecasts for sales and operating profits, and, currently, a two to three percent long-term assumed annual growth rate of cash flows for periods after the five-year forecast. We generally develop these forecasts based upon, among other things, recent sales data for existing products, planned timing of new product launches, estimated repair and remodel activity and estimated housing starts. Our assumptions included a relatively stable U.S. Gross Domestic Product growing at approximately 1.9 percent per annum and a eurozone Gross Domestic Product growing at approximately 1.0 percent per annum over the five-year forecast.

16

We utilize our weighted average cost of capital of approximately 8.0 percent as the basis to determine the discount rate to apply to the estimated future cash flows. Our weighted average cost of capital decreased in 2019 as compared to 2018, primarily due to declining interest rates and lower long-term market growth outlooks. In 2019, based upon our assessment of the risks impacting each of our businesses, we applied a risk premium to increase the discount rate to a range of 10.0 percent to 12.0 percent for our reporting units.

If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that a reporting unit's recorded carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill in that reporting unit.

In the fourth quarter of 2019, we estimated that future discounted cash flows projected for all of our reporting units were greater than the carrying values. Accordingly, we did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill. A 10 percent decrease in the estimated fair value of our reporting units would have resulted in a $35 million impairment to one of our reporting units.

We review our other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter, or as events occur or circumstances change that indicate the assets may be impaired without regard to the business unit. Potential impairment is identified by comparing the fair value of an other indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying value. We utilize a relief-from-royalty model to estimate the fair value of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. We consider the implications of both external (e.g., market growth, competition and local economic conditions) and internal (e.g., product sales and expected product growth) factors and their potential impact on cash flows related to the intangible asset in both the near- and long-term. We also consider the profitability of the business, among other factors, to determine the royalty rate for use in the impairment assessment.

We utilize our weighted average cost of capital of approximately 8.0 percent as the basis to determine the discount rate to apply to the estimated future cash flows. In 2019, based upon our assessment of the risks impacting each of our businesses, we applied a risk premium to increase the discount rate to a range of 11.0 percent to 13.0 percent for our other indefinite-lived intangible assets.

In the fourth quarter of 2019, we estimated that future discounted cash flows projected for our other indefinite-lived intangible assets were greater than the carrying values. Accordingly, we did not recognize any impairment charges for other indefinite-lived intangible assets. A 10 percent decrease in the estimated fair value of our other indefinite-lived intangible assets would have resulted in a $3 million impairment for one of our trade names.

Employee Retirement Plans

As of January 1, 2010, substantially all our domestic and foreign qualified and domestic non-qualified defined-benefit pension plans were frozen to future benefit accruals.

Accounting for defined-benefit pension plans involves estimating the cost of benefits to be provided in the future, based upon vested years of service, and attributing those costs over the time period each employee works. We develop our pension costs and obligations from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions regarding expected return on plan assets, mortality rates and discount rates for obligations and expenses. We consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in selecting these assumptions. While we believe that the estimates and assumptions underlying the valuation methodology are reasonable, different estimates and assumptions could result in different reported pension costs and obligations within our consolidated financial statements.

In December 2019, our Board of Directors approved the termination of our qualified domestic defined-benefit pension plans. As a result of this decision, the projected benefit obligations for these plans were increased to reflect the incremental costs to terminate the plans. Upon termination in 2021, we expect to recognize from accumulated other comprehensive loss approximately $420 million of pre-tax actuarial losses and approximately $90 million of income tax benefit, which includes approximately $11 million of tax expense from the elimination of a disproportionate tax effect.

In December 2019, our discount rate for obligations decreased to a weighted average of 2.5 percent from 3.8 percent. The discount rate for obligations is based primarily upon the expected duration of each defined-benefit pension plan's liabilities matched to the December 31, 2019 Willis Towers Watson Rate Link Curve. For our qualified domestic defined-benefit pension plans, the projected benefit obligations include the estimated incremental cost related to the termination. For these plans, the discount rate was then set equal to the discount rate that results in the same projected benefit obligation resulting from the normal projected benefit obligation calculation plus the estimated incremental cost to terminate. The discount rates we use for our defined-benefit pension plans ranged from 1.1 percent to 3.0 percent, with the most significant portion of the liabilities having a discount rate for obligations of 2.4 percent or 

17

higher. The assumed asset return was primarily 3.0 percent, reflecting the expected long-term return on plan assets based upon an analysis of expected and historical rates of return of various asset classes utilizing the current and long-term target asset allocation of the plan assets.

The net underfunded amount for our qualified defined-benefit pension plans, which is the difference between the projected benefit obligation and plan assets, increased to $254 million at December 31, 2019 from $226 million at December 31, 2018. Our projected benefit obligation for our unfunded, non-qualified, defined-benefit pension plans increased to $161 million at December 31, 2019 from $155 million at December 31, 2018. These unfunded plans are not subject to the funding requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006. In accordance with the Pension Protection Act, the Adjusted Funding Target Attainment Percentage for the various defined-benefit pension plans ranges from 90 percent to 119 percent.

The increase in our qualified defined-benefit pension plan projected benefit obligation was primarily impacted by a decrease in the discount rate. During 2019, we contributed $56 million to our qualified defined-benefit pension plans, and our qualified defined-benefit pension plan assets had a positive return of 17.7 percent. Refer to Note M to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

We expect pension expense for our qualified defined-benefit pension plans to be $30 million in 2020 compared with $16 million in 2019. If we assumed that the future return on plan assets was 50 basis points lower than the assumed asset return and the discount rate decreased by 50 basis points, the 2020 pension expense would increase by $5 million. Assuming a 0 percent asset return for our qualified domestic defined-benefit pension plans, projected 2020 total qualified defined-benefit pension plan expenses are expected to be approximately $37 million. We expect pension expense for our non-qualified defined-benefit pension plans to be $8 million in 2020, consistent with the pension expense recognized in 2019.

We anticipate that we will be required to contribute approximately $23 million in 2020 to our qualified and non-qualified defined-benefit plans; however, we currently anticipate contributing approximately $64 million in 2020. Refer to Note M to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the funding of our plans.

Income Taxes

Deferred taxes are recognized based on the future tax consequences of differences between the financial

statement carrying value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. The future realization of deferred tax

assets depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in future periods. Possible sources of taxable income

include taxable income in carryback periods, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences recorded as a deferred tax liability, tax-planning strategies that generate future income or gains in excess of anticipated losses in the carryforward period and projected future taxable income.

If, based upon all available evidence, both positive and negative, it is more likely than not (more than 50 percent likely) such deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is recorded. Significant weight is given to positive and negative evidence that is objectively verifiable. A company's three-year cumulative loss position is significant negative evidence in considering whether deferred tax assets are realizable, and the accounting guidance restricts the amount of reliance we can place on projected taxable income to support the recovery of the deferred tax assets. 

We maintain a valuation allowance on certain state and foreign deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2019. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize our remaining deferred tax assets in these jurisdictions in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would be recorded in the period such determination is made. The need to maintain a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate.

The comprehensive U.S. tax reform, which generally became effective in 2018, has had a significant impact on our effective tax rate and taxes paid primarily due to the reduction in the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and the additional U.S. taxes on our foreign earnings. The continued impact from U.S. tax reform may differ from our current estimates due to the issuance and finalization of future regulatory guidance.

18

Corporate Development Strategy

We expect to maintain a balanced growth strategy pursuing organic growth by maximizing the full potential of our existing businesses and, as appropriate, complementing our existing business with strategic acquisitions. In addition, we actively manage our portfolio of companies by divesting of those businesses that do not align with our long-term growth strategy.

During 2019, we completed the divestitures of our UKWG and Milgard businesses and entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Masco Cabinetry business. We will continue to review all of our businesses to determine which businesses, if any, may not align with our long-term growth strategy.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Historically, we have largely funded our growth through cash provided by our operations, the issuance of notes in the financial markets, bank borrowings and the issuance of our common stock, including issuances for certain mergers and acquisitions. Maintaining high levels of liquidity and focusing on cash generation are among our financial strategies. Our capital allocation strategy includes reinvesting in our business, balancing share repurchases with potential acquisitions and maintaining an appropriate dividend.

Our total debt as a percent of total capitalization was 102 percent and 98 percent at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Refer to Note K to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

During 2019, we completed the divestitures of our UKWG and Milgard businesses and entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Masco Cabinetry business. With the combined proceeds of $722 million for the UKWG and Milgard divestitures, we executed an accelerated stock repurchase agreement to repurchase $400 million of our common stock. This repurchase is under Masco's existing share repurchase authorization of $2.0 billion of shares of our common stock, which was approved in September 2019. During 2019, including the accelerated stock repurchase agreement, we repurchased 20.1 million shares of our common stock for cash aggregating $896 million.

Additionally, we redeemed and retired $201 million of our 7.125% Notes due March 15, 2020 on December 19, 2019. In connection with this early retirement, we incurred a loss on debt extinguishment of $2 million, which was recorded as interest expense in our consolidated statement of operations.

In the third quarter of 2019, we increased our quarterly dividend to $.135 per common share from $.12 per common share. 

On March 13, 2019, we entered into a credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with an aggregate commitment of $1.0 billion and a maturity date of March 13, 2024. Under the Credit Agreement, at our request and subject to certain conditions, we can increase the aggregate commitment up to an additional $500 million with the current lenders or new lenders. Upon entry into the Credit Agreement, our credit agreement dated March 28, 2013, as amended, with an aggregate commitment of $750 million, was terminated. See Note K to the consolidated financial statements.

The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain (A) a net leverage ratio, as adjusted for certain items, not exceeding 4.0 to 1.0, and (B) a minimum interest coverage ratio, as adjusted for certain items, not less than 2.5 to 1.0. We were in compliance with all covenants and no borrowings were outstanding under our Credit Agreement at December 31, 2019.

On March 9, 2018, we acquired substantially all of the net assets of Kichler. The purchase price, net of $2 million cash acquired, consisted of $549 million paid with cash on hand.

On April 16, 2018, we repaid and retired all of our $114 million, 6.625% Notes on the scheduled repayment date.

On June 21, 2017, we issued $300 million of 3.5% Notes due November 15, 2027 and $300 million of 4.5% Notes due May 15, 2047. We received proceeds of $599 million, net of discount, for the issuance of these Notes. The Notes are senior indebtedness and are redeemable at our option at the applicable redemption price. On June 27, 2017, proceeds from the debt issuances, together with cash on hand, were used to repay and early retire $299 million of our 7.125% Notes due March 15, 2020, $74 million of our 5.95% Notes due March 15, 2022, $62 million of our 7.75% Notes due August 1, 2029, and $100 million of our 6.5% Notes due August 15, 2032. In connection with these early retirements, we incurred a loss on debt extinguishment of $107 million, which was recorded as interest expense.

19

As part of our ongoing efforts to improve our cash flow and related liquidity, we work with suppliers to optimize our terms and conditions, including extending payment terms. We also facilitate a voluntary supply chain finance program (the "program") to provide certain of our suppliers with the opportunity to sell receivables due from us to participating financial institutions at the sole discretion of both the suppliers and the financial institutions. A third party administers the program; our responsibility is limited to making payment on the terms originally negotiated with our supplier, regardless of whether the supplier sells its receivable to a financial institution. We do not enter into agreements with any of the participating financial institutions in connection with the program. The range of payment terms we negotiate with our suppliers is consistent, irrespective of whether a supplier participates in the program. 

All outstanding payments owed under the program are recorded within accounts payable in our consolidated balance sheets. The amounts owed to participating financial institutions under the program and included in accounts payable for our continuing operations were $29 million and $35 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We account for all payments made under the program as a reduction to our cash flows from operations and reported within our (decrease) increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, net, line within our consolidated statements of cash flows. The amounts settled through the program and paid to participating financial institutions were $164 million, $117 million, and $186 million for our continuing operations during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. A downgrade in our credit rating or changes in the financial markets could limit the financial institutions’ willingness to commit funds to, and participate in, the program. We do not believe such risk would have a material impact on our working capital or cash flows, as substantially all of our payments are made outside of the program.

We had cash and cash investments of approximately $697 million at December 31, 2019. Our cash and cash investments consist of overnight interest bearing money market demand accounts, time deposit accounts, and money market mutual funds containing government securities and treasury obligations. While we attempt to diversify these investments in a prudent manner to minimize risk, it is possible that future changes in the financial markets could affect the security or availability of these investments. 

Of the $697 million and $552 million of cash and cash investments we held at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, $297 million and $270 million, respectively, was held in our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds were needed for our operations in the U.S., their repatriation into the U.S. would not result in significant additional U.S. income tax or foreign withholding tax, as we have recorded such taxes on substantially all undistributed foreign earnings, except for those that are legally restricted.

We utilize derivative and hedging instruments to manage our exposure to currency fluctuations, primarily related to the European euro, British pound and the U.S. dollar; occasionally, we have also used derivative and hedging instruments to manage our exposure to commodity cost fluctuations, primarily zinc and copper, and interest rate fluctuations, primarily related to debt issuances. We review our hedging program, derivative positions and overall risk management on a regular basis. We currently do not have any derivative instruments for which we have designated hedge accounting.

Our current ratio was 1.8 to 1 and 1.6 to 1 at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in our current ratio is due primarily to the cash received from the divestiture of our Milgard business less cash used for the accelerated stock repurchase agreement and to repay and retire our 7.125% Notes due March 15, 2020.

20

Cash Flows

Significant sources and (uses) of cash in the past three years are summarized as follows, in millions:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our working capital days were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash provided by operations of $833 million consisted primarily of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization expense of $159 million, stock-based compensation expense and amortization expense related to in-store displays, as well as employee withholding taxes paid on stock-based compensation, which is classified as a financing activity. These amounts were partially offset by the net gain on the sale of Milgard and UKWG as well as contributions to our defined-benefit pension plans.

Net cash used for financing activities was $1,291 million, primarily due to $896 million for the repurchase and retirement of Company common stock (as part of our strategic initiative to drive shareholder value), $201 million for the early retirement of our 7.125% Notes due March 15, 2020, $144 million for the payment of cash dividends, $42 million for dividends paid to noncontrolling interests and $23 million for employee withholding taxes paid on stock-based compensation. These uses of cash were slightly offset by $27 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options.

21

In September 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase, for retirement, of up to $2.0 billion of shares of our common stock in open-market transactions or otherwise, replacing the previous authorization established by our Board of Directors in 2017. During 2019, we repurchased and retired 20.1 million shares of our common stock, (including 0.6 million shares repurchased to offset the dilutive impact of long-term stock awards granted in 2019). At December 31, 2019, we had $1.5 billion remaining under the authorization. Consistent with past practice and as part of our strategic initiative to drive shareholder value, we anticipate using approximately $1.2 billion of cash for share repurchases (including shares which will be purchased to offset any dilution from long-term stock awards granted as part of our compensation programs) in 2020.

Net cash provided by investing activities was $582 million, primarily driven by $720 million of proceeds from the sale of Milgard, net of cash disposed, partially offset by $162 million for capital expenditures. 

We continue to invest in our manufacturing and distribution operations to increase our productivity, improve customer service and support product innovation. Capital expenditures for 2019 were $162 million, compared with $219 million for 2018 and $173 million for 2017. For 2020, capital expenditures of our continuing operations, excluding any potential acquisitions, are expected to be approximately $150 million. Depreciation and amortization expense for 2019 totaled $159 million, compared with $156 million for 2018 and $127 million for 2017. For 2020, depreciation and amortization expense of our continuing operations, excluding any potential 2020 acquisitions, is expected to be approximately $140 million. Amortization expense totaled $27 million in 2019, compared with $24 million and $11 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Costs of environmental responsibilities and compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations have not had, nor do we expect them to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, financial position or results of operations.

We believe that our present cash balance and cash flows from operations, and our ability to utilize our Credit Agreement are sufficient to fund our near-term working capital and other investment needs. We believe that our longer-term working capital and other general corporate requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from bank borrowings and future financial market activities.

Consolidated Results of Operations

We report our financial results in accordance with GAAP in the United States. However, we believe that certain non-GAAP performance measures and ratios, used in managing the business, may provide users of this financial information with additional meaningful comparisons between current results and results in prior periods. Non-GAAP performance measures and ratios should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, our reported results under GAAP.

The following discussion of consolidated results of operations compares each respective period to the same period of the immediately preceding year. 

Sales and Operations

Net sales for 2019 were $6.7 billion, which increased one percent compared to 2018. Excluding acquisitions and the effect of currency translation, net sales increased one percent. The following table reconciles reported net sales to net sales excluding acquisitions and the effect of currency translation, in millions:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

22

Net sales for 2019 increased one percent primarily due to increased net selling prices of our plumbing products and paints and other coating products, which, in aggregate, increased sales by two percent. The acquisition of Kichler in March 2018 increased sales by one percent. Net sales for 2019 were negatively impacted by decreased sales volume of our lighting products which decreased sales by one percent. Foreign currency translation also decreased sales by one percent.

Net sales for 2018 increased 11 percent primarily due to the acquisition of Kichler in March 2018 and Mercury Plastics, Inc. ("Mercury") in December 2017, which increased sales by six percent. Net sales were also positively impacted by increased sales volume of plumbing products, which increased sales by three percent, and net selling price increases of paints and other coating products, and plumbing products, which, in aggregate, increased sales by two percent. Foreign currency translation also increased sales by one percent. Net sales for 2018 were negatively affected by the divestiture of our Arrow Fastener Co., LLC ("Arrow") and Moores Furniture Group Limited ("Moores") businesses, which, in aggregate, decreased sales by one percent.

Our gross profit margins were 35.4 percent, 35.0 percent and 36.9 percent in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The 2019 gross profit margin was positively impacted by increased net selling prices and the absence of the recognition of the inventory step up adjustment established as part of the acquisition of Kichler. Such increases were partially offset by an increase in commodity costs including tariffs. The 2018 gross profit margin was negatively impacted by an increase in commodity costs, the recognition of the inventory step up adjustment established as a part of the acquisition of Kichler, an increase in other expenses (such as salaries and logistics costs) and unfavorable sales mix. These negative impacts were partially offset by an increase in net selling prices, increased sales volume, and the benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 19.0 percent in 2019 compared with 18.8 percent in 2018 and 19.8 percent in 2017. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2019 was primarily driven by an increase in marketing spend. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2018 was driven by leverage of fixed expenses, due primarily to increased sales volume and improved cost control.

The following table reconciles reported operating profit to operating profit, as adjusted to exclude certain items, dollars in millions:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating profit in 2019 was positively affected by increased net selling prices, the absence of the recognition of the Kichler inventory step up adjustment and benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. These positive impacts were partially offset by an increase in commodity costs including tariffs and an increase in other expenses (such as salaries). Operating profit in 2018 was positively affected by increased net selling prices, increased sales volume, and benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. These positive impacts were partially offset by an increase in commodity costs, the recognition of the Kichler inventory step up adjustment and an increase in other expenses (such as salaries, logistics costs, and ERP costs). 

Other Income (Expense), Net

Other, net, for 2019 included $21 million of net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit cost, partially offset by $2 million of realized foreign currency transaction gains and $1 million of earnings related to equity method investments.

Other, net, for 2018 included $14 million of net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit cost and $8 million of realized foreign currency transaction losses. These expenses were partially offset by $3 million of earnings related to equity method investments and $1 million related related to distributions from private equity funds.

23

Interest expense was $159 million, $156 million and $279 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in interest expense from 2017 to 2018 is primarily the result of a loss on debt extinguishment of $107 million, which was recorded as additional interest expense in connection with the early retirement of debt in 2017, the discharge of indebtedness in 2018 and refinancing certain debt at more favorable interest rates in 2017. 

Income and Income Per Common Share from Continuing Operations (Attributable to Masco Corporation)

Income and diluted income per common share from continuing operations for 2019 were $639 million and $2.20 per common share, respectively. Income and diluted income per common share from continuing operations for 2018 were $636 million and $2.05 per common share, respectively. Income and diluted income per common share from continuing operations for 2017 were $426 million and $1.33 per common share, respectively.

Our effective tax rate was 25 percent, 24 percent and 34 percent in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. U.S. tax reform, which generally became effective in 2018, reduced the U.S. Federal tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent. Additionally, effective January 1, 2017 we adopted ASU 2016-09, which requires the tax effects related to employee stock-based payments to be recorded to income tax expense, thus increasing the volatility in our effective tax rate. Our normalized tax rate was 26 percent for both 2019 and 2018 and 34 percent for 2017.

Our effective tax rate in 2019 and 2018 was lower than our normalized of 26 percent due primarily to a $3 million income tax benefit from a change in judgment regarding the realizability of certain deferred tax assets in our state and foreign jurisdictions recognized in 2019 and a $4 million and $14 million tax benefit from stock-based compensation payments recognized in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The 2017 effective tax rate was impacted by divestiture of businesses with no tax impact. This impact was offset by a $17 million net tax benefit from the impact of changes in U.S. Federal tax law and a $18 million tax benefit from stock-based compensation payments recognized in 2017.

Refer to Note R to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

Outlook for the Company

We continue to execute our long-term growth strategies by leveraging our strong brand portfolio, industry-leading positions and Masco Operating System, our methodology to drive growth and productivity. We remain confident in the fundamentals of our business and will continue to execute on our strategies to create shareholder value. We believe that our strong financial position and cash flow generation, together with our current strategy of investing in our industry-leading branded building products, our continued focus on innovation and our commitment to operational excellence, the active management of our portfolio and disciplined capital allocation, will allow us to drive long-term growth and create value for shareholders. Additionally, we completed the divestitures of Milgard and UKWG, as well as, entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Masco Cabinetry business. The closing of the sale of our Masco Cabinetry business is expected during the first quarter of 2020, subject to customary closing conditions. 

24

Business Segment and Geographic Area Results

The following table sets forth our net sales and operating profit information for our continuing operations by business segment and geographic area, dollars in millions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)Divestitures not included in discontinued operations, refer to Note P to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

(B)Before general corporate expense, net; refer to Note P to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

25

Business Segment Results Discussion

Changes in operating profit in the following Business Segment and Geographic Area Results discussion exclude general corporate expense, net, and compares each respective period to the same period of the immediately preceding year. 

Description of changes to sales and operating profit between 2018 and 2017 for the Plumbing Products and Decorative Architectural Products segments were excluded as there were no changes from what was disclosed in the December 31, 2018 Form 10-K. 

Plumbing Products

Sales

Net sales in the Plumbing Products segment were flat in 2019. Net selling price increases of North American operations increased sales by two percent. This increase was offset by foreign currency translation, which decreased sales by two percent.

Operating Results

Operating profit in the Plumbing Products segment in 2019 was negatively impacted by an increase in other expenses (such as salaries, marketing spend and severance charges), an increase in commodity costs including tariffs, unfavorable foreign currency translation, and unfavorable mix. These negative impacts were partially offset by increased net selling prices and benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. 

Decorative Architectural Products

Sales

Net sales of Decorative Architectural Products increased three percent in 2019. The acquisition of Kichler increased sales by two percent. Net selling price increases of paints and other coating products and to a lesser extent, lighting products and builders' hardware also increased sales. Such increases were partially offset by lower sales volume, primarily related to our lighting products.

Operating Results

Operating profit in the Decorative Architectural Products segment in 2019 was positively impacted by increased net selling prices, the absence of the recognition of the Kichler inventory step up adjustment, and the benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. These positive impacts were partially offset by an increase in commodity costs including tariffs, lower sales volume, an increase in strategic growth investments and a non-cash impairment charge related to an other indefinite-lived intangible asset for a trademark associated with lighting products. 

Business Rationalizations and Other Initiatives

Over the last several years, we have taken several actions focused on the strategic rationalization of our businesses including business consolidations, plant closures, headcount reductions and other cost savings initiatives. In 2019, 2018 and 2017, we incurred net pre-tax costs and charges related to these initiatives of $13 million, $9 million, and $2 million, respectively.

We continue to realize the benefits of our business rationalizations and continuous improvement initiatives across our enterprise and expect to identify additional opportunities to improve our business operations, although we do not anticipate that the related costs will be as significant as they have been historically.

During 2019, 2018 and 2017, our Plumbing Products segment incurred costs and charges of $13 million, $9 million and $2 million, respectively. The 2019 costs primarily related to severance and plant consolidation costs in North America. The 2018 costs primarily related to plant closure costs in North America.

26

Geographic Area Results Discussion

North America

Sales

North American net sales in 2019 increased two percent. Net selling price increases of plumbing products and paints and other coating products, in aggregate, increased sales by two percent. The acquisition of Kichler in March 2018 increased sales by one percent. Such increases were partially offset by lower sales volume of lighting products, which decreased sales by one percent.

North American net sales in 2018 increased 14 percent. Net sales were positively impacted by the acquisitions of Kichler and Mercury which, in aggregate, increased sales by eight percent. Net sales were also positively impacted by increased sales volume of plumbing products, which increased sales by four percent, and increased net selling prices of paints and other coating products, which increased sales by two percent.

Operating Results

Operating profit from North American operations in 2019 was positively affected by net selling price increases of plumbing products and paints and other coating products, the absence of the Kichler inventory step-up adjustment, and benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. The positive impacts were partially offset by increased commodity costs and lower volume.

Operating profit from North American operations in 2018 was positively affected by increased net selling prices, higher sales volume, and the benefits associated with cost savings initiatives. These positive impacts were partially offset by an increase in commodity costs, the recognition of the Kichler inventory step up adjustment and an increase in other expenses (such as salaries, logistics costs, and ERP costs).

International, Principally Europe

Sales

Net sales from International operations in 2019 decreased five percent. In local currencies (including sales in foreign currencies outside their respective functional currencies), net sales were flat with favorable net selling prices of plumbing products being offset by unfavorable sales mix. 

Net sales from International operations in 2018 increased six percent. In local currencies, net sales increased two percent, primarily due to higher sales volume of plumbing products, which increased sales by two percent, and net selling price increases, which increased sales by two percent. Such increases were partially offset by an unfavorable sales mix, which decreased sales by one percent.

Operating Results

Operating profit from International operations in 2019 was negatively impacted by other expenses (such as salaries and marketing spend), unfavorable foreign currency translation and an increase in commodity costs, partially offset by increased net selling prices.

Operating profit from International operations in 2018 was positively impacted by increased net selling prices, higher sales volume and favorable foreign currency translation, mostly offset by an increase in other expenses (such as salaries and logistic costs), an increase in commodity costs and unfavorable sales mix.

27

Other Matters

Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

Information regarding our legal proceedings is set forth in Note T to the consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Other Commitments

We enter into contracts, which include reasonable and customary indemnifications that are standard for the industries in which we operate. Such indemnifications include claims made against builders by homeowners for issues relating to our products and workmanship. In conjunction with divestitures and other transactions, we occasionally provide reasonable and customary indemnifications. We have never had to pay a material amount related to these indemnifications, and we evaluate the probability that amounts may be incurred and record an estimated liability when probable and reasonably estimable.

Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note A to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of recently adopted and issued accounting pronouncements, which is incorporated herein by reference.

28

Contractual Obligations

The following table provides payment obligations related to current contracts at December 31, 2019, in millions:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(A)We assume that all debt would be held to maturity. Amounts include finance lease obligations.

(B)There is no schedule for the capital commitments to the private equity funds; accordingly, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when capital commitments may be paid.

(C)Excludes contracts that do not require volume commitments and open or pending purchase orders.

(D)Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows associated with uncertain tax positions, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate for the year in which cash settlements may occur with applicable tax authorities.

Refer to Note M to the consolidated financial statements for defined-benefit pension plan obligations.

29

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.