Item 1A. Risk Factors.

There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. We consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial position.

Our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity, both of which are impacted by a number of economic factors and the housing market.

Our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity. A number of factors impact consumers’ spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity, including:

•consumer confidence levels; 

•fluctuations in home prices;

•existing home sales;

•unemployment and underemployment levels;

•consumer income and debt levels;

•household formation;

•the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for and tax deductibility of such loans; 

•the availability of skilled tradespeople for repair and remodeling work;

•trends in lifestyle and housing design; and

•weather and natural disasters.

The fundamentals driving our business are impacted by economic cycles. Adverse changes or uncertainty involving the factors listed above or an economic downturn in the United States or worldwide could result in a decline in spending on residential repair and remodeling activity and a decline in demand for new home construction, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

We could lose market share if we do not maintain our strong brands, develop innovative products or respond to changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences or if our reputation is damaged.

Our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. Our initiatives to invest in brand building, brand awareness and product innovation may not be successful. The uncertainties associated with developing and introducing innovative and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer demands and preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. If the products we introduce do not gain widespread acceptance or if our competitors improve their products more rapidly or effectively than we do, we could lose market share or be required to reduce our prices, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. 

In recent years, consumer purchasing practices and preferences have shifted and our customers’ business models and strategies have changed. As our customers execute their strategies to reach end consumers through multiple channels, they rely on us to support their efforts with our infrastructure, including maintaining robust and user-friendly websites with sufficient content for consumer research and providing comprehensive supply chain solutions and differentiated product development. If we are unable to successfully provide this support to our customers or if our customers are unable to successfully execute their strategies, our brands may lose market share.

If we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to changing consumer preferences, including a shift in consumer purchasing practices toward e-commerce, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.

Our public image and reputation are important to maintaining our strong brands and could be adversely affected by various factors, including product quality and service, claims and comments in social media or the press, or negative publicity regarding disputes or legal action against us, even if unfounded. Damage to our public image or reputation could adversely affect our sales and results of operations and financial position. 

5

We face significant competition and operate in an evolving competitive landscape.

Our products face significant competition. We believe that brand reputation is an important factor affecting product selection and that we compete on the basis of product features, innovation, quality, customer service, warranty and price. We sell many of our products through home center retailers, online retailers, distributors and independent dealers and rely on these customers to market and promote our products to consumers. Our success with our customers is dependent on our ability to provide quality products and timely delivery. In addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly selling directly to professional contractors and installers, which may adversely affect our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. 

Certain of our customers are increasingly selling products sourced from low‑cost foreign manufacturers under their own private label brands, which directly compete with our brands. As this trend continues, we may experience lower demand for our products or a shift in the mix of some products we sell toward more value‑priced or opening price point products, which may affect our profitability.

In addition, we face competitive pricing pressure in the marketplace, including sales promotion programs, that could affect our market share or result in price reductions, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.

Further, the growing e‑commerce channel brings an increased number of competitors and greater pricing transparency for consumers, as well as conflicts between our existing distribution channels and a need for different distribution methods. These factors could affect our results of operations and financial position. In addition, our relationships with our customers, including our home center customers, may be affected if we increase the amount of business we transact in the e-commerce channel. 

If we are unable to maintain our competitive position in our industries, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.

Our sales are concentrated with two significant customers.

As a result of the divestiture of our windows business in 2019 and the expected divestiture of our cabinetry business, the mix of our business operations has changed and the concentration of our sales to our two largest customers has increased and may continue to increase. In 2019, our net sales from our continuing operations to The Home Depot were $2.5 billion (approximately 37 percent of our consolidated net sales), and our net sales from our continuing operations to Lowe’s were less than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales. These home center retailers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and the terms and conditions on which we do business with them. Additionally, these home center retailers may reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase and could make significant changes in their volume of purchases from us. Although other retailers, dealers, distributors and homebuilders represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, we might not be able to quickly replace, if at all, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to The Home Depot or the loss of all of our sales to Lowe’s, and any such loss would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.

In addition, these home center retailers are granted product exclusivity from time to time, which affects our ability to sell products to other customers and increases the complexity of our product offerings and our costs.

Variability in the cost of our raw materials, component parts and finished goods, including the imposition of tariffs could affect our results of operations and financial position.

We purchase substantial amounts of raw materials, component parts and finished goods from outside sources, including international sources, and we manufacture certain of our products outside of the United States. Increases in the cost of the materials we purchase have in the past and may in the future increase the prices for our products, including as a result of new significant tariffs. For example, the recent trade dispute between the United States and China has resulted in increased tariffs which raised the cost of certain of our materials. There is a risk that additional tariffs on imports from China or new tariffs could be imposed, which could further increase the cost of the materials we purchase or import or the products we manufacture internationally. Further, our production could be affected if we or our suppliers are unable to procure our requirements for various commodities, including, among others, brass, resins, titanium dioxide and zinc, or if a shortage of these commodities results in significantly increased costs. Rising energy costs could also increase our production and transportation costs. In addition, water is a significant component of our architectural coatings products and may be subject to restrictions in certain regions. These factors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

6

It can be difficult for us to pass on to customers our cost increases. Our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. If we are not able to sufficiently increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased material and production costs, including the impact of increasing tariffs, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Increased selling prices for our products have and may in the future lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if those prices are not competitive. When our material costs decline, we have experienced and may in the future receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. Such reductions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

From time to time we enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers to help ensure continued availability of the commodities we require to produce our products and to establish firm pricing, but at times these contractual commitments may result in our paying above market prices for commodities during the term of the contract. Occasionally, we may also use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. This strategy increases the possibility that we may make commitments for these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which has occurred and could occur in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

We are dependent on third-party suppliers.

We are dependent on third‑party suppliers for many of our products and components, and our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate and timely supply of these products and components. Failure of our suppliers to timely provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, or our policies regarding our supplier business practices, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position or could damage our reputation. Sourcing these products and components from alternate suppliers, including suppliers from new geographic regions, is time-consuming and costly and could result in inefficiencies or delays in our business operations. Accordingly, the loss of critical suppliers, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

Many of the suppliers we rely upon are located in foreign countries. The differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, changes in economic conditions and trade policies and laws and regulations, together with the limited number of suppliers, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. If we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain or if there is a disruption in transporting the products or components, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.

There are risks associated with our international operations and global strategies.

In 2019, 21 percent of our sales from continuing operations were made outside of North America (principally in Europe) and transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition to our European operations, we manufacture products in Asia and source products and components from third parties globally. Risks associated with our international operations include changes in political, monetary and social environments, economic conditions, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, social and political unrest, terrorist attacks, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights.

We are also affected by domestic and international laws applicable to companies doing business abroad or importing and exporting goods and materials. These include tax laws, laws regulating competition, anti‑bribery/anti‑corruption and other business practices, and trade regulations, including duties and tariffs. Compliance with these laws is costly, and future changes to these laws may require significant management attention and disrupt our operations. Additionally, while it is difficult to assess what changes may occur and the relative effect on our international tax structure, significant changes in how U.S. and foreign jurisdictions tax cross‑border transactions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

Our results of operations and financial position are also impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. Unfavorable currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar and the Chinese Yuan Renminbi, have in the past adversely affected us, and could adversely affect us in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period.

Additionally, as the situation involving the United Kingdom’s decision to exit from the European Union continues to develop, we could experience volatility in the currency exchange rates or a change in the demand for our products and services, particularly in our U.K. and European markets, or there could be disruption of our operations and our customers’ and suppliers’ businesses.

7

We may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our strategic initiatives. 

We continue to pursue our strategic initiatives of investing in our brands, developing innovative products, and focusing on operational excellence through the Masco Operating System, our methodology to drive growth and productivity. These initiatives are designed to grow revenue, improve profitability and increase shareholder value over the mid‑ to long‑term. Our business performance and results could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully execute these initiatives or if we are unable to execute these initiatives in a timely and efficient manner. We could also be adversely affected if we have not appropriately prioritized and balanced our initiatives or if we are unable to effectively manage change throughout our organization.

We may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy or integrate businesses that we acquire. 

Pursuing the acquisition of businesses complementary to our portfolio is a component of our strategy for future growth. If we are not able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate potential acquisitions within a desired time frame or at acceptable terms and prices, our long‑term competitive positioning may be affected. Even if we are successful in acquiring businesses, the businesses we acquire may not be able to achieve the revenue, profitability or growth we anticipate, or we may experience challenges and risks in integrating these businesses into our existing business. Such risks include:

•difficulties realizing expected synergies and economies of scale;

•diversion of management attention and our resources;

•unforeseen liabilities;

•issues or conflicts with our new or existing customers or suppliers; and

•difficulties in retaining critical employees of the acquired businesses. 

Future foreign acquisitions may also increase our exposure to foreign currency risks and risks associated with interpretation and enforcement of foreign regulations. Our failure to address these risks could cause us to incur additional costs and fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

The long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel.

To be successful, we must invest significant resources to attract, develop and retain highly qualified, talented and diverse employees at all levels, who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to implement our strategic initiatives. We compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we may fail in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them, particularly with low unemployment levels in the United States. From time to time, we have been affected by a shortage of qualified personnel in certain geographic areas. Our growth, competitive position and results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected by our failure to attract, develop and retain key employees, to build strong leadership teams, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, or by a shortage of qualified employees.

We rely on information systems and technology, and a breakdown of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

We rely on many information systems and technology to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities. We may be adversely affected if our information systems breakdown, fail, or are no longer supported. In addition to the consequences that may occur from interruptions in our systems, increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems.

We have implemented security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. Despite these efforts, our systems have been and may in the future be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to cybersecurity attacks by unauthorized access, malware, ransomware, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery plans may be ineffective or inadequate. These breaches or intrusions have led and could in the future lead to business interruption, production or operational downtime, product shipment delays, exposure or loss of proprietary, confidential, personal or financial information, data corruption, an inability to report our financial results in a timely manner, damage to the reputation of our brands, damage to our relationships with our customers and suppliers, exposure to litigation, and increased costs associated with the remediation and mitigation of such attacks. Such events could adversely affect our results of operations and 

8

financial position. In addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experiences any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation.

We may not experience the anticipated benefits from our investments in new technology. 

We continue to invest in new technology systems throughout our company, including implementations of Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) systems at our business units. ERP implementations are complex and require significant management oversight, and we have experienced, and may continue to experience, unanticipated expenses and interruptions to our operations during these implementations. Our results of operations and financial position, as well as the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, could be adversely affected if we do not appropriately select and implement our new technology systems in a timely manner or if we experience significant unanticipated expenses or disruptions in connection with the implementation of ERP systems.

Claims and litigation could be costly.

We are involved in various claims and litigation, including class actions, mass torts and regulatory proceedings, that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have a material adverse effect on us. The types of matters may include, among others: competition, product liability, employment, warranty, advertising, contract, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, product compliance and insurance coverage. The outcome and effect of these matters are inherently unpredictable, and defending and resolving them can be costly and can divert management’s attention. We have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of claims and litigation.

We are also subject to product safety regulations, product recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant costs and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, create adverse publicity and damage the reputation of our brands and business. Also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide products or components for products that we sell. Due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products and components we source from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers.

We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. The levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover our losses or liabilities. If any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

Refer to Note T to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses.

Compliance with laws, government regulation and industry standards is costly, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 

We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to:

•securities matters;

•taxation;

•anti-bribery/anti-corruption;

•employment matters;

•minimum wage requirements;

•health and safety;

•the protection of employees and consumers;

•product compliance;

•competition practices;

•trade, including duties and tariffs;

•data privacy and the collection and storage of information; and

•climate change and environmental issues. 

In addition to complying with current requirements and known future requirements, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on us in the future. 

As we sell new types of products or existing products in new geographic areas or channels or for new applications, we are subject to the requirements applicable to those sales. Additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. Compliance with new or changed laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our product designs, our manufacturing processes, our packaging or our sourcing. These compliance activities are costly and require significant management attention and resources. If we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.

9

We may not be able to adequately protect or prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property.

Protecting our intellectual property is important to our growth and innovation efforts. We own a number of patents, trade names, brand names and other forms of intellectual property in our products and manufacturing processes throughout the world. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent violations. Our intellectual property has been and may again be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected. In addition, the global nature of our business increases the risk that we may be unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights on reasonable terms. Furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. Current and former employees, contractors, customers or suppliers have or may have had access to proprietary or confidential information regarding our business operations that could harm us if used by them, or disclosed to others, including our competitors. Protecting and defending our intellectual property could be costly, time consuming and require significant resources. If we are not able to protect our existing intellectual property rights, or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, sales of our products may be affected and we may experience reputational damage to our brand names, increased litigation costs and adverse impact to our competitive position, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

Restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could limit our financial flexibility.

We must comply with both financial and nonfinancial covenants in our credit agreement, and in order to borrow under it, we cannot be in default with any of those provisions. Our ability to borrow under the credit agreement could be affected if our earnings significantly decline to a level where we are not in compliance with the financial covenants or if we default on any nonfinancial covenants. In the past, we have been able to amend the covenants in our credit agreement, but there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend them. If we were unable to borrow under our credit agreement, our financial flexibility could be restricted.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2.Properties.