Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

The following discussion and analysis of the Company’s Results of Operations includes a comparison of fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2018. A similar discussion and analysis that compares fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2017 may be found in Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.

Mohawk is a significant supplier of every major flooring category with manufacturing operations in 19 nations and sales in more than 170 countries. Based on its annual sales, the Company believes it is the world’s largest flooring manufacturer. A majority of the Company’s long-lived assets are located in the United States and Europe, which are also the Company’s primary markets. The Company expects continued growth in the United States market consistent with residential housing starts and remodeling investments and has invested significantly in state-of-the-art manufacturing to create aspirational products to delight consumers with beauty and performance. The Company also is a leading provider of flooring for the U.S. commercial market and has earned significant recognition for its innovation in design and performance as well as its sustainable products and practices. Additionally, the Company maintains significant operations in Europe, Russia, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and other parts of the world. The Company is growing share in many markets through its differentiated products, especially its ceramic tile collections.

During the past two decades, the Company has grown significantly. Its current geographic breadth and diverse product offering are reflected in three reporting segments: Global Ceramic; Flooring North America (“Flooring NA”); and Flooring Rest of the World (“Flooring ROW”). The Global Ceramic Segment designs, manufactures, sources and markets a broad line of ceramic tile, porcelain tile, natural stone tile and other products including natural stone, quartz and porcelain slab countertops, which it distributes primarily in North America, Europe, Brazil and Russia through various selling channels, which include company-owned stores, independent distributors and home centers. The Flooring NA Segment designs, manufactures, sources and markets its floor covering products, including broadloom carpet, carpet tile, rugs, carpet cushion, laminate and vinyl products, including luxury vinyl tile (LVT) and sheet vinyl, and wood flooring, all of which it distributes through its network of regional distribution centers and satellite warehouses using Company-operated trucks, common carriers or rail transportation. The Segment’s product lines are sold through various channels, including independent floor covering retailers, independent distributors, home centers, mass merchandisers, department stores, shop at home, online retailers, buying groups, commercial contractors and commercial end users. The Flooring ROW Segment designs, manufactures, sources, licenses and markets laminate, vinyl products, including LVT and sheet vinyl, wood flooring, roofing panels, insulation boards, medium-density fiberboard (“MDF”) and chipboards, which it distributes primarily in Europe, Russia, Australia and New Zealand through various channels, including independent floor covering retailers, independent distributors, company-owned distributors, home centers, commercial contractors and commercial end users.

The Company is managing through current macroeconomic headwinds including significant inflation, a strong U.S. dollar that is impacting currency translation as well as strengthening the competitiveness of imports in the U.S., slowing housing markets in a number of countries and a shift in consumer preferences to luxury vinyl tile. The Company has implemented multiple price increases in most product categories due to escalating material, transportation and energy costs in most markets. While focused on addressing current conditions, the Company remains committed to its long-term growth strategy, which includes strategic acquisitions in key growth markets and targeted internal investments that are expanding the Company’s geographic reach and product portfolio.

In 2018, the Company completed five acquisitions: two that expanded the Company’s global footprint with leadership positions in major markets and three that extended the Company’s product offering and distribution in Europe. The Godfrey Hirst acquisition established the Company as the largest flooring manufacturer in Australia and New Zealand, with leading carpet and hard surface positions in both countries when combined with the Company’s existing regional flooring distribution business. Godfrey Hirst’s prestigious wool carpet collections are exported to numerous international markets and have been integrated into the U.S. soft surface product portfolio to expand sales. The acquisition of Brazil-based Eliane provided the Company with a leading ceramic tile position and the most appealing brand in one of the world’s largest ceramic markets and created a gateway into the overall South American market as Eliane is Brazil’s largest ceramic exporter. The acquisition of Berghoef, a leading European mezzanine flooring company, created a leading position in a category that is rapidly expanding due to increased construction of e-commerce warehousing across the continent. The acquisition of Swiss and Italian hard surface distributors expanded the Company’s direct distribution of flooring sales in Europe.

26
Index to Financial Statements

In 2019, the Company invested approximately $545.5 million in capital projects to introduce new product categories, enter new markets, expand capacity of constrained premium products and improve productivity. In 2020, the Company plans to invest approximately an additional $560-$580 million to complete existing projects and commence new initiatives. The Company plans to invest in cost reduction initiatives, upgrades in recent acquisitions, previously initiated expansion projects and maintenance across the businesses. The main investment areas include the Company’s newly acquired ceramic business in Brazil and the Godfrey Hirst Group in Australia and New Zealand where the Company is investing to dramatically improve profitability; premium water-resistant laminate in the U.S.; outdoor tile manufacturing in Europe; and premium sanitary ware manufacturing in Russia. 

Net earnings attributable to the Company were $744.2 million, or diluted EPS of $10.30 for 2019 compared to net earnings attributable to the Company of $861.7 million, or diluted EPS of $11.47 for 2018. The decrease in EPS was primarily attributable to higher inflation costs, the unfavorable net impact of price and product mix, an impairment charge related to the Company's net investment in a manufacturer and distributor of ceramic tile in China, the unfavorable net impact due to lower sales volumes, an increase in costs due to lower productivity (offset by lower startup costs), costs due to temporarily reducing production, the unfavorable net impact from foreign exchange rates, costs associated with investments in new product development, sales personnel and marketing, partially offset by decreased income tax expense. The Company implemented select operational, administrative and financial restructurings that centralized certain business processes and intangible assets in various European jurisdictions into a new entity (the “European Restructuring”). The European Restructuring resulted in a current income tax liability of $148.2 million, calculated in part by measuring the fair value of intangible assets transferred. The Company offset the income tax liability with the utilization of $148.2 million of deferred tax assets from accumulated net operating loss carry forwards. The European Restructuring also resulted in the Company recording a $136.2 million deferred tax asset, and a corresponding deferred tax benefit, related to the tax basis of the intangible assets in the new entity.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company generated $1,418.8 million of cash from operating activities. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $134.8 million, of which $24.8 million was in the United States and $110.0 million was in foreign countries.

27
Index to Financial Statements

Results of Operations

Following are the results of operations for the last three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28
Index to Financial Statements

Year Ended December 31, 2019, as Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2018 

Net sales

Net sales for 2019 were $9,970.7 million, reflecting a decrease of $12.9 million, or 0.1%, from the $9,983.6 million reported for 2018. The decrease was primarily attributable to the unfavorable net impact from foreign exchange rates of approximately $178 million, or 1.8% and by the unfavorable net impact of price and product mix of approximately $54 million, or 0.5% offset by higher sales volume of approximately $219 million, or 2.2%, which includes the full year impact on sales from the prior year acquisitions of approximately $360 million.

Global Ceramic Segment—Net sales increased $78.2 million, or 2.2%, to $3,631.1 million for 2019, compared to $3,552.9 million for 2018. The increase was primarily attributable to higher sales volume of approximately $113 million, or 3.2%, which includes the full year impact on sales volume attributable to acquisitions from the prior year of approximately $183 million, and the favorable net impact of price and product mix of approximately $20 million partially offset by the unfavorable net impact from foreign exchange rates of approximately $54 million, or 1.5%.

Flooring NA Segment—Net sales decreased $185.4 million, or 4.6%, to $3,843.7 million for 2019, compared to $4,029.1 million for 2018. The decrease was attributable to lower volumes of approximately $186 million, or 4.6%.

Flooring ROW Segment—Net sales increased $94.2 million, or 3.9%, to $2,495.8 million for 2019, compared to $2,401.6 million for 2018. The increase was primarily attributable to higher sales volume of approximately $292 million, or 12.1%, which includes the full year impact on sales volume attributable to acquisitions from the prior year of approximately $177 million partially offset by the unfavorable net impact from foreign exchange rates of approximately $124 million, or 5.2%, and the unfavorable net impact of price and product mix of approximately $75 million, or 3.1%.

Quarterly net sales and the percentage changes in net sales by quarter for 2019 versus 2018 were as follows (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross profit

Gross profit for 2019 was $2,676.0 million (26.8% of net sales), a decrease of $162.1 million or 5.7%, compared to gross profit of $2,838.1 million (28.4% of net sales) for 2018. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit decreased 159 basis points. The decrease in gross profit dollars was primarily attributable to the unfavorable net impact of price and product mix of approximately $80 million, the higher inflation costs of approximately $54 million, the unfavorable net impact from foreign exchange rates of approximately $51 million, the impact of restructuring, acquisition and integration-related costs of approximately $36 million, and costs due to temporarily reduced production of approximately $24 million, partially offset by lower startup costs of approximately $48 million and higher sales volume of approximately $36 million.

Selling, general and administrative expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2019 were $1,848.8 million (18.5% of net sales), an increase of $106.1 million or 6.1% compared to $1,742.7 million (17.5% of net sales) for 2018. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 109 basis points. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in dollars was primarily attributable to approximately $72 million of costs due to higher sales volume including acquisitions, higher inflation costs of approximately $29 million and approximately $13 million of costs associated with investments in new product development, sales personnel and marketing, partially offset by the net impact of favorable foreign exchange rates of approximately $27 million.

29
Index to Financial Statements

Operating income

Operating income for 2019 was $827.2 million (8.3% of net sales) reflecting a decrease of $268.1 million, or 24.5%, compared to operating income of $1,095.3 million (11.0% of net sales) for 2018. The decrease in operating income was primarily attributable to higher inflation costs of approximately $83 million, the unfavorable net impact of price and product mix of approximately $81 million, approximately $36 million due to lower sales volume, an increase in costs of approximately $31 million due to lower productivity (offset by lower startup costs of approximately $58 million), the unfavorable net impact from foreign exchange rates of approximately $24 million, approximately $24 million of costs due to temporarily reduced production, the impact of restructuring, acquisition and integration-related costs of approximately $17 million, and approximately $13 million of costs associated with investments in new product development, sales personnel and marketing.

Global Ceramic Segment—Operating income was $340.1 million (9.4% of segment net sales) for 2019 reflecting a decrease of $102.8 million, or 23.2%, compared to operating income of $442.9 million (12.5% of segment net sales) for 2018. The decrease in operating income was primarily attributable to higher inflation costs of approximately $75 million, approximately $25 million of costs due to temporarily reduced production, approximately $13 million of costs associated with investments in new product development, sales personnel and marketing, approximately $23 million due to the unfavorable net impact of sales volume, price, product mix, and the unfavorable net impact from foreign exchange rates of approximately $7 million, partially offset by savings from capital investments and cost reduction initiatives of approximately $34 million.

Flooring NA Segment—Operating income was $167.4 million (4.4% of segment net sales) for 2019 reflecting a decrease of $180.5 million, or 51.9%, compared to operating income of $347.9 million (8.6% of segment net sales) for 2018. The decrease 

in operating income was primarily attributable to approximately $72 million in decreased sales volume, higher inflation costs of approximately $49 million, and an increase in costs of approximately $41 million due to lower than expected production volumes, the impact of restructuring, acquisition and integration-related costs of approximately $37 million, partially offset by lower startup costs of approximately $22 million.

Flooring ROW Segment—Operating income was $359.4 million (14.4% of segment net sales) for 2019 reflecting an increase of $13.6 million, or 3.9%, compared to operating income of $345.8 million (14.4% of segment net sales) for 2018. The increase in operating income was primarily attributable to increased sales volume of approximately $51 million, lower inflation costs of approximately $46 million and lower start-up costs of approximately $33 million, partially offset by unfavorable net impact of price and product mix of approximately $69 million, an increase in costs of approximately $24 million due to lower production volumes, and the unfavorable net impact from foreign exchange rates of approximately $17 million. 

Interest expense

Interest expense was $41.3 million for 2019, reflecting an increase of $2.5 million compared to interest expense of $38.8 million for 2018. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to increased borrowings during the year.

Other expense (income)

Other expense was $36.4 million for 2019, reflecting an unfavorable change of $29.1 million compared to other expense of $7.3 million for 2018. The change was primarily attributable to a net impairment charge of $59.9 million related to the Company's net investment in a manufacturer and distributor of ceramic tile in China, partially offset by favorable FX and other miscellaneous items.

30
Index to Financial Statements

Income tax expense

For 2019, the Company recorded income tax expense of $5.0 million on earnings before income taxes of $749.5 million for an effective tax rate of 0.7%, as compared to an income tax expense of $184.3 million on earnings before income taxes of $1,049.2 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 17.6% for 2018. The Company implemented select operational, administrative and financial restructurings that centralized certain business processes and intangible assets in various European jurisdictions into a new entity. The European Restructuring resulted in a current income tax liability of $148.2 million, calculated in part by measuring the fair value of intangible assets transferred. The Company offset the income tax liability with the utilization of $148.2 million of deferred tax assets from accumulated net operating loss carry forwards. The European Restructuring also resulted in the Company recording a $136.2 million deferred tax asset, and a corresponding deferred tax benefit, related to the tax basis of the intangible assets in the new entity. The tax rate for the Company was also favorably impacted by its geographic mix of earnings.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company’s primary liquidity requirements are for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The Company’s liquidity needs are met primarily through a combination of internally generated funds, commercial paper, bank credit lines, term and senior notes and credit terms from suppliers. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had a total of $1,066.5 million available under its Senior Credit Facility. The Company also maintains local currency revolving lines of credit and other credit facilities to provide liquidity to its businesses around the world. None of such local facilities are material in amount.

Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended 2019 was $1,418.8 million, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,181.3 million for the year ended 2018. This increase of $237.4 million was primarily attributable to changes in working capital, partially offset by lower net earnings. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for 2018 as compared to 2017 of $12.3 million was primarily attributable to a reduction in operating income and changes in working capital.

Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended 2019 was $616.0 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $1,332.2 million for the year ended 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a $487.9 million reduction in acquisitions and a $248.6 million reduction in capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended 2018 was $1,332.2 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $1,240.7 million for the year ended 2017. The increase was primarily due to a $318.2 million increase in acquisitions, partially offset by a $111.9 million reduction in capital expenditures. The Company continues to invest to optimize sales and profit growth with product expansion and cost reduction projects in the business. 

Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended 2019 was $789.9 million compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $198.0 million for the year ended 2018. The change in cash used in financing is primarily attributable to lower borrowings of commercial paper of $860.6 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended 2018 was $198.0 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of $7.0 million for the year ended 2017. The change in cash provided by financing is primarily attributable to increased borrowings of commercial paper, offset by purchases of the Company’s shares of $274.1 million

Senior Credit Facility

On October 18, 2019, the Company amended and restated its $1,800.0 million senior credit facility, extending the maturity from March 26, 2022 to October 18, 2024 (as amended and restated, the “Senior Credit Facility”). The Senior Credit Facility marginally reduced the commitment fee and modified certain negative covenants to provide the Company with additional flexibility, including flexibility to make acquisitions and incur additional indebtedness. The amendment also renewed the Company’s option to extend the maturity of the Senior Credit Facility up to two times for an additional one-year period each. 

At the Company’s election, revolving loans under the Senior Credit Facility bear interest at annual rates equal to either (a) LIBOR for 1, 2, 3 or 6 month periods, as selected by the Company, plus an applicable margin ranging between 1.00% and 1.75% (1.125% as of December 31, 2019), or (b) the higher of the Wells Fargo Bank, National Association prime rate, the Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or the Eurocurrency Rate (as defined in the Senior Credit Facility) rate plus 1.0%, plus an applicable margin ranging between 0.00% and 0.75% (0.125% as of December 31, 2019). The Company also pays a commitment fee to the lenders under the Senior Credit Facility on the average amount by which the aggregate commitments of the lenders exceed utilization of the Senior Credit Facility ranging from 0.09% to 0.20% per annum (0.11% as of December 31, 2019). The applicable margins and the commitment fee are determined based on whichever of the Company’s Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio or its senior unsecured debt rating (or if not available, corporate family rating) results in the lower applicable margins and commitment fee (with applicable margins and the commitment fee increasing as that ratio increases or those ratings decline, as applicable). 

The obligations of the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of the Senior Credit Facility are unsecured.

31
Index to Financial Statements

The Senior Credit Facility includes certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the Company’s financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, subsidiary indebtedness, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the Company’s business. The Company is also required to maintain a Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0, each as of the last day of any fiscal quarter. The limitations contain customary exceptions or, in certain cases, do not apply as long as the Company is in compliance with the financial ratio requirements and is not otherwise in default. However, at the Company’s election upon the occurrence of certain material acquisitions, a step up of the maximum permitted Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio to 4.00 to 1.00 for the four (4) fiscal quarter period of the Company commencing with the fiscal quarter during which said acquisition(s) closes. 

The Senior Credit Facility also contains customary representations and warranties and events of default, subject to customary grace periods.

In 2019, the Company paid financing costs of $2.3 million in connection with the amendment and restatement of its Senior Credit Facility. These costs were deferred and, along with previously unamortized costs of $3.4 million are being amortized over the term of the Senior Credit Facility.

As of December 31, 2019, amounts utilized under the Senior Credit Facility included $16.8 million of borrowings and $22.8 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments. The outstanding borrowings of $693.9 million under the Company’s U.S. and European commercial paper programs as of December 31, 2019 reduce the availability of the 2019 Senior Credit Facility. Including commercial paper borrowings, the Company has utilized $733.5 million under the Senior Credit Facility resulting in a total of $1,066.5 million available as of December 31, 2019. 

Commercial Paper

On February 28, 2014 and July 31, 2015, the Company established programs for the issuance of unsecured commercial paper in the United States and Eurozone capital markets, respectively. Commercial paper issued under the U.S. and European programs will have maturities ranging up to 397 and 183 days, respectively. None of the commercial paper notes may be voluntarily prepaid or redeemed by the Company and all rank pari passu with all of the Company’s other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. To the extent that the Company issues European commercial paper notes through a subsidiary of the Company, the notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company.

The Company uses its Senior Credit Facility as a liquidity backstop for its commercial paper programs. Accordingly, the total amount outstanding under all of the Company's commercial paper programs may not exceed $1,800.0 million (less any amounts drawn on the Senior Credit Facility) at any time.

The proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes will be available for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2019, there was $317.0 million outstanding under the U.S. commercial paper program, and the euro equivalent of $376.9 million under the European program. The weighted-average interest rate and maturity period for the U.S. program were 2.03% and 21days, respectively. The weighted-average interest rate and maturity period for the European program were (0.24)% and 24.5 days, respectively. 

Senior Notes

On September 4, 2019, Mohawk Capital Finance S.A. (“Mohawk Finance”), an indirect wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the Company, completed the issuance and sale of €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Floating Rate Notes due September 4, 2021 (“2021 Floating Rate Notes”). The 2021 Floating Rate Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Mohawk Finance and rank pari passu with all of Mohawk Finance’s other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The 2021 Floating Rate Notes are fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Company on a senior unsecured basis. These notes bear interest at a rate per annum, reset quarterly, equal to three-month EURIBOR plus 0.2% (but in no event shall the interest rate be less than zero). Interest on the 2021 Floating Rate Notes is payable quarterly on December 4, March 4, June 4, and September 4 of each year. Mohawk Finance received an issuance premium of €0.7 million and paid financing cost of $0.8 million in connection with the 2021 Floating Rate Notes. The issuance premium and financing costs have been deferred and are being amortized over the term of the 2021 Floating Rate Notes.

On May 18, 2018, Mohawk Finance completed the issuance and sale of €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Floating Rate Notes due May 18, 2020 (“2020 Floating Rate Notes”). The 2020 Floating Rate Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Mohawk Finance and rank pari passu with all of Mohawk Finance’s other existing and future senior unsecured 

32
Index to Financial Statements

indebtedness. The 2020 Floating Rate Notes are fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Company on a senior unsecured basis. These notes bear interest at a rate per annum, reset quarterly, equal to three-month EURIBOR plus 0.3% (but in no event shall the interest rate be less than zero). Interest on the 2020 Floating Rate Notes is payable quarterly on August 18, November 18, February 18, and May 18 of each year. Mohawk Finance paid financing costs of $0.9 million in connection with the 2020 Floating Rate Notes. These costs were deferred and are being amortized over the term of the 2020 Floating Rate Notes. 

On September 11, 2017, Mohawk Finance completed the issuance and sale of €300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Floating Rate Notes due September 11, 2019 (“2019 Floating Rate Notes”). The 2019 Floating Rate Notes were senior unsecured obligations of Mohawk Finance and ranked pari passu with all of Mohawk Finance’s other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The 2019 Floating Rate Notes were fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Company on a senior unsecured basis. These notes bore interest at a rate per annum, reset quarterly, equal to three-month EURIBOR plus 0.3% (but in no event would the interest rate be less than zero). Interest on the 2019 Floating Rate Notes was payable quarterly on September 11, December 11, March 11, and June 11 of each year. Mohawk Finance paid financing costs of $0.9 million in connection with the 2019 Floating Rate Notes. These costs were deferred and amortized over the term of the 2019 Floating Rate Notes. On September 11, 2019, the Company paid the remaining €300.0 million outstanding principal of the 2019 Floating Rate Notes utilizing cash on hand and borrowings under its European commercial paper program.

On June 9, 2015, the Company issued €500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.00% Senior Notes due January 14, 2022 (“2.00% Senior Notes”). The 2.00% Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank pari passu with all of the Company’s existing and future unsecured indebtedness. Interest on the 2.00% Senior Notes is payable annually in cash on January 14 of each year, commencing on January 14, 2016. The Company paid financing costs of $4.2 million in connection with the 2.00% Senior Notes. These costs were deferred and are being amortized over the term of the 2.00% Senior Notes. 

On January 31, 2013, the Company issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.85% Senior Notes due February 1, 2023 (“3.85% Senior Notes”). The 3.85% Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank pari passu with all of the Company’s existing and future unsecured indebtedness. Interest on the 3.85% Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in cash on February 1 and August 1 of each year. The Company paid financing costs of $6.0 million in connection with the 3.85% Senior Notes. These costs were deferred and are being amortized over the term of the 3.85% Senior Notes. 

As defined in the related agreements, the Company’s senior notes contain covenants, representations and warranties and events of default, subject to exceptions, and restrictions on the Company’s financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, restrictions on entering into sale and leaseback transactions, fundamental changes, and a provision allowing the holder of the notes to require repayment upon a change of control triggering event.

Other

The Company may continue, from time to time, to retire its outstanding debt through cash purchases in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, the Company’s liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amount involved may be material.

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had cash of $134.8 million, of which $110.0 million was held outside the United States. The Company plans to permanently reinvest the cash held outside the United States. The Company believes that its cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash generated from operations and availability under its Senior Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet its capital expenditure, working capital and debt servicing requirements over the next twelve months.

As of December 31, 2019, the Company has repurchased $374.2 million worth of its shares of common stock pursuant to the $500 million program announced in October 2018. All of these repurchases have been financed through the Company’s operations and existing finance arrangements. See Item 5 - Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Contractual obligations and commitments

The following is a summary of the Company’s future minimum payments under contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2019 (in millions):

33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For fixed rate debt, the Company calculated interest based on the applicable rates and payment dates. For variable rate debt, the Company estimated average outstanding balances for the respective periods and applied interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2019 to these balances.

(2)Includes volume commitments for natural gas, electricity and raw material purchases.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4)Excludes $38.6 million of non-current accrued income tax liabilities and related interest and penalties for uncertain tax positions. These liabilities have not been presented in the table above due to uncertainty as to amounts and timing regarding future payments.

(5)Includes bank guarantees and letters of credit. 

Critical Accounting Policies

In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the Company must make decisions which impact the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of appropriate accounting principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to base accounting estimates. In reaching such decisions, the Company applies judgment based on its understanding and analysis of the relevant circumstances and historical experience. Actual amounts could differ from those estimated at the time the consolidated financial statements are prepared.

The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. Some of those significant accounting policies require the Company to make subjective or complex judgments or estimates. Critical accounting estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of a company’s financial condition and results and require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.

The Company believes the following accounting policies require it to use judgments and estimates in preparing its consolidated financial statements and represent critical accounting policies.

•Accounts receivable and revenue recognition. The Company recognizes revenues when it satisfies performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of the promised goods to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods. The nature of the promised goods are ceramic, stone, carpet, resilient, laminate, wood and other flooring products. Payment is typically received 90 days or less from the invoice date. The Company adjusts the amounts of revenue for expected cash discounts, sales allowances, returns, and claims, based upon historical experience. The Company adjusts accounts receivable for doubtful account allowances based upon historical bad debt, claims experience, periodic evaluation of specific customer accounts, and the aging of 

34
Index to Financial Statements

accounts receivable. If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. A 10% change in the Company’s allowance for discounts, returns, claims and doubtful accounts would have affected net earnings by approximately $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Acquisition Accounting. The fair value of the consideration the Company pays for each new acquisition is allocated to tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets, liabilities assumed, any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity and goodwill. The accounting for acquisitions involves a considerable amount of judgment and estimate, including the fair value of certain forms of consideration; fair value of acquired intangible assets involving projections of future revenues and cash flows that are then either discounted at an estimated discount rate or measured at an estimated royalty rate; fair value of other acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including potential contingencies; and the useful lives of the acquired assets. The assumptions used are determined at the time of the acquisition in accordance with accepted valuation models. Projections are developed using internal forecasts, available industry and market data and estimates of long-term rates of growth for the business. The impact of prior or future acquisitions on the Company’s financial position or results of operations may be materially impacted by the change in or initial selection of assumptions and estimates. See Note 2, Acquisitions for further discussion of business combination accounting valuation methodology and assumptions. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The impairment test for intangible assets not subject to amortization involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Significant judgments inherent in this analysis include assumptions about appropriate sales growth rates, royalty rates, WACC and the amount of expected future cash flows. These judgments and assumptions are subject to the variability discussed above.

The impairment evaluation for indefinite lived intangible assets, which for the Company are its trademarks, is conducted on the first day of the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. The determination of fair value used in the impairment evaluation is based on discounted estimates of future sales projections attributable to ownership of the trademarks. Significant judgments inherent in this analysis include assumptions about appropriate sales growth rates, royalty rates, WACC and the amount of expected future cash flows. The judgments and assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are generally consistent with past performance and are also consistent with the projections and assumptions that are used in operating plans. Such 

35
Index to Financial Statements

assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. The determination of fair value is highly sensitive to differences between estimated and actual cash flows and changes in the related discount rate used to evaluate the fair value of the trademarks. Estimated cash flows are sensitive to changes in the economy among other things.

The Company reviews its long-lived asset groups, which include intangible assets subject to amortization, which for the Company are its patents and customer relationships, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such asset groups may not be recoverable. Recoverability of asset groups to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of long-lived assets to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by these asset groups. If such asset groups are considered to be impaired, the impairment recognized is the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds the fair value of the asset group. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less estimated costs of disposal and are no longer depreciated.

The Company conducted its annual assessment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles on the first day of the fourth quarter and no impairment was indicated for 2019.

•Income taxes. The Company’s effective tax rate is based on its income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s tax expense and in evaluating the Company’s tax positions. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in a future period. The Company evaluates the recoverability of these future tax benefits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income inherently rely on estimates, including business forecasts and other projections of financial results over an extended period of time. In the event that the Company is not able to realize all or a portion of its deferred tax assets in the future, a valuation allowance is provided. The Company would recognize such amounts through a charge to income in the period in which that determination is made or when tax law changes are enacted. For further information regarding the Company’s valuation allowances, see Note 14, Income Taxes.

In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying the Company’s income tax positions. The Company assesses its income tax positions and records tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon the Company’s evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available as of the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the Company has recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information, as required by the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic (“ASC”) 740-10. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the consolidated financial statements. For further information regarding the Company’s uncertain tax positions, see Note 14, Income Taxes.

•Environmental and legal accruals. Environmental and legal accruals are estimates based on judgments made by the Company relating to ongoing environmental and legal proceedings, as disclosed in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In determining whether a liability is probable and reasonably estimable, the Company consults with its internal experts. The Company believes that the amounts recorded in the accompanying financial statements are based on the best estimates and judgments available to it.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1(u), “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, of the Company’s accompanying audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of recent accounting pronouncements including the dates, or expected dates of adoption, and effects, or expected effects, on the Company’s disclosures, results of operations, and financial condition.

36
Index to Financial Statements

Impact of Inflation

Inflation affects the Company’s manufacturing costs, distribution costs and operating expenses. The Company expects raw material prices, many of which are petroleum based, to fluctuate based upon worldwide supply and demand of commodities utilized in the Company’s production processes. Although the Company attempts to pass on increases in raw material, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the Company’s ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the Company’s products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be fully recovered. In the past, the Company has often been able to enhance productivity and develop new product innovations to help offset increases in costs resulting from inflation in its operations.

Seasonality

The Company is a calendar year-end company. With respect to its Global Ceramic segment, the second quarter typically sees higher net sales, followed by the third and first quarters while the fourth quarter shows weaker net sales. For the operating income, the second quarter generally shows the stronger earnings, followed by third and first quarters, and a weaker fourth quarter. The Flooring NA segment’s second quarter typically produces the highest net sales followed by moderate third and fourth quarters, and a weaker first quarter. For the operating income, the third quarter typically shows stronger earnings, followed by second and fourth quarters, and the first quarter shows weaker earnings. The Flooring ROW segment’s fourth quarter historically produces the highest net sales followed by moderate second and third quarters, and a weaker first quarter. For the operating income, generally, the second quarter shows the stronger earnings, followed by third and first quarters, and the fourth quarter shows weaker earnings. 

37
Index to Financial Statements

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk