Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Marketable Securities

We have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. In fiscal 2018, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $30 billion of our common stock. The actions taken pursuant to our stock repurchase program have significantly reduced the amount of cash available to fund our investments in marketable securities. 

Equity Price Risk. At September 27, 2020, the recorded value of our marketable equity securities was $352 million. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at September 27, 2020 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $35 million. A 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at September 29, 2019 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $42 million.

Interest Rate Risk. We invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed- and floating-rate securities consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and time and demand deposits that are subject to interest rate risk. At September 27, 2020, a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a decrease of $32 million in the fair value of our holdings. At September 29, 2019, a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a negligible decrease in the fair value of our holdings. 

Other Investments

Equity Price Risk. We hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, the rapid, global spread of COVID-19 and the uncertainty it has created has resulted in significant volatility in the condition of economies and financial markets globally and has led to a global recession. This has adversely affected certain of our non-marketable equity investments. Volatility in the equity markets could negatively affect our investees’ ability to raise additional capital as well as our ability to realize value from our investments through initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. Consequently, we could incur significant losses on our non-marketable equity investments. At September 27, 2020, the aggregate carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was included in other noncurrent assets and was $982 million.

Debt

Interest Rate Risk. As substantially all of our debt is comprised of unsecured fixed-rate notes, we are not subject to significant interest rate risk. At September 27, 2020, we had an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in unsecured floating-rate notes due January 30, 2023. The interest rates on our floating-rate notes are based on LIBOR. At September 27, 2020, a hypothetical increase in LIBOR-based interest rates of 100 basis points would cause a negligible increase to interest expense on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes. At September 27, 2020, we also had $500 million in commercial paper outstanding, for which our exposure to interest rate risk is negligible based on the original maturities of approximately three months or less. 

Additional information regarding our notes and commercial paper program is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Debt.”

Foreign Exchange Risk 

We manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. We utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculative purposes. Counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. In the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. A description of our foreign currency accounting policies is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies.”

Foreign Currency Options. At September 27, 2020, our net liability related to foreign currency options designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees was negligible. If our forecasted royalty revenues for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 10% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. Based on forecasts at September 29, 2019, assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, we would also not have incurred a loss.

Foreign Currency Forwards. At September 27, 2020, our net asset related to foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on certain operating expenditure transactions was $49 million. If our forecasted operating expenditures for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 10% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. Based on forecasts at September 29, 2019, assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, we would also not have incurred a loss.

50

At September 27, 2020, our net liability related to foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments used to manage foreign currency risk on certain receivables and payables was negligible. If the foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as the change in the fair value of the foreign currency option and forward contracts would be offset by the change in fair value of the related receivables and/or payables being economically hedged. Based on forecasts at September 29, 2019, assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, we would also not have incurred a loss.

Net Investment Hedges. At September 27, 2020, we have designated $1.4 billion of foreign currency-denominated liabilities, excluding accrued interest, as hedges of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. If foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, there would be an increase of $144 million in the accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment at September 27, 2020 related to our net investment hedges. The change in value recorded in cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries.

Functional Currency. Financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. As a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. As a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. While we may hedge certain transactions with non-U.S. customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies.

Our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data