Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Because a portion of the Company’s net revenues are derived from its operations outside the U.S. and are denominated in

local currencies, the Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the Company’s foreign subsidiaries. Exchange rates impact the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s reported revenues, expenses, earnings, assets and liabilities.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, approximately 22% of the Company’s revenues were generated outside of the United States. These operations transact business in their functional currency, which is the same as their local currency. As a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly the Canadian dollar, British pound, Euro, and Australian dollar have an impact on the Company’s reported results. Under GAAP, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. Consequently, as the value of the U.S. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the Company’s non-U.S. markets, the Company’s reported results vary.

During 2019, the U.S. dollar fluctuated, but generally strengthened, against the primary currencies in which the Company conducts business, compared to one year ago. Currency exchange rates had the effect of decreasing reported service revenues by $62.8 million, or 1.1%, in 2019 compared to prior year. The general strengthening of the U.S. dollar also affected the reported level of expenses incurred in the Company’s foreign operations. Because substantially all of the Company’s foreign operations generated revenues and incurred expenses within the same country and currency, the effect of lower reported revenues is largely offset by the decrease in reported operating expenses. Reported net income was $2.5 million, or 0.6%, lower in the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to prior year due to the effect of currency exchange rates.

For the one month ended January 31, 2020, the U.S. dollar has strengthened against the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar since December 31, 2019. If currency exchange rates were to remain at January 2020 levels throughout 2020, the Company’s 2020 full-year reported revenues would be impacted unfavorably, mostly offset by a favorable impact to operating expenses. Thus, the impact to reported net income would likely be immaterial. 

Fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the U.S. dollar amount of the Company’s stockholders’ equity. The assets and liabilities of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Although currency fluctuations impact the Company’s reported results and shareholders’ equity, such fluctuations generally do not affect cash flow or result in actual economic gains or losses. The Company generally has few cross-border transfers of funds, except for transfers to the U.S. for payment of intercompany loans, working capital loans made between the U.S. and the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, and dividends from the Company’s foreign subsidiaries.

20

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data