Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Certain information contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in other parts of this report may be deemed forward-looking statements regarding events and financial trends that may affect the Company’s future operating results or financial positions. These statements may be identified by words such as “estimate”, “forecast”, “project”, “plan”, “intend”, “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, or variations or negatives thereof or by similar or comparable words or phrases. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: changes to or new interpretations of U.S. or international tax regulations; the global financial and economic situation; changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in the United States or foreign countries where the Company does business, or in particular regions or industries; reduction in the supply of candidates for temporary employment or the Company’s ability to attract candidates; the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing competitors; the ability of the Company to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any change in the demand for the Company’s services, on the Company’s ability to maintain its margins; the possibility of the Company incurring liability for its activities, including the activities of its engagement professionals, or for events impacting its engagement professionals on clients’ premises; the possibility that adverse publicity could impact the Company’s ability to attract and retain clients and candidates; the success of the Company in attracting, training, and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees and in managing the recently announced leadership transition; the Company’s ability to comply with governmental regulations affecting personnel services businesses in particular or employer/employee relationships in general; whether there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; the Company’s reliance on short-term contracts for a significant percentage of its business; litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities, including litigation that may be disclosed from time to time in the Company’s Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings; the ability of the Company to manage its international operations and comply with foreign laws and regulations; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the possibility that the additional costs the Company will incur as a result of health care reform legislation may adversely affect the Company’s profit margins or the demand for the Company’s services; the possibility that the Company’s computer and communications hardware and software systems could be damaged or their service interrupted or the Company could experience a cybersecurity breach; and the possibility that the Company may fail to maintain adequate financial and management controls and as a result suffer errors in its financial reporting. Additionally, with respect to Protiviti, other risks and uncertainties include the fact that future success will depend on its ability to retain employees and attract clients; there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; failure to produce projected revenues could adversely affect financial results; and there is the possibility of involvement in litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities. Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the Company’s business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. Further information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties is contained in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

Executive Overview

Demand for the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services is largely dependent upon general economic and labor trends both domestically and abroad. Annual service revenues reached $6.07 billion in 2019, an increase of 5% from the prior year. Full-year 2019 net income increased to $454 million and diluted net income per share increased to $3.90. All three of the Company’s reportable segments experienced revenue growth, led by risk consulting and internal audit services which increased 18% in 2019 compared to last year.

We believe that the Company is well positioned in the current macroeconomic environment. The United States economic backdrop during 2019 was conducive to growth for the Company as real gross domestic product (“GDP”) grew an estimated 2.3%, while the unemployment rate declined from 3.9% in December 2018 to 3.5% in December 2019. In the United States, the number of job openings has exceeded the number of hires since February 2015, creating competition for skilled talent that increases the Company’s value to clients. The U.S. labor market remains robust, with significant demand due to talent shortages across our professional disciplines, where unemployment remains near a 50-year low.

Demand for Protiviti’s services was broad-based across all of its consulting and internal audit solutions. Protiviti continues to nurture and grow a loyal client base. 

We monitor various economic indicators and business trends in all of the countries in which we operate to anticipate demand for the Company’s services. We evaluate these trends to determine the appropriate level of investment, including personnel, which will best position the Company for success in the current and future global macroeconomic environment. The 

14

Company’s investments in headcount are typically structured to proactively support and align with expected revenue growth trends. As such, during 2019, we added headcount in all of our lines of business compared to prior year-end levels.

We have limited visibility into future revenues not only due to the dependence on macroeconomic conditions noted above, but also because of the relatively short duration of the Company’s client engagements. Accordingly, we typically assess headcount and other investments on at least a quarterly basis. That said, based on current trends and conditions, we expect headcount levels for our full-time staff to remain relatively flat for each of our reporting segments throughout the first quarter of 2020. 

Capital expenditures, including $30 million related to cloud computing implementations, in 2019, totaled $90 million, approximately 62% of which represented investments in software initiatives and technology infrastructure, both of which are important to the Company’s future growth opportunities. Capital expenditures for cloud computing implementation costs are included in cash flows from operating activities on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Capital expenditures also included amounts spent on tenant improvements and furniture and equipment in the Company’s leased offices. We currently expect that 2020 capitalized expenditures will range from $100 million to $110 million, of which $50 million to $60 million relates to software initiatives and technology infrastructure, including capitalized costs relating to the implementation of cloud computing arrangements.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

As described below, the Company’s most critical accounting policies and estimates are those that involve subjective decisions or assessments.

Service Revenues. The Company derives its revenues from three segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing, and risk consulting and internal audit services. Revenues are recognized when promised goods or services are delivered to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. See Note C—“Revenue Recognition” to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II—Item 8 of this report.

Income Taxes. The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes. In establishing its deferred income tax assets and liabilities and its provision for income taxes, the Company makes judgments and interpretations based on the enacted tax laws that are applicable to its operations in various jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured and recorded using current enacted tax rates, which the Company expects will apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are recovered or settled. The likelihood of a material change in the Company’s expected realization of its deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income and the effectiveness of its tax planning in the various relevant jurisdictions.

The Company also evaluates the need for valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to realizable amounts. Management evaluates all positive and negative evidence and uses judgment regarding past and future events, including operating results, to help determine when it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets may not be realized. When appropriate, a valuation allowance is recorded against deferred tax assets to offset future tax benefits that may not be realized. Valuation allowances of $21.6 million and $23.1 million were recorded as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The valuation allowances recorded relate primarily to net operating losses in certain foreign operations. If such losses are ultimately utilized to offset future operating income, the Company will recognize a tax benefit up to the full amount of the related valuation reserve. 

While management believes that its judgments and interpretations regarding income taxes are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience may materially affect the future financial results of the Company.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note B—“New Accounting Pronouncements” to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II—Item 8 of this report.

Results of Operations

Demand for the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services is largely dependent upon general economic and labor market conditions both domestically and abroad. Because of the inherent difficulty in predicting economic trends and the absence of material long-term contracts in any of the Company’s business units, future demand for the Company’s services cannot be forecasted with certainty. We believe the Company is well positioned in the current macroeconomic environment. 

15

The Company’s temporary and permanent staffing business conducts placement activities through 326 offices in 42 states, the District of Columbia and 17 foreign countries, while Protiviti has 62 offices in 23 states and 11 foreign countries.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The financial results of the Company are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and the rules of the SEC. To help readers understand the Company’s financial performance, the Company supplements its GAAP financial results with revenue growth rates derived from non-GAAP revenue amounts. 

Variations in the Company’s financial results include the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, billing days, and certain intercompany adjustments. The Company provides “as adjusted” revenue growth calculations to remove the impact of these items. These calculations show the year-over-year revenue growth rates for the Company’s reportable segments on both a reported basis and also on an as adjusted basis for global, U.S. and international operations. The Company has provided this data because it focuses on the Company’s revenue growth rates attributable to operating activities and aids in evaluating revenue trends over time. The Company expresses year-over-year revenue changes as calculated percentages using the same number of billing days, constant currency exchange rates, and certain intercompany adjustments.

In order to calculate constant currency revenue growth rates, as reported amounts are retranslated using foreign currency exchange rates from the prior year’s comparable period. Management then calculates a global, weighted-average number of billing days for each reporting period based upon input from all countries and all lines of business. In order to remove the fluctuations caused by comparable periods having different billing days, the Company calculates same billing day revenue growth rates by dividing each comparative period’s reported revenues by the calculated number of billing days for that period to arrive at a per billing day amount. Same billing day growth rates are then calculated based upon the per billing day amounts. In order to remove the fluctuations caused by the impact of certain intercompany adjustments, applicable comparative period revenues are reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. The term “as adjusted” means that the impact of different billing days, constant currency fluctuations, and certain intercompany adjustments are removed from the revenue growth rate calculation.

The non-GAAP financial measures provided herein may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in the Company’s industry, as other companies may calculate such financial results differently. The Company’s non-GAAP financial measures are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP, and should not be considered as alternatives to actual revenue growth derived from revenue amounts presented in accordance with GAAP. The Company does not consider these non-GAAP financial measures to be a substitute for, or superior to, the information provided by GAAP financial results. A reconciliation of the as adjusted revenue growth rates to the reported revenue growth rates is provided herein.

Refer to Item 7a. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further discussion of the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

Years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 

Revenues. The Company’s revenues were $6.07 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, increasing by 4.7% compared to $5.80 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. Revenues from foreign operations represented 22% and 24% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company analyzes its revenues for three reportable segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing and risk consulting and internal audit services. In 2019, revenues for all three of the Company’s reportable segments were up compared to 2018. Revenue growth was strongest domestically. Risk consulting and internal audit services continued to post strong growth rates. Contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail.

Temporary and consultant staffing revenues were $4.41 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, increasing by 1.9% compared to revenues of $4.33 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. Key drivers of temporary and consultant staffing revenues include average hourly bill rates and the number of hours worked by the Company’s engagement professionals on client engagements. On an as adjusted basis, temporary and consultant staffing revenues increased 3.8% for 2019, compared to 2018, due primarily to a 5.2% increase in average bill rates, partially offset by fewer hours worked by the Company’s engagement professionals. In the U.S., 2019 revenues increased 3.9% on an as reported basis and 4.1% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. For the Company’s international operations, 2019 revenues decreased 4.8% on an as reported basis and increased 2.8% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018.

Permanent placement staffing revenues were $533 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, increasing by 4.2% compared to revenues of $512 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Key drivers of permanent placement staffing revenues consist of the number of candidate placements and average fees earned per placement. On an as adjusted basis, 

16

permanent placement staffing revenues increased 5.6% for 2019 compared to 2018, driven by increases in number of placements and average fees earned per placement. In the U.S., 2019 revenues increased 6.5% on an as reported basis and 6.7% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. For the Company’s international operations, 2019 revenues decreased 0.8% on an as reported basis, and increased 2.9% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. Historically, demand for permanent placement services is even more sensitive to economic and labor market conditions than demand for temporary and consulting staffing and this is expected to continue.

Risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $1.13 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, increasing by 17.9% compared to revenues of $958 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Key drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services revenues are the billable hours worked by consultants on client engagements and average hourly bill rates. On an as adjusted basis, risk consulting and internal audit services revenues increased 15.0% for 2019 compared to 2018, driven primarily by an increase in billable hours. In the U.S., 2019 revenues increased 16.2% on an as reported basis, or 16.5% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018. For the Company’s international operations, 2019 revenues increased 24.1% on an as reported basis, or 10.1% on an as adjusted basis, compared to 2018.

A reconciliation of the non-GAAP year-over-year revenue growth rates to the as reported year-over-year revenue growth rates for the year ended December 31, 2019, is presented in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross Margin. The Company’s gross margin dollars were $2.53 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, up 5.0% from $2.41 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. Contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail.

Gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing represent revenues less costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and benefit costs for engagement professionals, and reimbursable expenses. The key drivers of gross margin are: i) pay-bill spreads, which represent the differential between wages paid to engagement professionals and amounts billed to clients; ii) fringe costs, which are primarily composed of payroll taxes and benefit costs for temporary and consultant staffing employees; and iii) conversion revenues, which are earned when a temporary position converts to a permanent position with the Company’s client. Gross margin dollars for the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.68 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, up 2.9% from $1.63 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for temporary and consultant staffing were 38.0% in 2019, up from 37.6% in 2018. This year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage was primarily attributable to higher pay-bill spreads.

Gross margin dollars for permanent placement staffing represent revenues less reimbursable expenses. Gross margin dollars for the Company’s permanent placement staffing division were $532 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, up 4.2% from $511 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Because reimbursable expenses for permanent placement staffing services are de minimis, the increase in gross margin dollars is substantially explained by the increase in revenues previously discussed.

17

Gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, benefit costs and reimbursable expenses. The primary drivers of risk consulting and internal audit services gross margin are: i) the relative composition of and number of professional staff and their respective pay and bill rates; and ii) staff utilization, which is the relationship of time spent on client engagements in proportion to the total time available for the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit services staff. Gross margin dollars for the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit division were $321 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, up 19.0% from $269 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services were 28.4% in 2019, up from 28.1% in 2018. The year-over-year improvement in gross margin percentage was due primarily to improved staff utilization.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, variable overhead, depreciation and occupancy costs. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses were $1.91 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, up 4.8% from $1.82 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. As a percentage of revenues, the Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses were 31.4% for both the years ended December 31, 2019, and 2018. Contributing factors for each reportable segment are discussed below in further detail.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing division were $1.27 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, increasing by 3.5% from $1.22 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for temporary and consultant staffing were 28.7% in 2019, up from 28.3% in 2018 due primarily to negative leverage resulting from the Company’s international operations. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Company’s permanent placement staffing division were $449 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, increasing by 6.7% from $420 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for permanent placement staffing services were 84.1% in 2019, up from 82.1% in 2018 due primarily to negative leverage resulting from the Company’s international operations.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit services division were $193 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, increasing by 9.6% from $176 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses for risk consulting and internal audit services were 17.1% in 2019, down from 18.4% in 2018. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue is primarily due to positive operating leverage resulting from increased revenue.

Operating Income. The Company’s total operating income was $622 million, or 10.2% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2019, up 5.6% from $589 million, or 10.2% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2018. For the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing division, operating income was $410 million, or 9.3% of applicable revenues, up 1.3% from $405 million, or 9.3% of applicable revenues, in 2018. For the Company’s permanent placement staffing division, operating income was $84 million, or 15.7% of applicable revenues, down 7.6% from operating income of $91 million, or 17.7% of applicable revenues, in 2018. For the Company’s risk consulting and internal audit services division, operating income was $128 million, or 11.3% of applicable revenues, up 36.8% from operating income of $93 million, or 9.7% of applicable revenues, in 2018.

Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was 27.4% and 26.6% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The higher tax rate in 2019 is primarily due to an increase in permanent non-deductible expenses and a return-to-provision tax rate benefit from changes the Company made in connection with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2018.

Years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 

A discussion of changes regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 15, 2019, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and at www.roberthalf.com/investor-center.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The change in the Company’s liquidity during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, is primarily the net effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for capital expenditures, payments for employee deferred compensation plans, repurchases of common stock, and payment of dividends.

18

Cash and cash equivalents were $270 million and $277 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Operating activities provided $520 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, offset by $102 million and $423 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. Operating activities provided $572 million during the year ended December 31, 2018, offset by $89 million and $490 million of net cash used in investing activities and financing activities, respectively. 

Operating activities—Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, was $520 million. This was composed of net income of $454 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $118 million, offset by changes in working capital of $52 million. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2018, was $572 million. This was composed of net income of $434 million adjusted upward for non-cash items of $107 million and net cash provided by changes in working capital of $31 million.

Investing activities—Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, was $102 million. This was composed of capital expenditures of $59 million and net payments for employee deferred compensation plans of $43 million. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018, was $89 million. This was primarily composed of capital expenditures of $43 million and net payments for employee deferred compensation plans of $46 million.

Financing activities—Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, was $423 million. This included repurchases of $277 million in common stock and $146 million in dividends paid to stockholders. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018, was $490 million. This included repurchases of $354 million in common stock and $136 million in dividends paid to stockholders.

As of December 31, 2019, the Company is authorized to repurchase, from time to time, up to 2.5 million additional shares of the Company’s common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 4.3 million shares and 5.6 million shares of common stock on the open market for a total cost of $250 million and $351 million, respectively. Additional stock repurchases were made in connection with employee stock plans, whereby Company shares were tendered by employees for the payment of applicable statutory withholding taxes. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, such repurchases totaled approximately 0.4 million shares and 0.2 million shares at a cost of $22 million and $14 million, respectively. Repurchases of shares have been funded with cash generated from operations.

The Company’s working capital at December 31, 2019, included $270 million in cash and cash equivalents. The Company expects that internally generated cash will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the Company, the Company’s fixed payments, dividends, and other obligations on both a short-term and long-term basis.

In March 2019, the Company entered into an uncommitted credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) of up to $100 million. The Company may request borrowings under the Credit Agreement that are denominated in U.S. dollars and each request is subject to approval by the lender. The Company must repay the aggregate principal amount of loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement on the termination date of each borrowing. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest in accordance with the terms of the borrowing, which typically will be calculated according to the London Interbank Offered Rate plus an applicable margin. There were no borrowings under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2019. The Company intends to renew this facility prior to its March 19, 2020, expiration.

On February 12, 2020, the Company announced a quarterly dividend of $.34 per share to be paid to all shareholders of record on February 25, 2020. The dividend will be paid on March 16, 2020.

The Company’s cash flows generated from operations are also the primary source for funding various contractual obligations. The table below summarizes the Company’s major commitments as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

19

Long-term debt obligations consist of promissory notes and related interest as well as other forms of indebtedness issued in connection with certain acquisitions and other payment obligations. Operating lease obligations consist of undiscounted minimum rental commitments for 2020 and thereafter under non-cancelable lease contracts executed as of December 31, 2019. Purchase obligations consist of purchase commitments primarily related to telecom service agreements, software subscriptions, and computer hardware and software maintenance agreements. Other liabilities consist of asset retirement and deferred compensation obligations.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk