ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OVERVIEW

Introduction

Raytheon Company develops technologically advanced and integrated products, services and solutions in our core markets: integrated air and missile defense; electronic warfare; command, control, communications, computers, cyber, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; space systems; effects; and cyber. We serve both domestic and international customers primarily as a prime contractor or subcontractor on a broad portfolio of defense and related programs for government customers. 

We operate in five segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS); Intelligence, Information and Services (IIS); Missile Systems (MS); Space and Airborne Systems (SAS); and Forcepoint. For a more detailed description of our segments, see “Business Segments” within Item 1 of this Form 10-K.

As previously announced, effective January 1, 2019, we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) using the modified retrospective approach as discussed in “Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We reclassified certain balance sheet amounts to conform to our current period presentation. 

On June 9, 2019, Raytheon and United Technologies Corporation (UTC) entered into an agreement to combine in an all-stock merger of equals. The merger is targeted to close early in the second quarter of 2020, subject to and following completion by UTC of the separations and distributions of its Otis and Carrier businesses. Under the terms of the agreement, Raytheon stockholders will receive 2.3348 shares of UTC common stock for each Raytheon share. The agreement provides that upon completion of the merger, UTC stockholders will own approximately 57% and Raytheon stockholders will own approximately 43% of the outstanding shares of common stock of UTC. In addition, the agreement generally restricts certain actions by both Raytheon and UTC. The merger was approved by Raytheon's stockholders at a special meeting of Raytheon held on October 11, 2019, and was approved by UTC stockholders at a special meeting of UTC held on October 11, 2019. For additional information refer to “Note 2: Proposed Merger with United Technologies Corporation (UTC)” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Business Environment

Domestic Considerations

U.S. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for 69% of our total net sales in 2019. Our principal U.S. government customer is the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD).

 36
DoD funding levels, which are subject to budget and appropriation decisions and processes, are difficult to predict beyond the near-term. The Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) imposed spending caps on DoD funding for fiscal years (FY) 2012 to 2021, however the caps have been raised each year since FY 2013, most recently by the Bipartisan Budget Act (BBA) of 2019 for FY 2020 and FY 2021. DoD modernization funding, which consists of procurement and research and development, is of particular importance to defense contractors. DoD modernization funding has steadily increased since FY 2015, including for FY 2020, as a result of the BBA of 2015, the BBA of 2018, and the BBA of 2019. However, future DoD spending levels are uncertain given the lapse in the BCA after FY 2021 and will require the agreement and action of both Congress and the President.

In addition to the DoD budget considerations discussed above, future domestic defense spending levels are impacted by a number of additional factors, including external threats to U.S. national security, funding for on-going counter insurgency/counter terrorism operations overseas, the priorities of the Administration and Congress, overall health of the U.S. and world economies, and the state of governmental finances. However, we expect the DoD to continue to prioritize and protect the key capabilities required to execute its National Defense Strategy, including being able to deter and defeat peer nation threats. Such capabilities include Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR), cybersecurity, missile defense, electronic warfare, kinetic and non-kinetic effectors, undersea warfare, space systems, unmanned systems, special operations forces and interoperability with allied forces. We believe those priorities are well aligned with our product offerings, technologies, services and capabilities.

We currently are involved in tens of thousands of contracts, with no single contract accounting for more than 5% of our total net sales in 2019. Although we believe our diverse portfolio of programs and capabilities is well suited to a changing defense environment, we face numerous challenges and risks, as discussed above. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact the U.S. government’s demand for our products and services, see Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

International Considerations

In 2019, our sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for 29% of our total net sales (including foreign military sales through the U.S. government). Internationally, the growing threat of additional terrorist activity, cyber threats, emerging nuclear states, long-range missiles and conventional military threats have led to an increase in demand for defense systems and services and other security solutions. In Asia, both short- and long-term regional security concerns are increasing demand for air and missile defense, air/naval modernization and maritime security. In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), threats from state and non-state actors are increasing demand for air and missile defense (including counter-unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) systems), air/land/naval force modernization, precision engagement, ISR, maritime and border security, and cybersecurity solutions. Given such threat environments, we expect our MENA customers to continue to prioritize security investments even if their budgets are impacted by volatile short-term energy prices. In Europe, some countries have begun to increase spending in response to geopolitical events and conflicts in Eastern Europe and the resulting uncertainty in the security threat environment. Based on these factors, we expect that European nations will continue to seek advanced air and missile defense and other capabilities, including ISR and cyber. Overall, we believe many international defense budgets have the potential to grow at a faster rate than the U.S. defense budget. However, international demand is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers and geopolitical uncertainties, which may be driven by changes in threat environments, volatility in worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, U.S. foreign policy and other risks and uncertainties. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact international demand for and our ability to sell our products and services, see Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Because of the breadth of our offerings, our systems integration capability, the value of our solutions and our strong legacy in the international marketplace, we believe that we are well positioned to continue to grow our international business. We continue to enhance our focus on global growth through increased investment in our international business in existing and new international markets. Such investment provides additional resources and capabilities, both in-country and in the U.S., that strengthen the Company’s position to pursue both existing and new opportunities. We also continue to adjust our international business activities to address customer priorities. Although we believe our international business is well positioned to continue to grow, we recognize that we face substantial competition from both U.S. companies and other competitors in international markets, as well as the challenges of changing budget priorities, overall spending pressures, geopolitical uncertainties and the timing of contract awards.

 37
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes foreign military sales through the U.S. government.

Our Strategy

The following are the broad elements of our strategy:

–Build upon our areas of strength within our key mission areas;

–Focus additional resources on emerging opportunities within the DoD market;

–Extend Raytheon’s advanced cyber solutions beyond the U.S. government into international and commercial markets; and

–Engage key countries as individual markets with multiple customers.

We believe that our broad mix of technologies, domain expertise and key capabilities, our cost-effective, best-value solutions and the alignment of these strengths with customer needs position us favorably to grow in our key mission areas of: integrated air and missile defense; electronic warfare; command, control, communications, computers, cyber, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; space systems; effects; and cyber. Globally, customers are increasingly seeking cost-effective mission solutions. These solutions can take the form of new electronics or electronic upgrades, but draw on our market focus area capabilities, deep domain expertise and system architecture skills. We continue to explore opportunities to make these affordable solutions more readily available to our international customers, including through enhanced design for export and releasability. We also continue to make investments to support our strategy, including through acquisitions and research and development. We seek to continuously innovate and refresh technology in our current franchises—advanced solution sets for which we expect longer-term customer demand, such as our Patriot Air and Missile Defense (A&MD) system, Air and Missile Defense Radar (AMDR), and Lower Tier Air and Missile Defense Sensor (LTAMDS)—and we use the related expertise to work to create new franchises and expand internationally. Moreover, we expect to continue to expand our customer base in key countries.

We provide cyber capabilities to government customers, including the Intelligence Community, the DoD, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and other defense and civil global customers, as well as embed information assurance capabilities in our products and our information technology infrastructure. We believe cyber markets continue to represent strong growth markets for Raytheon. We expect to continue to seek opportunities to leverage our extensive cyber capabilities and to grow and scale our cyber businesses.

Focus on the Customer and Execution

Our customer focus continues to be critical to the execution of our strategy—underpinned by a focus on performance, relationships and solutions. Performance means being able to meet customer commitments, which is ensured through strong processes, metrics and oversight. We maintain a “process architecture” that spans our defense businesses and our broad programs and pursuits. It consists of enterprisewide processes and systems such as: our Integrated Product Development System (IPDS), which assures consistency of evaluation and execution at each step in a program’s life-cycle; Product Data Management (PDM), which is our business system software for engineering; Achieving Process Excellence (APEX), which is our SAP business system software for accounting, finance and program management; Process Re-Invention Integrating Systems for Manufacturing (PRISM), which is our SAP software for manufacturing operations; Advanced Company Estimating System (ACES), which is our cost proposal system; and Raytheon Enterprise Supplier Assessment (RESA) tool for Supply Chain Management. These processes and systems are linked to an array of front-end and back-end metrics. With this structure, we are able to track results and be alerted to potential issues through numerous oversight mechanisms, including operating reviews and annual operating plan reviews. 

We are also continuing to build strong customer relationships by working with customers as partners and including them on Raytheon Six Sigma™ teams to jointly improve their programs and processes. We are increasingly focused on responding to our customers’ changing requirements with rapid and effective solutions to real-world problems. In recognition of our customers’ constraints and priorities, we also continue to drive various cost reductions across the Company by continuing to focus on enterprise collaboration and improving productivity and strong execution throughout our programs. We have worked to reduce costs across the Company and improve efficiencies in our production facilities, and we continue to increase value through Raytheon Six Sigma, the implementation of lean processes, reduced cycle times and strategic supply chain initiatives, 

 38
in addition to other initiatives. To further increase efficiencies, we are also developing and applying new technologies to our development and production solutions. These technologies include additive manufacturing (AM) for rapid prototyping and novel product realization, and data analytics and machine learning to optimize production and product test. 

FINANCIAL SUMMARY

We use the following key financial performance measures to manage our business on a consolidated basis and by business segment, and to monitor and assess our results of operations:

–Bookings—a forward-looking metric that measures the value of firm orders awarded to us during the year;

–Net Sales—a growth metric that measures our revenue for the current year;

–Operating Income—a measure of our profit from continuing operations for the year, before non-operating expenses, net and taxes; and

–Operating Margin—a measure of our operating income as a percentage of total net sales.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Backlog, which is equivalent to our remaining performance obligations, represents the dollar value of firm orders for which work has not been performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and generally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments. Therefore, we discuss changes in backlog, including any individually significant cancellations, for each of our segments, as we believe such discussion provides an understanding of the awarded but not executed portions of our contracts. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g., indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ)). Backlog is affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.

In addition, we maintain a strong focus on program execution and the prudent management of capital and investments in order to maximize operating income and cash. We focus on earnings per share (EPS) and measures to assess our cash generation and the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital, such as free cash flow (FCF) and return on invested capital (ROIC), both of which are not defined measurements under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and may be calculated differently by other companies.

Considered together, we believe these metrics are strong indicators of our overall performance and our ability to create shareholder value. We feel these measures are balanced among long-term and short-term performance, efficiency and growth. We also use these and other performance metrics for executive compensation purposes.

A discussion of our results of operations and financial condition follows below in Consolidated Results of Operations, Segment Results, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and Capital Resources.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Our consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty; therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe the estimates set forth below may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application than our other accounting estimates and represent the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe our judgments related to these accounting estimates are appropriate. However, if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results could be materially different from the amounts recorded.

 39
Revenue Recognition

We determine the appropriate revenue recognition for our contracts with customers by analyzing the type, terms and conditions of each contract or arrangement with a customer. We classify contract revenues as product or service according to the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contracts unless the contract can clearly be split between product and service. We define service revenue as revenue from activities that are not associated with the design, development or production of tangible assets, the delivery of software code or capability design. Our service revenue is primarily related to our IIS business segment.

The following provides additional information about our contracts with customers, the judgments we make in accounting for those contracts, and the resulting amounts recognized in our financial statements.

Accounting for long-term contracts for complex aerospace or defense equipment (or related services)—To determine the proper revenue recognition method for contracts for complex aerospace or defense equipment or related services, we evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as one single contract and whether the combined or single contract should be accounted for as more than one performance obligation. This evaluation requires significant judgment and the decision to combine a group of contracts or separate the combined or single contract into multiple performance obligations could change the amount of revenue and profit recorded in a given period. For most of our contracts, the customer contracts with us to provide a significant service of integrating a complex set of tasks and components into a single project or capability (even if that single project results in the delivery of multiple units). Hence, the entire contract is accounted for as one performance obligation. Less commonly, however, we may promise to provide distinct goods or services within a contract, for example when a contract covers multiple phases of the product lifecycle (e.g., development, production, maintenance and support), in which case we separate the contract into more than one performance obligation. If a contract is separated into more than one performance obligation, we allocate the total transaction price to each performance obligation in an amount based on the estimated relative standalone selling prices of the promised goods or services underlying each performance obligation. We infrequently sell standard products with observable standalone sales. In cases where we do, the observable standalone sales are used to determine the standalone selling price. More frequently, we sell a customized customer specific solution, and in these cases we typically use the expected cost plus a margin approach to estimate the standalone selling price of each performance obligation.

We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. For certain contracts that meet the foregoing requirements, primarily international direct commercial sale contracts, we are required to obtain certain regulatory approvals. In these cases, we recognize revenue based on the likelihood of obtaining regulatory approvals based upon all known facts and circumstances.

We generally recognize revenue over time as we perform on our contractual performance obligations because of continuous transfer of control to the customer. For U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work in process as evidenced either by contractual termination clauses or by our rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternative use to the Company.

Because of control transferring over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. We generally use the cost-to-cost measure of progress for our contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. The majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to produce products or perform services under contracts with the U.S. government, as determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). The FAR provides guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. government contracts. Costs to fulfill include labor, materials and subcontractors’ costs, other direct costs and an allocation of indirect costs including pension and any other postretirement benefit (PRB) expense under U.S. government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS).

 40
Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of our performance obligations, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion (the process described below in more detail) is complex, subject to many variables and requires significant judgment by management on a contract by contract basis. It is common for our long-term contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees, or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. We include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. Our estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us.

Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. We consider contract modifications to exist when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations. Most of our contract modifications are for goods or services that are not distinct from the existing contract due to the significant integration service provided in the context of the contract and are accounted for as if they were part of that existing contract. The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates, is recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis. 

We have a companywide standard and disciplined quarterly Estimate at Completion (EAC) process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations. As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities and the related changes in estimates of revenues and costs. The risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the schedule (e.g., the number and type of milestone events), technical requirements (e.g., a newly-developed product versus a mature product) and other contract requirements. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the performance obligation (e.g., to estimate increases in wages and prices for materials and related support cost allocations), execution by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer, and overhead cost rates, among other variables. These estimates also include the estimated cost of satisfying our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes in the form of either offset obligations or in-country industrial participation (ICIP) agreements, required under certain contracts. These obligations may or may not be distinct depending on their nature. 

Based on this analysis, any quarterly adjustments to net sales, cost of sales and the related impact to operating income are recognized as necessary in the period they become known. These adjustments may result from positive program performance, and may result in an increase in operating income during the performance of individual performance obligations, if we determine we will be successful in mitigating risks surrounding the technical, schedule and cost aspects of those performance obligations or realizing related opportunities. Likewise, these adjustments may result in a decrease in operating income if we determine we will not be successful in mitigating these risks or realizing related opportunities. Changes in estimates of net sales, cost of sales and the related impact to operating income are recognized quarterly on a cumulative catch-up basis, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods based on a performance obligation’s percentage of completion. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our performance obligations. When estimates of total costs to be incurred exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned on a performance obligation related to complex aerospace or defense equipment or related services, or product maintenance or separately priced extended warranty, a provision for the entire loss on the performance obligation is recognized in the period the loss is identified.

 41
Net EAC adjustments had the following impact on our operating results:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Amounts reflect a U.S. statutory tax rate of 21%, which became effective in 2018 with the adoption of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (2017 Act). 

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Costs

We have pension plans covering the majority of our employees hired prior to January 1, 2007, including certain employees in foreign countries (Pension Benefits). We must apply both Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) requirements under U.S. GAAP and Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements. U.S. GAAP outlines the methodology used to determine net periodic pension and PRB expense or income for financial reporting purposes (FAS expense). CAS prescribes the allocation to and recovery of pension and PRB costs on U.S. government contracts (CAS expense). The CAS requirements for pension and PRB costs and its calculation methodology differ from the FAS requirements and calculation methodology. As a result, while both CAS and FAS calculation methodologies use long-term assumptions requiring judgment, each method results in different calculated amounts of pension and PRB cost. In addition, we are subject to the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), which amended the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Under the PPA, we are required to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven-year period as determined annually based upon the PPA calculated funded status at the beginning of each year. The funding requirements are primarily based on the year’s expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities. Due to the differences in requirements and calculation methodologies, our FAS expense is not indicative of the PPA funding requirements. 

The results of each segment only include pension and PRB expense as determined under CAS. Our FAS expense is split between operating income and non-operating income where only the service cost component of FAS expense is included in operating income. The difference between our CAS expense and the service cost component of our FAS expense is the FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment and is reported as a separate line in our segment results. The FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment effectively decreases the amount of pension expense in operating income so that such amount is equal to the service cost component of FAS expense under U.S. GAAP. The FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment was $1,454 million, $1,428 million and $1,303 million of income in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The non-service related components of FAS expense are included in retirement benefits non-service expense in non-operating (income) expense, net and were $688 million, $1,230 million and $913 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

On December 27, 2011, the CAS Pension Harmonization Rule (CAS Harmonization) was published in the Federal Register. The rule was intended to improve the alignment of the pension cost recovered through contract pricing under CAS and the pension funding requirements under the PPA. The rule shortened the CAS amortization period for gains and losses from 15 to 10 years and requires the use of a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, consistent with PPA, to measure liabilities in determining the CAS pension expense. CAS Harmonization increased pension costs under CAS starting in 2014 due to the transition phase in of 0% in 2013, 25% in 2014, 50% in 2015, 75% in 2016 and 100% in 2017 and beyond.

Due to the low interest rate environment, Congress provided for temporary pension funding relief through a provision in the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012 (STE Act). The provision was extended through 2020 by the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 (HATFA) and the Bipartisan Budget Act (BBA) of 2015. The provision adjusts the 24-month average high quality corporate bond rates used to determine the PPA funded status so that they are within a floor and cap, or “corridor,” based on the 25-year average of corporate bond rates. Beginning after 2020, the provision will be gradually phased out. This provision impacts CAS expense as well because CAS Harmonization incorporates the PPA interest rate into CAS calculations. The BBA of 2015 also increases the insurance premiums that we are required to pay the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC). However, we do not expect the increases to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

The assumptions in the calculations of our pension FAS expense and CAS expense, which involve significant judgment, are described below.

FAS Expense—Our long-term return on plan assets (ROA) and discount rate assumptions are the key variables in determining the net periodic benefit cost and the pension benefit obligation of our pension plans under U.S. GAAP. Our long-term ROA 

 42
assumption only impacts the retirement benefits non-service expense. The discount rate assumption impacts the service cost component of FAS expense and retirement benefits non-service expense, while also impacting the pension benefit obligation. 

The long-term ROA represents the average rate of earnings expected over the long term on the assets invested to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. The long-term ROA used to calculate net periodic pension cost is set annually at the beginning of each year. Given the long-term nature of the ROA assumption, which we believe should not be solely reactive to short-term market conditions that may not persist, we expect the long-term ROA to remain unchanged unless there are significant changes in our investment strategy, the underlying economic assumptions or other major factors. 

To establish our long-term ROA assumption we employ a “building block” approach. Under this building block method, the overall expected investment return equals the weighted-average of the individual expected return for each asset class based on the target asset allocation and the long-term capital market assumptions. The expected return for each asset class is composed of inflation plus a risk-free rate of return, plus an expected risk premium for that asset class. The resulting return is then adjusted for administrative, investment management and trading expenses as well as recognition of excess returns, also known as alpha, for active management. We then annually consider whether it is appropriate to change our long-term ROA assumption by reviewing the existing assumption against a statistically determined reasonable range of outcomes. The building block approach and the reasonable range of outcomes are based upon our asset allocation assumptions and long-term capital market assumptions. Such assumptions incorporate the economic outlook for various asset classes over short- and long-term periods and also take into consideration other factors, including historical market performance, inflation and interest rates.

Actuarial Standard of Practice No. 27, Selection of Economic Assumptions for Measuring Pension Obligations (ASOP 27) requires the selection of a reasonable long-term ROA assumption that considers multiple criteria including the purposes of measurement, the actuary’s professional judgment, historical and current economic data and estimates of future experience and has no significant bias. We evaluate our long-term ROA assumption against a reasonable range of possible outcomes which we define as between the 35th to 65th percentile likelihood of achieving a long-term return over future years. We believe that validating our ROA assumption within this reasonable range ensures an unbiased result while also ensuring that the ROA assumption is not solely reactive to short-term market conditions that may not persist, and is consistent with external actuarial practices. 

The reasonable range of long-term returns that was used to validate the long-term ROA assumption for the calculation of the net periodic benefit cost for 2019, 2018 and 2017 is shown below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2017 ROA Assumption—At year end 2016, we determined that the 8.0% long-term ROA assumption no longer fell within the range of reasonable outcomes, driven primarily by the current outlook on economic assumptions used to develop the reasonable range. As a result, we employed the building block approach described above to develop our 2017 long-term ROA assumption. The building block approach resulted in a long-term ROA assumption of 7.5% for 2017. To validate this assumption, we compared the result against the reasonable range of outcomes and confirmed that the 7.5% fell between the 55th and 60th percentile of the reasonable range for 2017 with the 50th percentile at 6.89%. 

Based upon our application of the building block approach and our review of the resulting assumption against the 35th to 65th percentile reasonable range and an analysis of our historical results, we established a 2017 long-term ROA domestic assumption of 7.5% for purposes of determining the net periodic benefit cost for 2017 and determined that the assumption is reasonable and consistent with the provisions of ASOP 27.

2018 ROA Assumption—The long-term domestic ROA of 7.5% fell between the 60th and 65th percentiles of the applicable reasonable range for 2018. The 50th percentile of this reasonable range was 6.74%. 

2019 ROA Assumption—The long-term domestic ROA of 7.5% fell between the 60th and 65th percentiles of the applicable reasonable range for 2019. The 50th percentile of this reasonable range was 6.53%. 

 43
2020 ROA Assumption—At year end 2019, we determined that the 7.5% long-term ROA assumption no longer fell within the range of reasonable outcomes, driven primarily by the current outlook on economic assumptions used to develop the reasonable range. As a result, we employed the building block approach described above to develop our 2020 long-term ROA assumption. The building block approach resulted in a long-term ROA assumption of 7.0% for 2020. To validate this assumption, we compared the result against the reasonable range of outcomes and confirmed that the 7.0% fell between the 60th and 65th percentile of the reasonable range for 2020 with the 50th percentile at 6.31%.

Once our long-term ROA has been determined to be within the 35th to 65th percentile range of results, we review historical averages and patterns of returns to confirm the reasonableness of our long-term ROA assumption compared to past results. While history is not solely indicative of future market expectations, it does provide insight into general historical trends and long-term asset performance. Our average annual actual rate of return from 1986 to 2019 of 8.89%, determined on an arithmetic basis, exceeds our estimated 7.0% assumed return. Arithmetic annual averages represent the simple average returns over independent annual periods, whereas geometric returns reflect the compound average returns of dependent annual periods. The average annual actual return on a geometric basis for the same period was 8.25%. In addition, the actual annual returns have exceeded our long-term ROA assumption of 7.0% in five of the past ten years.

Based upon our application of the building block approach and our review of the resulting assumption against the 35th to 65th percentile reasonable range and an analysis of our historical results, we established a 2020 long-term ROA domestic assumption of 7.0% for purposes of determining the net periodic benefit cost for 2020 and determined that the assumption is reasonable and consistent with the provisions of ASOP 27.

If we significantly change our long-term investment allocation or strategy, or if there is a significant change in the economic assumptions, then our long-term ROA assumption could change in the future.

Our domestic pension plans’ actual rates of return were approximately 19%, (4)% and 15% for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The difference between the actual rate of return and our long-term ROA assumption is included in deferred gains and losses.

The investment policy asset allocation ranges for our domestic pension plans, as set by our Investment Committee, for the year ended December 31, 2019 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The long-term ROA assumptions for our foreign Pension Benefits plans are based on the asset allocations and the economic environment prevailing in the locations where the Pension Benefits plans reside. Foreign pension assets do not make up a significant portion of the total assets for all of our Pension Benefits plans. 

The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle our pension obligations. The discount rate assumption is determined by using a theoretical bond portfolio model consisting of bonds rated AA or better by Moody’s Investors Service for which the timing and amount of cash flows approximate the estimated benefit payments for each of our pension plans. The discount rate assumption for our domestic pension plans at December 31, 2019 is 3.29%, which represents a weighted-average discount rate across our plans, compared to the December 31, 2018 discount rate of 4.33%.

CAS Expense—In addition to providing the methodology for calculating pension costs, CAS also prescribes the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for pension costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the 

 44
pattern of cost recognition is different. The key drivers of CAS pension expense include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans. Under the prior CAS rules, the discount rate used to measure liabilities was required to be consistent with the long-term ROA assumption, which generally does not change annually given its long-term nature. In addition to certain other changes, CAS Harmonization requires contractors to compare the liability under the prior CAS methodology and assumptions to a liability using a discount rate based on high-quality corporate bonds, and use the greater of the two liability calculations in developing CAS expense. In addition, unlike FAS, we can only allocate pension costs for a plan under CAS until such plan is fully funded as determined under CAS requirements. When the estimated future CAS pension costs increase, the estimated CAS cost allocated to our contracts in the future increases.

Other FAS and CAS Considerations—An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption would have had the following approximate impacts on 2019 domestic FAS pension results:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changes in the high-quality corporate bond rate assumption could impact the CAS discount rate for purposes of determining CAS pension expense due to CAS Harmonization. However in 2019, the CAS pension expense was not impacted by this assumption due to the passage of the HATFA and the BBA of 2015 which extended the provisions of pension funding relief as described above. The discount rate assumption could impact CAS pension expense in future periods depending upon the interest rate and regulatory environments.

An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the long-term ROA assumption for the domestic pension plans would have had the following approximate impacts on 2019 FAS and CAS pension results:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A portion of the $8 million change in CAS pension expense would also be allocated to fixed-price contracts in backlog and would either increase or decrease the profit rate on those contracts at the time of such a change (i.e., a change in the long-term ROA assumption on January 1, 2019 would drive a change in estimated costs in EACs and related contract profit rates as of December 31, 2018). The contract impact resulting from the change in CAS pension expense is difficult to estimate because of changes to remaining performance periods, the amount and timing of expected new awards (i.e., the proposals expected to be awarded in the year which will bear their allocated portion of the change in CAS pension expense), and our mix of fixed-price and cost reimbursable contracts. For example, based on our contract profile at December 31, 2018, if we had 61% of our backlog in fixed-price contracts, and they were on average 50% complete, with our actual new award profile for 2019, a 25 basis point increase in our long-term ROA assumption at January 1, 2019 would drive $2 million of unfavorable EAC adjustments at December 31, 2018. In addition, our fixed-price contracts in backlog as of December 31, 2018 would have a lower profit rate in 2019, resulting in a $1 million unfavorable impact as costs are incurred in that year on those contracts. The total impact on 2018 would be an unfavorable $2 million driven by the aggregate EAC adjustments and the total impact on 2019 would be favorable by approximately $54 million (the FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment and retirement benefits non-service expense, partially offset by the lower profit rate impact in 2019 on fixed-price contracts in backlog at December 31, 2018). A change in our long-term ROA assumption would be subject to review by our government customer for reasonableness. Given our history of recovering changes to CAS pension expense, we expect the assumption change would be allocable and allowable, per regulatory guidelines, as long as the assumption is reasonable.

The impact of changing our long-term ROA for our domestic pension plans from 8.0% to 7.5% in 2017 increased our retirement benefits non-service expense by $87 million, decreased our CAS expense by $18 million and decreased our FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment to income by $18 million in 2017, since long-term ROA does not impact the service cost component of FAS expense. The CAS impact is primarily driven by whether the pre-CAS Harmonization methodology applies, which uses a discount rate based on the long-term ROA assumption, or the post-CAS Harmonization methodology applies, which uses a 

 45
discount rate based on high-quality corporate bond rates. The actual CAS impact is not linear and can vary significantly from the theoretical impact described above because it relies on the actual change in the long-term ROA and the corresponding relationship between the long-term ROA, which is used under the pre-CAS Harmonization methodology, and the high-quality corporate bond rates, which are used under the post-CAS Harmonization methodology. In addition, the timing of the change relative to the transition period for CAS Harmonization affects the CAS impact. The $18 million decrease in our CAS expense in 2017 was included in our EACs and did not have a significant impact on our 2016 results based on our overall ending overhead positions.

In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a calculated “market-related value” of our plan assets is used to develop the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market-related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market-related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, retirement benefits non-service expense generally tends to reflect recent asset gains or losses faster than CAS. The funded status of our pension plans under CAS is another driver of our CAS expense, but has no impact on our FAS expense. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly.

Under FAS, a “corridor” approach may be elected and applied in the recognition of asset and liability gains or losses which limits expense recognition to the net outstanding gains and losses in excess of the greater of 10% of the projected benefit obligation (PBO) or the calculated “market-related value” of assets. We do not use a “corridor” approach in the calculation of FAS pension expense. 

Our pension and PRB plans’ investments are stated at fair value. Investments in equity securities are valued at the last reported sales price when an active market exists. Investments in fixed income securities are generally valued using methods based upon market transactions for comparable securities and various relationships between securities which are generally recognized by institutional market participants. Investments in funds are estimated at fair market value, which primarily utilizes net asset values reported by the investment manager or fund administrator. We review additional valuation and pricing information from fund managers, including audited financial statements, to evaluate the net asset values.

The change in accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCL) related to pension and PRB plans was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The balance in AOCL related to our pension and PRB plans is composed primarily of differences between changes in discount rates, differences between actual and expected asset returns, differences between actual and assumed demographic experience and changes in plan provisions. Changes to our pension and PRB obligation as a result of these variables are initially reflected in other comprehensive income. The deferred gains and losses are amortized and included in future retirement benefits non-service expense over the average employee service period of approximately ten years at December 31, 2019. The $1.9 billion in 2019 losses arising during the period were driven primarily by the decrease in the discount rate from 4.33% at December 31, 2018 to 3.29% at December 31, 2019, which had an impact of approximately $3.5 billion, as well as other actuarial factors, partially offset by actual returns, which were higher than our expected return, and had an impact of approximately $2.1 billion. 

The $0.6 billion in 2018 losses arising during the period were driven primarily by actual returns, which were lower than our expected return, and had an impact of approximately $2.2 billion, as well as other actuarial factors, partially offset by an increase in the discount rate from 3.72% at December 31, 2017 to 4.33% at December 31, 2018, which had an impact of approximately $1.9 billion. 

The $1.8 billion in 2017 losses arising during the period were driven primarily by the decrease in the discount rate from 4.36% at December 31, 2016 to 3.72% at December 31, 2017, which had an impact of approximately $2.1 billion, as well as other 

 46
actuarial factors, partially offset by actual returns, which were higher than our expected return, and had an impact of approximately $1.3 billion.

Goodwill

We evaluate our goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter and in any interim period in which circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, the loss of significant business, significant decreases in federal government appropriations or funding for our contracts, or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. No events occurred during the periods presented that indicated the existence of an impairment with respect to our goodwill. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model based on our most recent long-range plan in place at the time of our impairment testing, and compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. We discount the cash flow forecasts using the weighted-average cost of capital method at the date of evaluation. The weighted-average cost of capital is comprised of the estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publicly available data for peer companies plus an equity risk premium related to specific company risk factors, and the after tax rate of return on debt, each weighted at the relative values of the estimated debt and equity for the industry. Preparation of forecasts for use in the long-range plan and the selection of the discount rate involve significant judgments that we base primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements and general market conditions. Significant changes in these forecasts or the discount rate selected could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. When available and as appropriate, we also use comparative market multiples to corroborate our DCF model results. There was no indication of goodwill impairment as a result of our 2019 annual impairment analysis, as the fair values of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded their respective net book values, including goodwill. 

Based on our 2019 impairment analysis the reporting unit that was closest to impairment was the Forcepoint reporting unit, which had a fair value in excess of net book value, including goodwill, of approximately 50%. All other factors equal, a 10% decrease in expected future cash flows for our Forcepoint reporting unit would result in an excess of fair value over net book value of approximately 35%. Alternatively, all other factors being equal, a 100 basis points increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of the fair value of our Forcepoint reporting unit would result in an excess of fair value over net book value of approximately 40%. Based on our 2019 impairment analysis of our other reporting units, the reporting unit that was closest to impairment had a fair value in excess of net book value, including goodwill, of approximately 185%. If we are required to record an impairment charge in the future, it could materially affect our results of operations.

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see the Accounting Standards section in “Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Total Net Sales

The composition of external net sales by products and services for each segment in 2019 was approximately the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Products net sales includes software related sales, including software subscriptions.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 47
Total Net Sales - 2019 vs. 2018—The increase in total net sales of $2,118 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher external net sales of $725 million at IDS and $589 million at SAS. The increase in net sales at IDS was primarily due to higher net sales on certain European Patriot programs awarded in 2018 and the second quarter of 2019, higher net sales on an international air and missile defense system program awarded in the third quarter of 2019, driven primarily by the recognition of previously deferred precontract and inventoried costs and higher net sales on a missile defense radar program for an international customer with awards in the second and fourth quarters of 2019, partially offset by lower net sales on certain international Patriot programs due to the scheduled completion of certain production phases of the programs. The increase in net sales at SAS was primarily due to higher net sales on classified programs principally driven by 2018 awards, higher net sales on the Next Generation Overhead Persistent Infrared (Next Gen OPIR) program for the U.S. Air Force awarded in the third quarter of 2018, higher net sales on Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) production programs primarily due to increased customer demand and higher net sales on tactical radar systems development programs due to scheduled increases in program activity. 

Products and Services Net Sales - 2019 vs. 2018—The increase in products net sales of $1,802 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher external products net sales of $614 million at SAS and $601 million at IDS, both primarily due to higher products net sales on the programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in services net sales of $316 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher external services net sales of $160 million at IIS principally due to higher services net sales from the consolidation of Range Generation Next LLC (RGNext) in the first quarter of 2019, higher services net sales on certain classified programs and higher services net sales on the Development, Operations and Maintenance (DOMino) cyber program for the DHS due to planned program schedule requirements, partially offset by lower services net sales on programs in support of the U.S. Army’s Warfighter Field Operations Customer Support (Warfighter FOCUS) activities, which continue to transition to a number of competitively-awarded replacement programs, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. In the first quarter of 2019, we amended and restated the RGNext joint venture agreement and acquired an additional 10% equity ownership in the joint venture, increasing our equity ownership to 60% and giving us control of the operations of RGNext with the partner having only protective rights. The results of RGNext are included in IIS’s segment results effective as of the February 8, 2019 consolidation date. See “Note 4: Acquisitions, Divestitures and Goodwill” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional detail.

Total Net Sales - 2018 vs. 2017—The increase in total net sales of $1,710 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher external net sales of $545 million at IIS and $482 million at MS. The increase in external net sales at IIS was primarily due to higher net sales on classified programs in both cyber and space, higher net sales in support of the DOMino cyber program for the DHS, which was awarded in the fourth quarter of 2017, and higher net sales on programs in support of the U.S. Army’s Warfighter FOCUS activities driven principally by customer determined activity levels. The increase in external net sales at MS was primarily due to higher net sales on classified programs, partially offset by lower net sales on the Paveway program principally driven by reductions of expected costs in the third quarter of 2017 to fulfill industrial cooperation agreements, and decreases in production costs and unit pricing.

Products and Services Net Sales - 2018 vs. 2017—The increase in products net sales of $1,217 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher external products net sales of $446 million at MS and $326 million at SAS. The increase in products net sales at MS was primarily due to higher products net sales on certain classified programs described above in Total Net Sales and higher products net sales on the Standard Missile-3 (SM-3) program due to planned increases in production, partially offset by lower products net sales on the Paveway program described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in products net sales at SAS was primarily due to higher products net sales on a domestic tactical radar systems production program due to scheduled increases in production and higher products net sales on surveillance and targeting systems programs primarily due to a production program for the U.S. Air Force awarded in the third quarter of 2018 and planned increases in production on certain surveillance and targeting systems programs. The increase in services net sales of $493 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher external services net sales of $421 million at IIS principally due to higher services net sales on the DOMino cyber and U.S. Army’s Warfighter FOCUS programs described above in Total Net Sales and higher services net sales on certain classified programs.

 48
Sales to Major Customers

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Excludes foreign military sales through the U.S. government.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As described above in Domestic Considerations, U.S. defense spending levels are difficult to predict due to numerous factors, including U.S. government budget appropriation decisions, geopolitical events and macroeconomic conditions.

Total Cost of Sales

Cost of sales, for both products and services, consists of labor, materials and subcontractors costs, as well as related allocated costs. For each of our contracts, we manage the nature and amount of direct costs at the contract level, and manage indirect costs through cost pools as required by government accounting regulations. The estimate of the actual amount of direct and indirect costs forms the basis for estimating our total costs at completion of the contract. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total Cost of Sales - 2019 vs. 2018—The increase in total cost of sales of $1,840 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher external cost of sales at IDS, MS, and SAS. The increase in cost of sales at IDS was primarily due to the programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in cost of sales at MS was primarily due to higher cost of sales on classified programs, partially offset by lower cost of sales on the Paveway program due to planned decreases in production, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. The increase in cost of sales at SAS was primarily due to the programs described above in Total Net Sales. 

Products and Services Cost of Sales - 2019 vs. 2018—The increase in products cost of sales of $1,639 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher external products cost of sales at IDS, SAS and MS. The increases in products cost of sales at IDS and SAS were primarily due to the programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in products cost of sales at MS was due to higher cost of sales on certain classified programs described above in Total Cost of Sales, partially offset by lower cost of sales on the Paveway program described above in Total Cost of Sales, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. The increase in services cost of sales of $201 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher external services cost of sales at IDS and IIS. The increase in services cost of sales at IDS was primarily due to an international technical and logistics support contract awarded in the third quarter of 2019, driven by the recognition of previously deferred precontract costs, increased support services on missile defense radar programs and increased Patriot support services for an international customer. The increase in services cost of sales at IIS was primarily due to the programs described above in Total Net Sales.

Total Cost of Sales - 2018 vs. 2017—The increase in total cost of sales of $1,233 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher external cost of sales at IIS and MS. The increase in total costs of sales at IIS was primarily due to the 

 49
programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in total costs of sales at MS was primarily due to the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales.

Products and Services Cost of Sales - 2018 vs. 2017—The increase in products cost of sales of $856 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher external products cost of sales at MS primarily due to the certain classified programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in services cost of sales of $377 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher external services cost of sales at IIS primarily due to the programs described above in Total Net Sales.

General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in administrative and selling expenses of $151 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to $51 million of costs related to the proposed merger with UTC and higher administrative and selling expenses at IDS primarily related to activities to support an advanced radar pursuit.

Administrative and selling expenses in 2018 were relatively consistent with 2017.

Included in administrative and selling expenses is the provision for state income taxes, which generally can be recovered through the pricing of products and services to the U.S. government. Net state income taxes allocated to our contracts were $31 million, $18 million and $32 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

The decrease in research and development expenses of $109 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to lower independent research and development activity at MS due to an increase in customer-funded research and development.

The increase in research and development expenses of $141 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher research and development expenses at SAS related to advanced capabilities and at IDS related to next-generation technologies.

Total Operating Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in total operating expenses of $1,882 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the increase in total cost of sales of $1,840 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Cost of Sales.

The increase in total operating expenses of $1,403 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the increase in total cost of sales of $1,233 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Cost of Sales.

Operating Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in operating income of $236 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was due to the increase in total net sales of $2,118 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the increase in total operating expenses of $1,882 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Operating Expenses. 

 50
The increase in operating income of $307 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was due to the increase in total net sales of $1,710 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the increase in total operating expenses of $1,403 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Operating Expenses. 

Total Non-Operating (Income) Expense, Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in total non-operating (income) expense, net of $603 million in 2019 compared to 2018, was primarily due to a decrease in retirement benefits non-service expense of $542 million principally driven by the recognition of a non-cash pension settlement charge of $288 million during the third quarter of 2018 and a decrease in the amortization of net actuarial loss in 2019 compared to 2018 due to a decrease in the unamortized loss at December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017. The settlement charge was the acceleration of actuarial losses previously included in AOCL for certain Raytheon-sponsored pension plans that purchased a group annuity contract from an insurance company to transfer $923 million of our outstanding pension benefit obligations in the third quarter of 2018. See “Note 14: Pension and Other Employee Benefits” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further details. Included in the change in other (income) expense, net was a $48 million change in the mark-to-market of marketable securities held in trusts associated with certain of our nonqualified deferred compensation and employee benefit plans, due to net gains of $43 million in 2019 compared to net losses of $5 million in 2018, a $17 million charge related to the settlement of our treasury rate locks in the fourth quarter of 2019 without the issuance of debt due to merger considerations and a non-cash gain of $14 million in the third quarter of 2019 related to the revaluation of an investment in equity securities of a non-publicly traded company due to the availability of updated pricing data from a recent transaction.

The increase in total non-operating (income) expense, net, of $273 million in 2018 compared to 2017, was primarily due to an increase in retirement benefits non-service expense of $317 million, partially offset by a decrease in interest expense of $21 million and a decrease in other (income) expense, net of $13 million. The increase in retirement benefits non-service expense was principally driven by the recognition of a non-cash pension settlement charge of $288 million during the third quarter of 2018, as described above. The remaining change was primarily related to changes in the discount rate, offset by asset performance and the impact of discretionary pension contributions. The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to the repurchase of long-term debt in the second quarter of 2017. The decrease in other (income) expense, net was principally driven by a $39 million before tax charge associated with the make-whole provision on the early repurchase of long-term debt in the second quarter of 2017, partially offset by a $26 million change in the mark-to-market to fair value of marketable securities held in trusts associated with certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation and employee benefit plans, due to net losses of $5 million in 2018 compared to net gains of $21 million in 2017.

Federal and Foreign Income Taxes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in federal and foreign income taxes of $394 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to an increase in our effective tax rate, as discussed below. 

The decrease in federal and foreign income taxes of $850 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the decrease in the statutory federal rate and foreign derived intangible income (FDII), both as a result of the enactment of the 2017 Act, as discussed below.

 51
Our effective tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory rate due to the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate reflects the U.S. statutory rate adjusted for various permanent differences between book and tax reporting. 

In the fourth quarter of 2018, Forcepoint completed an Irish restructuring transaction resulting in a deferred tax asset of approximately $63 million. We have evaluated both the positive and negative evidence to support our ability to realize the deferred tax asset associated with the restructuring. We believe it is more likely than not that the benefit from this restructuring transaction will not be realized. Accordingly, we provided a valuation allowance of $63 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 on the deferred tax asset related to this transaction. 

In the third quarter of 2018, the Company recognized a net tax benefit of $110 million related to the completion of the 2017 tax return and additional amended R&D tax credit claims related to the 2014–2016 tax years. 

Also in the third quarter of 2018, we made a discretionary contribution to our pension plans of $1.25 billion. In the second quarter of 2018, we determined we would make this contribution and as a result recorded a net tax benefit of $95 million in the second quarter of 2018. This was primarily due to the remeasurement of the related deferred tax asset balance at the 2017 tax rate of 35% versus the 2018 tax rate of 21% since the discretionary contribution was deductible on our 2017 tax return. 

On December 22, 2017, the President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (2017 Act) which enacted a wide range of changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. The 2017 Act reduced the U.S. corporate statutory federal tax rate to 21% effective in 2018, eliminated the domestic manufacturing deduction benefit and introduced other tax base broadening measures, changed rules for expensing and capitalizing business expenditures, established a territorial tax system for foreign earnings as well as a minimum tax on certain foreign earnings, provided for a one-time transition tax on previously undistributed foreign earnings, and introduced new rules for the treatment of certain foreign income, including FDII.  

Also on December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), which provided companies with additional guidance on how to account for the 2017 Act in their financial statements, allowing companies to use a measurement period. As of December 31, 2017, we made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances to reflect the new 21% corporate income tax rate under the 2017 Act and the one-time transition tax on previously undistributed foreign earnings and recognized provisional amounts totaling $171 million in accordance with SAB 118, which was included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations. As of December 31, 2018, we had finalized our provisional estimates for the remeasurement of our existing U.S. deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax for which we recorded a $1 million tax benefit in 2018.

 52
We recognize excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies related to our equity compensation in the income statement which could result in fluctuations in our effective tax rate period over period depending on changes to our stock price and how many awards vest in the period.

Our effective tax rate in 2019 was lower than the statutory federal tax rate of 21% primarily due to FDII, which decreased the rate by 3.3% and the R&D tax credit, which decreased the rate by 2.3%. The offsetting increase of 1.1% is composed of various unrelated items, which individually and collectively are not significant.

Our effective tax rate in 2018 was lower than the statutory federal tax rate of 21% primarily due to FDII, which decreased the rate by 4.2%, the tax benefit recognized related to the discretionary pension contribution, which decreased the rate by 3.0%, the R&D tax credit, which decreased the rate by 2.4%, additional R&D tax credit claims related to the 2014–2017 tax years, which decreased the rate by 2.1%, a prior year true-up primarily due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax asset balance at December 31, 2017, which decreased the rate by 1.1% and the tax benefit recognized upon settlement of equity awards, which decreased the rate by 1.0%. The foreign rate differential increased the rate by 1.3%. The remaining decrease of 0.1% is composed of various unrelated items, which individually and collectively are not significant.

Our effective tax rate in 2017 was higher than the statutory federal tax rate of 35% primarily due to the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax balances, which increased the rate by approximately 3.2% and the one-time transition tax on undistributed foreign earnings, which increased the rate by 2.3%. Items which decreased our effective tax rate were the domestic manufacturing deduction, which decreased the rate by approximately 2.5%, the R&D tax credit, which decreased the rate by approximately 1.5% and the tax benefit recognized upon settlement of stock-based awards, which decreased the rate by 1.2%. The remaining increase of 0.5% is composed of various unrelated items, which individually and collectively are not significant.

Our effective tax rate in 2019 was 8.1% higher than in 2018 primarily due to the tax benefit recognized related to the discretionary pension contribution, which decreased the 2018 rate by 3.0%, the additional R&D tax credit claims related to the 2014–2017 tax years, which decreased the 2018 rate by 2.1%, a prior year true-up primarily due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax asset balance at December 31, 2017, which decreased the 2018 rate by 1.1% and FDII, which increased the rate by 0.9%. The remaining increase of 1.0% is composed of various items, which individually and collectively are not significant.

Our effective tax rate in 2018 was 27.4% lower than in 2017 primarily due to the decrease in the statutory federal rate, which decreased the rate by 14.0%, FDII, which decreased the rate by 4.2%, the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax balances, which increased the 2017 rate by 3.2%, the tax benefit recognized related to the discretionary pension contribution, which decreased the rate by 3.0%, the one-time transition tax on undistributed foreign earnings, which increased the 2017 rate by 2.3%, and additional R&D tax credit claims related to the 2014-2017 tax years, which decreased the rate by 2.1%, partially offset by the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction, which unfavorably impacted the rate by 2.5%. The remaining decrease of 1.1% is composed of various unrelated items, which individually and collectively are not significant.

On March 4, 2019, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued proposed regulations providing guidance for the determination of the deduction amount of FDII. Although these rules would affect amounts recorded or amounts expected to be recorded and could increase our income tax expense, we do not expect any material changes to our financial statements if the regulations are finalized as currently drafted.

On September 5, 2019, the Treasury Department and the IRS issued proposed regulations to address changes to tax revenue recognition under the 2017 Act. Subject to further guidance and the final form of the regulations, the Company may have to accelerate the recognition of certain revenue previously deferred for tax purposes. The estimated impact to cash taxes could be an increase of up to approximately $250 million in each of the four years following the release of the final regulations. 

 53
Income from Continuing Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in income from continuing operations of $445 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to a decrease of $603 million in non-operating (income) expense, net, primarily related to the decrease in retirement benefits non-service expense described above in Total Non-Operating (Income) Expense, Net and an increase of $236 million in operating income, described above in Operating Income, partially offset by an increase of $394 million in federal and foreign income taxes related to the increase in our effective tax rate described above in Federal and Foreign Income Taxes.

The increase in income from continuing operations of $884 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to a decrease of $850 million in federal and foreign income taxes, related to the decrease in our effective tax rate described above in Federal and Foreign Income Taxes, and an increase of $307 million in operating income, described above in Operating Income, partially offset by an increase of $273 million in non-operating (income) expense, net, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Non-Operating (Income) Expense, Net and include the recognition of a non-cash pension settlement charge of $288 million during the third quarter of 2018.

Net Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in net income of $447 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations of $445 million described above in Income from Continuing Operations.

The increase in net income of $881 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations of $884 million described above in Income from Continuing Operations.

Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $1.77 in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations described above in Income from Continuing Operations, and a decrease in weighted-average shares outstanding, which was driven by the common stock share activity shown in the table below. 

The increase in diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $3.21 in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations described above in Income from Continuing Operations, and a decrease in weighted-average shares outstanding, which was driven by the common stock share activity shown in the table below. Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders was increased by $0.01 in 2018 for the impact of our redeemable noncontrolling interest redemption value adjustments, as discussed in “Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

 54
Our common stock share activity for the years ended 2019, 2018, and 2017 was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SEGMENT RESULTS

We report our results in the following segments: IDS; IIS; MS; SAS; and Forcepoint. 

The following provides some context for viewing our segment performance through the eyes of management. 

Given the nature of our business, bookings, total net sales and operating income (and the related operating margin percentage), which we disclose and discuss at the segment level, are most relevant to an understanding of management’s view of our segment performance, and often these measures have significant interrelated effects, as described below. In addition, we disclose and discuss backlog, which represents future sales that we expect to recognize over the remaining contract period, which is generally several years. We also disclose total operating expenses and the components of total operating expenses within our segment disclosures. 

Bookings—We disclose the amount of bookings and notable contract awards for each segment. Bookings generally represent the dollar value of new external contracts awarded to us during the reporting period and include firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated. We believe bookings are an important measure of future performance and are an indicator of potential future changes in total net sales, because we cannot record revenues under a new contract without first having a booking in the current or a preceding period. 

Bookings are impacted by the timing and amounts of awards in a given period, which are subject to numerous factors, including: (1) the desired capability by the customer and urgency of customer needs; (2) customer budgets and other fiscal constraints; (3) political and economic and other environmental factors; (4) the timing of customer negotiations; (5) the timing of governmental approvals and notifications; and (6) the timing of option exercises or increases in scope.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in bookings were international bookings of $10,352 million, $9,850 million and $8,479 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which included foreign military bookings through the U.S. government. International bookings amounted to 28% of total bookings in 2019 and 31% of total bookings in 2018 and 2017. Classified bookings amounted to 22%, 21%, and 17% of total bookings in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

We record bookings for not-to-exceed contract awards (e.g., undefinitized contract awards, binding letter agreements) based on reasonable estimates of the expected contract definitization. We subsequently adjust bookings to reflect the actual amounts definitized, or prior to definitization when facts and circumstances indicate that our previously estimated amounts are no longer reasonable. The timing of awards that may cover multiple fiscal years influences the size of bookings in each year. Bookings exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g., indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) type contracts), and are reduced for contract cancellations and terminations of bookings recognized in the current year. We reflect contract cancellations and terminations from prior year bookings, as well as the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, directly as an adjustment to backlog in the period in which the cancellation or termination occurs and the impact is determinable. Contract cancellations and terminations include contract underruns on cost-type programs.

 55
Backlog—We disclose period-end backlog for each segment. Backlog, which is equivalent to our remaining performance obligations, represents the dollar value of firm orders for which work has not been performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and generally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments. Therefore, we discuss changes in backlog, including any individually significant cancellations, for each of our segments, as we believe such discussion provides an understanding of the awarded but not executed portions of our contracts. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g., indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ)). Backlog is affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total Net Sales—We generally express changes in total net sales in terms of volume. Volume generally refers to increases or decreases in revenues related to varying amounts of total operating expenses incurred on individual contracts (i.e., from performance against contractual commitments on our bookings related to engineering, production or service activity). Therefore, we discuss volume changes attributable principally to individual programs or product lines unless there is a discrete event (e.g., a major contract termination, natural disaster or major labor strike), or some other unusual item that has a material effect on changes in a segment’s volume for a reported period. Due to the nature of our contracts, the amount of costs incurred and related revenues will naturally fluctuate over the lives of our contracts. As a result, in any reporting period, the changes in volume on numerous contracts are likely to be due to normal fluctuations in our engineering, production or service activities, depending on the phase of the contracts’ lifecycle. 

Total net sales by segment were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total Operating Expenses—We generally disclose operating expenses for each segment in terms of the following: (1) cost of sales—labor; (2) cost of sales—materials and subcontractors; and (3) other cost of sales and other operating expenses. Included in cost of sales—labor is the incurred direct labor costs associated with the performance of contracts in the current period and any applicable overhead and fringe costs. Included in cost of sales—materials and subcontractors is the incurred direct materials costs, subcontractor costs (which could include effort performed by other Raytheon segments or locations) and applicable overhead allocations in the current period. Included in other costs of sales and other operating expenses is other direct costs not captured in labor or materials and subcontractors costs, such as previously deferred precontract costs recognized in the period, applicable overhead allocations, general and administrative expenses, which include administrative and selling expenses (including bid and proposal costs) and research and development expenses, other direct costs (such as ancillary services and travel expenses) and adjustments for loss contracts. 

 56
Operating Income (and the related operating margin percentage)—We generally express changes in segment operating income in terms of volume, net changes in EAC adjustments or changes in contract mix and other program performance. 

The impact of changes in volume on operating income excludes the impact of net EAC adjustments and the impact of changes in contract mix and other program performance and is calculated based on changes in costs on individual programs at an overall margin for the segment. As such, changes in volume do not impact operating margins. 

Changes in net EAC adjustments relate to changes in operating income and margin due to revisions to total estimated revenues and costs at completion. These changes reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance or award fee rates. For a full description of our EAC process, refer to Critical Accounting Estimates. Given that we have thousands of individual contracts and the types and complexity of the assumptions and estimates we must make on an on-going basis, we have both favorable and unfavorable EAC adjustments. We had the following aggregate EAC adjustments for the periods presented: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In recent years, our net EAC adjustments generally have been between 1.5% and 2.0% of total net sales. Our net EAC adjustments as a percentage of total net sales were 1.8% in 2019 and 2018 and 1.7% in 2017.

Significant EAC adjustments in 2019, 2018 and 2017 are discussed in the Operating Income and Margin section of each business segment’s discussion below. The $28 million increase in net EAC adjustments in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the increase in net EAC adjustments at IDS and IIS, partially offset by the decrease in net EAC adjustments at MS, all of which are described below in the respective segment’s results. The $50 million increase in net EAC adjustments in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the increase in net EAC adjustments at SAS and IIS, partially offset by the decrease in net EAC adjustments at IDS, all of which are described below in the respective segment’s results.

Changes in contract mix and other program performance refer to changes in operating income and margin due to a change in the relative volume of contracts with higher or lower fee rates such that the overall average margin rate for the segment changes, and other drivers of program performance including margin rate increases or decreases due to EAC adjustments in prior periods. A higher or lower expected fee rate at the initial award of a contract typically correlates to the contract’s risk profile, which is often specifically driven by the type of customer and related procurement regulations, the type of contract (e.g., fixed-price vs. cost-plus), the maturity of the product or service and the scope of work. Changes in contract mix and other performance also include all other items which are not related to volume or EAC adjustments (e.g., real estate transactions). 

 57
Operating income by segment was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Integrated Defense Systems

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 58
IDS is a leader in integrated air and missile defense; large land- and sea-based radar solutions; command, control, communications, computers, cyber and intelligence solutions; naval combat and ship electronic and sensing systems; and undersea sensing and effects solutions. IDS delivers combat-proven performance against the complete spectrum of airborne and ballistic missile threats and is a world leader in the technology, development, and production of sensors and mission systems. IDS provides solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), and more than 50 international customers which represent more than half of IDS’s business.

Total Net Sales—The increase in total net sales of $747 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher net sales of $402 million on certain European Patriot programs awarded in 2018 and the second quarter of 2019, higher net sales of $279 million on an international air and missile defense system program awarded in the third quarter of 2019, driven primarily by the recognition of previously deferred precontract and inventoried costs of $130 million and higher net sales of $145 million on a missile defense radar program for an international customer with awards in the second and fourth quarters of 2019, partially offset by lower net sales of $343 million on certain international Patriot programs due to the scheduled completion of certain production phases of the programs. 

The increase in total net sales of $376 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher net sales of $426 million on an international Patriot program awarded in the first quarter of 2018, which included an estimated $90 million of net sales recognized in the first quarter of 2018 from previously inventoried costs, higher net sales of $113 million on various Patriot programs for an international customer driven by planned increases in production, higher net sales of $84 million on an international Patriot program awarded in the second quarter of 2018, and higher net sales of $71 million on close combat tactical radar programs and higher net sales of $64 million on a naval radar program both driven by awards in 2018, partially offset by lower net sales of $371 million on certain international Patriot programs due to the scheduled completion of certain production phases of the programs.

Total Operating Expenses—The increase in total operating expenses of $659 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to an increase in materials and subcontractors costs of $281 million, an increase in other cost of sales and other operating expenses of $219 million and an increase in labor costs of $159 million. The increase in materials and subcontractors costs was principally due to higher activity on the certain European Patriot programs, and on the international air and missile defense system program awarded in the third quarter of 2019, both described above in Total Net Sales, and the completion of a transaction to satisfy all of our existing offset obligations on various Patriot programs for a MENA customer, partially offset by lower activity on the certain international Patriot programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in other cost of sales and other operating expenses was primarily due to a change in the amount of previously deferred precontract costs recognized based on contract awards, primarily due to $67 million recognized in the third quarter of 2019 related to the international air and missile defense system program awarded in the third quarter of 2019, and $58 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2019 related to the additional award on the missile defense radar program for an international customer, both described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in labor costs was primarily due to higher activity on the certain European Patriot programs described above in Total Net Sales, higher activity on a naval radar program driven by awards in the first and fourth quarters of 2019, higher activity on Patriot engineering services support for U.S. and international customers primarily driven by increased scope, and higher activity on the missile defense radar program for an international customer described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by lower activity on the certain international Patriot programs described above in Total Net Sales and lower activity on an international Patriot program awarded in the first quarter of 2018 driven by the recognition of previously inventoried costs in the first quarter of 2018.

The increase in total operating expenses of $288 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in materials and subcontractors costs of $177 million, driven principally by activity on the international Patriot program awarded in the first quarter of 2018, the naval radar program and the close combat tactical radar programs described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by activity on the certain international Patriot programs described above in Total Net Sales.

Operating Income and Margin—The increase in operating income of $88 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to an increase in volume of $135 million and a net change in EAC adjustments of $60 million, partially offset by a change in mix and other performance of $107 million. The increase in volume was primarily due to activity on the programs described above in Total Net Sales. The net change in EAC adjustments was primarily driven by $30 million of favorable profit adjustments in the first quarter of 2019 related to the offset transaction discussed above in Total Operating Expenses due to a reduction of expected costs to fulfill our offset obligations on several contracts, and a $26 million negative profit adjustment in the third quarter of 2018 on a fixed price radar development program due to schedule delays from challenges in first-time production. 

 59
In total, the offset transaction resulted in $44 million of operating income in the first quarter of 2019. The change in mix and other performance was principally driven by lower sales on an international Patriot program awarded in the first quarter of 2018 driven by the recognition of previously inventoried costs in the first quarter of 2018 and lower sales on various Patriot programs for an international customer driven by the scheduled completion of certain production phases of the programs, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. Included in the change in mix and other performance was a $6 million gain on a real estate transaction in the first quarter of 2019. The decrease in operating margin in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the change in mix and other performance, partially offset by the net change in EAC adjustments.

The increase in operating income of $88 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to a change in mix and other performance of $79 million and an increase in volume of $42 million, partially offset by a net change in EAC adjustments of $33 million. The change in mix and other performance was principally driven by higher sales on the international Patriot program awarded in the first quarter of 2018 and the various Patriot programs for an international customer described above in Total Net Sales, which had a combined impact of $134 million, partially offset by other activity with no individual or common significant driver. Included in the change in mix and other performance was $10 million of gains on real estate transactions in 2017. The increase in volume was primarily due to the activity on the programs described above in Total Net Sales. The net change in EAC adjustments was primarily driven by a $26 million negative profit adjustment in the third quarter of 2018 on a fixed price radar development program due to schedule delays from challenges in first-time production. The increase in operating margin in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the change in mix and other performance, partially offset by the net change in EAC adjustments.

Backlog and Bookings—Backlog was $14,180 million, $11,557 million and $9,186 million at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in backlog of $2,623 million at December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 was primarily due to bookings in excess of sales at our Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD) product line. The increase in backlog of $2,371 million at December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 was primarily due to bookings in excess of sales at our IAMD product line.

The bookings increase of $936 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was driven primarily by the $708 million increase in the specifically disclosed bookings below. In 2019, IDS booked $1.8 billion on a direct commercial contract to provide National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile System (NASAMS) to the State of Qatar, $1.1 billion on two direct commercial contracts to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability to existing international customers, $827 million on the AMDR program for the U.S. Navy, $504 million on NASAMS for Australia, $486 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for Romania, $420 million on the Army Navy/Transportable Radar Surveillance-Model 2 (AN/TPY-2) radar program for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), $375 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for the State of Qatar, $360 million to provide Patriot engineering services support for the U.S. Army and international customers, $355 million to provide technical and logistics support for the Hawk and Patriot air and missile defense program for the KSA, $206 million on the Multi-Function Radio Frequency System (MFRFS) program for the U.S. Army, $205 million on the Aegis weapon system for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $170 million to provide Consolidated Contractor Logistics Support (CCLS) for the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), $105 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for Germany, $103 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for the U.S. Army and other international customers and $93 million to provide engineering support services for an international customer. 

The bookings increase of $3,764 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was driven primarily by the $3,289 million increase in the specifically disclosed bookings below. In 2018, IDS booked $1.6 billion to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability to an international customer, $1.3 billion to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for Poland, $676 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for Sweden, $380 million to provide Guidance Enhanced Missiles (GEM-T) for an international customer, $375 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for Romania, $317 million to provide Patriot engineering services support for U.S. and international customers, $316 million on the AMDR program for the U.S. Navy, $276 million for the Collins class submarine program for the Royal Australian Navy, $228 million for the AN/TPY-2 radar sustainment program for the MDA, $205 million to provide CCLS for the MDA, $191 million for the Forward Expeditionary Advanced Vehicle Radar (FEAVR) program for the U.S. Army, $142 million to provide Patriot spares for an international customer, $141 million to provide Patriot depot support for an international customer, $95 million on the MFRFS program for the U.S. Army, $83 million for the Barracuda mine neutralization system for the U.S. Navy and $76 million for a lightweight torpedo program for the U.S. Navy and international customers.

 60
In 2017, IDS booked $1,030 million for the Upgraded Early Warning Radar (UEWR) system for Qatar, $448 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capabilities for certain international customers, including $145 million for Qatar and $303 million for two other international customers, $440 million on the AMDR program for the U.S. Navy, $304 million on an Early Warning Surveillance Radar System (EWSRS) support program for an international customer, $303 million to provide CCLS for the MDA, $263 million to provide Patriot engineering services support for U.S. and international customers, $180 million on the MFRFS program for the U.S. Army and $144 million on the AN/TPY-2 radar sustainment program for the MDA.

Intelligence, Information and Services

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

IIS provides a full range of technical and professional services to intelligence, defense, federal and commercial customers worldwide. IIS specializes in global Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR); navigation; DoD space and weather solutions; cybersecurity; analytics; training; logistics; mission support; advanced software-based complex systems; automation and sustainment solutions; and international and domestic Air Traffic Management (ATM) systems. Key customers include the U.S. Intelligence Community, the DoD, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), NASA and a number of international customers. In the first quarter of 2019, we amended and restated the RGNext joint venture agreement and acquired an additional 10% equity ownership in the joint venture, increasing our equity ownership to 60% and giving us control of the operations of RGNext with the partner having only protective rights. The results of RGNext are included in IIS’s segment results effective as of the February 8, 2019 consolidation date. See “Note 4: Acquisitions, Divestitures and Goodwill” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional detail.

Total Net Sales—The increase in total net sales of $429 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher net sales of $286 million on classified programs in both cyber and space and higher net sales of $205 million from the consolidation of RGNext in the first quarter of 2019, partially offset by lower net sales of $377 million on programs in support of the U.S. 

 61
Army’s Warfighter FOCUS activities, which continue to transition to a number of competitively-awarded replacement programs, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver.

The increase in total net sales of $545 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher net sales of $258 million on classified programs in both cyber and space, higher net sales of $90 million in support of the DOMino cyber program for the DHS, which was awarded in the fourth quarter of 2017, and higher net sales of $80 million on programs in support of the U.S. Army’s Warfighter FOCUS activities driven principally by customer determined activity levels.

Total Operating Expenses—The increase in total operating expenses of $309 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to an increase in labor costs of $164 million and an increase in materials and subcontractors costs of $138 million. The increase in labor costs was driven principally by the activity on the programs described above in Total Net Sales. Included in the change in materials and subcontractors costs was lower activity on programs in support of the U.S. Army’s Warfighter FOCUS activities described above in Total Net Sales and higher activity on classified programs in both cyber and space described above in Total Net Sales, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. 

The increase in total operating expenses of $462 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in materials and subcontractors costs of $301 million and an increase in labor costs of $152 million. The increase in materials and subcontractors costs was driven principally by activity on the classified programs and the DOMino cyber program for the DHS described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in labor costs was driven principally by activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales, a change in the type of labor support on an air traffic control program for the FAA, activity on a U.S. Air Force program due to increased contract activities, and activity on the DOMino cyber program for the DHS and the U.S. Army’s Warfighter FOCUS activities both described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by activity on the Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS) Common Ground System (CGS) for NASA due to planned decreases in contract activities.

Operating Income and Margin—The increase in operating income of $120 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to a change in mix and other performance of $56 million, a net change in EAC adjustments of $33 million and an increase in volume of $31 million. The change in mix and other performance was primarily due to the non-cash gain of $21 million from the remeasurement of our equity method investment in RGNext in the first quarter of 2019 as described above and activity on the programs in support of the U.S. Army’s Warfighter FOCUS activities described above in Total Net Sales. Included in the change in mix and other performance was a non-cash gain of $14 million from the revaluation of an investment in equity securities of a non-publicly traded company in the third quarter of 2019 and a $13 million gain in the first quarter of 2019 on the sale of residual materials and supplies previously used to support the Warfighter FOCUS programs. The net change in EAC adjustments was primarily driven by higher labor efficiencies on classified programs in both cyber and space in 2019. The increase in volume was primarily due to the activity on the programs described above in Total Net Sales, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. The increase in operating margin in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the change in mix and other performance and the net change in EAC adjustments.

The increase in operating income of $83 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to a net change in EAC adjustments of $41 million and an increase in volume of $32 million. The net change in EAC adjustments was driven principally by higher labor efficiencies on the programs in support of the U.S. Army’s Warfighter FOCUS activities in 2018. The increase in volume was primarily due to the activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales. Included in mix and other performance in 2017 was a $2 million gain on a real estate transaction. The increase in operating margin in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the net change in EAC adjustments.

Backlog and Bookings—Backlog was $6,674 million, $6,233 million and $6,503 million at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in backlog of $441 million at December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 was primarily due to the consolidation of RGNext, as described above. The decrease in backlog of $270 million at December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 was primarily at our Navigation and Modernization Solutions (NMS) product line principally due to sales in excess of bookings.

The bookings increase of $763 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was driven primarily by the $353 million increase in the specifically disclosed bookings below and an increase in bookings on less significant awards not specifically disclosed. In 

 62
2019, IIS booked $462 million on domestic and foreign training programs in support of Warfighter FOCUS activities, $293 million on the DOMino cyber program for the DHS, $171 million to perform operations and sustainment for the U.S. Air Force’s Launch and Test Range System (LTRS), $128 million on the Air and Space Operations Center Weapon System (AOC WS) program for the U.S. Air Force, $105 million to provide cybersecurity support for an international customer and $98 million to provide support for the North Warning System for the Canadian government. IIS also booked $2,770 million on a number of classified contracts.

The bookings decrease of $487 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was driven primarily by the $1,581 million decrease in the specifically disclosed bookings below, partially offset by an increase in bookings on less significant awards not specifically disclosed primarily within our NMS and C2, Space and Intelligence (CSI) product lines. In 2018, IIS booked $497 million on domestic training programs and $322 million on foreign training programs in support of Warfighter FOCUS activities, $108 million to provide ISR support for the U.S. Air Force and $99 million on the AOC WS program for the U.S. Air Force. IIS also booked $2,648 million on a number of classified contracts.

In 2017, IIS booked approximately $1.4 billion on U.S. Air Force programs, $810 million on domestic training programs and $342 million on foreign training programs in support of Warfighter FOCUS activities, $233 million to upgrade the Phalanx Close-In Weapon System (CIWS) for the Royal Canadian Navy, $148 million on the Standard Terminal Automation Replacement System (STARS) program for the FAA, $106 million to provide ISR support for the U.S. Air Force, $98 million on the DOMino cyber program for the DHS, and $77 million to support the Naval Communications Station, Harold E Holt (HEH) facility for Australia. IIS also booked $2,041 million on a number of classified contracts, including $448 million on two multi-year awards for certain classified customers.

Missile Systems

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

MS designs, develops, integrates and produces missile and combat systems for the armed forces of the U.S. and allied nations. Leveraging its capabilities in advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high-resolution sensors, surveillance, 

 63
hypersonic systems, targeting and netted systems, MS provides and supports a broad range of advanced weapon systems including missiles, smart munitions, close-in weapon systems, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles, directed energy effectors and advanced combat sensor solutions. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force and Marine Corps, the MDA, and the armed forces of more than 50 allied nations.

Total Net Sales—The increase in total net sales of $428 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher net sales of $309 million on classified programs, partially offset by lower net sales of $270 million on the Paveway program due to planned decreases in production, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. 

The increase in total net sales of $511 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher net sales of $485 million on classified programs, partially offset by lower net sales of $219 million on the Paveway program principally driven by reductions of expected costs in the third quarter of 2017 to fulfill industrial cooperation agreements, and decreases in production costs and unit pricing.

Total Operating Expenses—The increase in total operating expenses of $442 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to an increase in labor costs of $295 million and an increase in other cost of sales and other operating expenses of $83 million. Almost half of the increase in labor costs was driven by increased activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. The increase in other cost of sales and other operating expenses was driven principally by a $73 million change in the amount of previously deferred precontract costs recognized based on contract awards.

The increase in total operating expenses of $548 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in materials and subcontractors costs of $319 million and an increase in labor costs of $236 million. The increase in materials and subcontractors costs was primarily due to activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales and activity on the SM-3 program due to planned increases in production. The increase in labor costs was driven principally by activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales.

Operating Income and Margin—The decrease in operating income of $14 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to a net change in EAC adjustments of $73 million, partially offset by an increase in volume of $56 million. The net change in EAC adjustments was primarily driven by a $39 million loss reserve recorded in the second quarter of 2019 for a potential termination for default on a U.S. customer program, as we determined we would not be able to execute the technical scope and other requirements, partially due to conditions outside our control, as discussed further in Commitments and Contingencies. Included in the net change in EAC adjustments was a total favorable adjustment of $26 million on two contracts in the second quarter of 2019 primarily driven by reductions of expected costs to fulfill industrial cooperation agreements for an international customer due to a favorable change in requirements. The increase in volume was principally driven by activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales. The decrease in operating margin in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the net change in EAC adjustments.

The decrease in operating income of $37 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to a change in mix and other performance of $109 million, partially offset by an increase in volume of $74 million. The change in mix and other performance was principally driven by activity on international Paveway programs, which had an impact of $37 million, and activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in volume was principally driven by activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales. Included in the net change in EAC adjustments were reductions of expected costs to fulfill industrial cooperation agreements for an international customer resulting in adjustments of $37 million and $36 million on two contracts due to a favorable change in requirements in the third quarter of 2017 and a negative profit adjustment of $26 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 on a next generation precision strike weapon contract due to an increase in costs to complete the program, including costs to fulfill higher order quantities on the final option year than previously expected, partially offset by an unfavorable $40 million adjustment on a $1.4 billion contract, driven by the final contract modification in the third quarter of 2017 which was less than we anticipated based upon the previous contract price negotiations. The decrease in operating margin in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the change in mix and other performance.

Backlog and Bookings—Backlog was $15,835 million, $13,976 million and $13,426 million at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in backlog of $1,859 million at December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 was primarily due to bookings in excess of sales within our Strategic and Naval Systems (SNS) product line. The increase in backlog of $550 million at December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 was primarily due to bookings in excess of 

 64
sales within our SNS product line, partially offset by sales in excess of bookings in the Air Warfare Systems (AWS) product line.

The bookings increase of $2,000 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was driven primarily by the $1,655 million increase in the specifically disclosed bookings below. In 2019, MS booked $1,037 million for Standard Missile-6 (SM-6) for the U.S. Navy, $1,010 million for SM-3 for the MDA and an international customer, $912 million for Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM) for the U.S. Air Force and Navy and international customers, $552 million for AIM-9X Sidewinder short-range air-to-air missiles for the U.S. Navy and Air Force and international customers, $507 million for Evolved Seasparrow Missile (ESSM) for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $507 million for Phalanx for the U.S. Navy and Army and international customers, $504 million for Tomahawk for the U.S. Navy and an international customer, $398 million for Paveway for the U.S. Air Force and international customers, $234 million for Excalibur for the U.S. Army and an international customer, $229 million for Tube-launched, Optically-tracked, Wireless-guided (TOW) missiles for the U.S. Army and Marine Corps and international customers, $198 million for the Coyote Rapid Development Program (CRDP) for U.S. customers, $197 million for Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM) for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $176 million for Miniature Air Launched Decoy (MALD) for the U.S. Air Force and Navy, $173 million for StormBreaker for the U.S. Air Force and Navy, $137 million for Commander’s Independent Thermal Viewers (CITV) for the U.S. Army and $132 million for High-Speed Anti-Radiation Missile (HARM) for the U.S. Air Force and Navy and international customers. MS also booked $2,827 million on a number of classified contracts.

The bookings decrease of $839 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was driven primarily by the $396 million decrease in the specifically disclosed bookings below and a decrease in bookings on less significant awards not specifically disclosed. In 2018, MS booked $1,106 million for SM-3 for the MDA and an international customer, $725 million for Phalanx CIWS for the U.S. Navy and Army and international customers, $699 million for AMRAAM for the U.S. Air Force and Navy and international customers, $554 million for AIM-9X Sidewinder short-range air-to-air missiles for U.S. Navy and Air Force and international customers, $471 million for StormBreaker, formerly called Small Diameter Bomb II (SDB II™), for the U.S. Air Force and Navy, $470 million for SM-6 for the U.S. Navy, $337 million for RAM for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $269 million for TOW missiles for the U.S. Army and Marine Corps and international customers, $267 million for Paveway for the U.S. Air Force and international customers, $235 million for Standard Missile-2 (SM-2) for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $226 million for Tomahawk for the U.S. Navy and Air Force and international customers, $216 million for ESSM for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $164 million for Javelin for the U.S. Army and international customers, $163 million for MALD for the U.S. Air Force, $114 million for CITV for the U.S. Army and an international customer, $113 million on the High-speed Unmanned Long-range Kinetic-kill (HULK) program for the U.S. Army, $112 million for Excalibur for the U.S. Army, $110 million for the Iron Dome Tamir production program for an international customer, $94 million for Horizontal Technology Integration (HTI) forward looking infrared (FLIR) kits for the U.S. Army and an international customer, and $75 million for the David's Sling weapon system’s Stunner Missile for an international customer. MS also booked $1,555 million on a number of classified contracts, including $127 million on a major contract.

In 2017, MS booked $2.2 billion for Paveway for the U.S. Air Force and international customers, $816 million for AMRAAM for the U.S. Air Force and Navy and international customers, $673 million for SM-3 for the MDA and international customers, $661 million for SM-2 for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $538 million for the Redesigned Kill Vehicle (RKV) program for the MDA, $468 million for the Joint Standoff Weapon (JSOW) for the U.S. Navy and Air Force and international customers, $424 million for Tomahawk for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $378 million for TOW missiles for the U.S. Army and Marine Corps and international customers, $347 million for AIM-9X Sidewinder short-range air-to-air missiles for the U.S. Navy, Air Force and Army and international customers, $214 million for Phalanx CIWS for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $214 million for Excalibur for the U.S. Army, $156 million for HTI FLIR kits for the U.S. Army and an international customer, $135 million for Javelin for the U.S. Army and international customers, $116 million for the Long Range Precision Fires (LRPF) Missile system for the U.S. Army and $104 million for Mobile Range for the U.S. Navy, Army and Air Force. MS also booked $1,027 million on classified contracts, including $223 million on a major contract.

 65
Space and Airborne Systems

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SAS is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of integrated sensor and communication systems for advanced missions. These missions include intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; precision engagement; manned and unmanned aerial operations; and space. Leveraging state-of-the-art technologies, mission systems and domain knowledge, SAS designs, manufactures, supports and sustains civil and military electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) sensors; airborne radars for surveillance and fire control applications; lasers; precision guidance systems; signals intelligence systems; processors; electronic warfare systems; tactical and strategic communications; and space-qualified systems. Key customers are the U.S. Navy, Air Force, and Army, international allies and classified customers.

Total Net Sales—The increase in total net sales of $679 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to higher net sales of $199 million on classified programs principally driven by 2018 awards, higher net sales of $115 million on the Next Gen OPIR program for the U.S. Air Force awarded in the third quarter of 2018, higher net sales of $89 million on IFF production programs primarily due to increased customer demand and higher net sales of $64 million on tactical radar systems development programs due to scheduled increases in program activity.

The increase in total net sales of $318 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to higher net sales of $91 million on a domestic tactical radar systems production program due to scheduled increases in production and higher net sales of $85 million on surveillance and targeting systems programs primarily due to a production program for the U.S. Air Force awarded in the third quarter of 2018 and planned increases in production on certain surveillance and targeting systems programs.

Total Operating Expenses—The increase in total operating expenses of $572 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to an increase in labor costs of $404 million and an increase in materials and subcontractors costs of $148 million. The increase in labor costs was primarily due to activity on the classified, Next Gen OPIR and tactical radar systems development programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in materials and subcontractors costs was primarily due to activity 

 66
on a surveillance and targeting systems production program for the U.S. Air Force awarded in the third quarter of 2018 and activity on the classified programs described above in Total Net Sales.

The increase in total operating expenses of $296 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to an increase in labor costs of $184 million and an increase in other costs of sales and other operating expenses of $179 million. The increase in labor costs was primarily due to activity on classified programs. The increase in other costs of sales and other operating expenses was primarily driven by an increase in general and administrative expenses of $84 million driven by higher independent research and development costs and an increase in other direct costs of $34 million principally due to an increase in software royalty and licensing costs based on the timing of program requirements.

Operating Income and Margin—The increase in operating income of $107 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily driven by an increase in volume of $66 million and a change in mix and other performance of $33 million. Almost half of the increase in volume was due to activity on the classified programs and the Next Gen OPIR program described above in Total Net Sales, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. Included in the change in mix and other performance was a $21 million gain on a real estate transaction in the fourth quarter of 2019, which was more than offset by activity on the classified programs described above and a gain of $8 million in the second quarter of 2018 from the sale of our commercial cloud-based call center analytics business. The remaining change was spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. The increase in operating margin in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the change in mix and other performance.

The increase in operating income of $22 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by a net change in EAC adjustments of $44 million and an increase in volume of $38 million, partially offset by a change in mix and other performance of $60 million. The net change in EAC adjustments was primarily driven by a change in net EAC adjustments on tactical communication systems development and production programs due to an increase in estimated labor costs in 2017 and labor and material production efficiencies in 2018 and a change in net EAC adjustments on a protected communication systems development program due to an increase in estimated labor and material costs in 2017, partially offset by a change in net EAC adjustments on surveillance and targeting systems programs due to labor and material production efficiencies in 2017 and an increase in estimated labor and material costs in 2018, with the remaining change spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. The increase in volume was driven by activity on the programs discussed above in Total Net Sales. The change in mix and other performance was primarily driven by lower activity on two international tactical radar systems programs due to scheduled completion of certain production phases. Included in mix and other performance was a gain of $8 million from the sale of our commercial cloud-based call center analytics business in the second quarter of 2018, which was recorded as a reduction to cost of sales, and a gain of $15 million on a real estate transaction in the second quarter of 2017. The decrease in operating margin in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the change in mix and other performance, partially offset by the net change in EAC adjustments.

Backlog and Bookings—Backlog was $11,525 million, $10,126 million and $8,611 million at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in backlog of $1,399 million at December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 was primarily due to bookings in excess of sales principally within our Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Systems (ISRS), Secure Sensor Solutions (S3), Integrated Communications Systems (ICS) and Electronic Warfare Systems (EWS) product lines. The increase in backlog of $1,515 million at December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 was primarily due to bookings in excess of sales principally within our ISRS and Space Systems (SS) product lines.

The bookings increase of $483 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was driven primarily by the $240 million increase in the specifically disclosed bookings below and an increase in bookings on less significant awards not specifically disclosed. In 2019, SAS booked $476 million on the Next Generation Jammer (NGJ) program for the U.S. Navy, $307 million on the Advanced Synthetic Aperture Radar System (ASARS) program for the U.S. Air Force, $239 million for airborne radars for the U.S. Navy, $227 million for radar components for the U.S. Navy, $212 million for the Multi-Spectral Targeting System (MTS) for the U.S. Air Force and various U.S. government customers, $189 million on the Global Aircrew Strategic Network Terminal (Global ASNT) program for the U.S. Air Force, $139 million on the Family of Advanced Beyond Line of Sight Terminals (FAB-T) program for the U.S. Air Force, $136 million for radar components for South Korea, $131 million for the Next Gen OPIR program for the U.S. Air Force, $112 million for missile seekers for the U.S. Navy and an international customer and $104 million for radar warning receivers for the U.S. Air Force. SAS also booked $2,082 million on a number of classified contracts.

 67
The bookings increase of $1,945 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was driven primarily by the $1,849 million increase in the specifically disclosed bookings below. In 2018, SAS booked $429 million for the Next Gen OPIR program for the U.S. Air Force, $349 million for radar components for the U.S. Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force, $347 million to provide support and sustainment services to the U.K. Royal Air Force's Shadow aircraft fleet, $287 million for the MTS for the U.S. Air Force, $136 million on the NGJ program for the U.S. Navy, $109 million for Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) radars for the U.S. Air Force and $90 million on the next-generation MTS for the U.S. Air Force. SAS also booked $2,367 million on a number of classified contracts, including $441 million for a major domestic classified program.

In 2017, SAS booked $256 million for AESA radars for the U.S. Air Force, $250 million on two contracts for international customers, one for military processors and one for radar warning receivers, approximately $200 million on classified and unclassified space programs and $175 million for radar components for the U.S. Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. SAS also booked $1,384 million on a number of classified contracts.

Forcepoint

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Forcepoint develops cybersecurity products serving commercial and government organizations worldwide. Forcepoint was created in May 2015 as a joint venture of Raytheon and Vista Equity Partners that brought together the capabilities of the legacy Raytheon Cyber Products (RCP) and Websense, Inc. (Websense) businesses. On November 18, 2019, Raytheon acquired Vista Equity Partners’ interest in Forcepoint, such that Forcepoint is now wholly owned by Raytheon. Refer to “Note 11: Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information. Forcepoint delivers a portfolio of human-centric cybersecurity capabilities that incorporate behavior based insights, including risk adaptive data loss prevention; user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) and cloud access security broker (CASB) capabilities; insider threat solutions; next-generation firewall (NGFW) technology; cloud and on premise web and email security; and cross domain transfer products.

Total Net Sales—The increase in total net sales of $24 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily driven by $32 million of higher Global Government and Critical Infrastructure sales primarily due to a higher volume of product bookings. Total net sales excluded the unfavorable impact related to the deferred revenue acquisition accounting adjustments described below in Acquisition Accounting Adjustments.

The increase in total net sales of $26 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by $31 million of higher Global Government and Critical Infrastructure sales from a higher volume of bookings. Total net sales excluded the unfavorable 

 68
impact related to the deferred revenue acquisition accounting adjustments described below in Acquisition Accounting Adjustments.

Total Operating Expenses—We disclose our operating expenses for the segment, which excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets and certain other acquisition and acquisition related expenses, in terms of the following:

–Cost of sales—labor and overhead costs associated with analytic and technical support services; infrastructure costs associated with maintaining our databases; and labor, materials and overhead costs associated with providing our product offerings; 

–Selling and marketing—labor costs related to personnel engaged in selling and marketing and customer support functions; costs related to public relations, advertising, promotions and travel; and related overhead costs; 

–Research and development—labor costs for the development and management of new and existing products; and related overhead costs; and 

–General and administrative—labor costs for our executive, finance and administrative personnel; third party professional service fees; and related overhead costs. 

Total operating expenses in 2019 increased $21 million compared to 2018 primarily driven by an increase in cost of sales of $28 million and an increase in general and administrative expenses of $9 million, partially offset by a decrease in research and development expenses of $18 million. The increase in cost of sales was principally due to staffing to support fulfillment of higher services sales. The increase in general and administrative expenses was principally driven by increased professional service fees to increase support capabilities to align with future growth. The decrease in research and development expenses was principally driven by optimization of our research and development labor force, including an increase in capitalized labor costs related to the development of our software-as-a-service platform. Total operating expenses excluded amortization of acquired intangible assets as described below in Acquisition Accounting Adjustments and certain unallocated costs which are included in Corporate.

Total operating expenses in 2018 increased $54 million compared to 2017 primarily driven by an increase in selling and marketing expenses of $32 million, an increase in general and administrative expenses of $15 million and an increase in cost of sales of $12 million. The increase in selling and marketing expenses was principally driven by higher costs for the sales organization due to increased staffing and training. The increase in general and administrative expenses was principally driven by increased staffing and professional services fees to increase support capabilities to align with future growth. The increase in cost of sales was principally driven by a change in sales mix due to increased hardware sales and increased staffing to support fulfillment of higher bookings volume. Total operating expenses excluded amortization of acquired intangible assets as described below in Acquisition Accounting Adjustments and certain unallocated costs which are included in Corporate.

Operating Income and Margin—The increase in operating income of $3 million and the related increase in operating margin in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the increase in total net sales described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the increase in expenses described above in Total Operating Expenses.

The decrease in operating income of $28 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the increase in total operating expenses described above in Total Operating Expenses, partially offset by the increase in total net sales described above in Total Net Sales. The decrease in operating margin in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the increase in total operating expenses described above in Total Operating Expenses.

Backlog and Bookings—Backlog was $538 million, $528 million and $484 million at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Backlog at December 31, 2019 was relatively consistent with December 31, 2018. The increase in backlog of $44 million at December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 was primarily due to bookings in excess of sales within the Global Governments and Critical Infrastructure product line.

Bookings decreased by $4 million in 2019 compared to 2018 due to a $32 million decrease in Enterprise Security bookings, partially offset by a $28 million increase in Global Government and Critical Infrastructure bookings.

Bookings increased by $61 million in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to a $39 million increase in Global Governments and Critical Infrastructure bookings and a $22 million increase in Enterprise Security bookings.

 69
Acquisition Accounting Adjustments

Acquisition Accounting Adjustments include the adjustments to record acquired deferred revenue at fair value as part of our purchase price allocation process, referred to as the deferred revenue adjustment, and the amortization of acquired intangible assets related to historical acquisitions. These adjustments are not considered part of management’s evaluation of segment results. 

The components of Acquisition Accounting Adjustments were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The deferred revenue adjustment related to acquisitions in the Forcepoint business segment. 

Amortization of acquired intangibles related to acquisitions in the segments was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The change in our Acquisition Accounting Adjustments of $14 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to a $9 million decrease in the deferred revenue adjustment, principally driven by lower amounts recognized related to the Stonesoft acquisition in the first quarter of 2016. 

The change in our Acquisition Accounting Adjustments of $34 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was due to a $25 million decrease in the deferred revenue adjustment, principally driven by lower amounts recognized related to the Websense acquisition in the second quarter of 2015. 

FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment

The FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment represents the difference between the service cost component of our pension and PRB expense or income under FAS requirements of U.S. GAAP and our pension and PRB expense under CAS. The results of each segment only include pension and PRB expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. government. 

The pension and PRB components of the FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 70
The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Operating Adjustment were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The key driver of the FAS/CAS Pension Operating Adjustment is that FAS service cost is the present value of the projected benefits attributable to service provided in the current year while CAS expense generally includes both the current year service related costs under CAS and gains or losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differs from our assumptions under CAS. The remaining components of FAS pension expense are recorded in retirement benefits non-service expense.

The change in our FAS/CAS Pension Operating Adjustment of $24 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was driven by an $84 million decrease in our FAS service cost, partially offset by a $60 million decrease in our CAS expense. The decrease in our FAS service cost was principally driven by the higher discount rate at December 31, 2018 compared to the discount rate at December 31, 2017. The decrease in our CAS expense was primarily due to unfavorable asset performance during 2018. 

The change in our FAS/CAS Pension Operating Adjustment of $124 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was driven by a $155 million increase in CAS expense, partially offset by a $31 million increase in FAS service cost. The increase in CAS expense was primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate used to measure liabilities in determining CAS expense for 2018 compared to 2017 as described above in Critical Accounting Estimates and our actuarial update, which takes into account updated census data. The change in the discount rate used to measure liabilities for purposes of determining CAS pension expense has been included in our contracts through our overhead forward pricing rates. The increase in FAS service cost was primarily driven by the lower discount rate at December 31, 2017 compared to the discount rate at December 31, 2016.

The components of the FAS/CAS PRB Operating Adjustment were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For 2020 compared to 2019, we currently expect our FAS service cost to increase by $82 million and our CAS expense to increase by $109 million driven by the differences in the assumptions and the recognition period for gains and losses under CAS. Both FAS service cost and CAS expense are subject to our actuarial update, as discussed above. After 2020, the FAS/CAS Operating Adjustment becomes more difficult to predict because FAS service cost and CAS expense are based on a number of key assumptions for future periods.

Corporate and Reclassification

Corporate operating income (expense) consists of unallocated costs and certain other corporate costs not considered part of management’s evaluation of reportable segment operating performance or the allocation of resources to the segments. 

Operating income (expense) related to Corporate and Reclassification was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The change in operating income (expense) related to Corporate and other unallocated costs of $80 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to $51 million of costs in 2019 related to the proposed merger with UTC. Included in the change in operating income (expense) related to Corporate and other unallocated costs was $13 million of net expenses related to the LTAMDS project, for which the company was selected in the fourth quarter of 2019. The net expenses related to the LTAMDS 

 71
project are included in Corporate and other unallocated costs as they are not included in management’s evaluation of business segment results.

In the third quarter of 2019, the Company revalued an investment in equity securities of a non-publicly traded company due to the availability of updated pricing data from a recent transaction and recognized a non-cash gain of $14 million. The gain is included in IIS’s operating income in 2019 as it is part of management’s evaluation of the segment’s performance and reclassified through Corporate and Reclassification to other (income) expense, net on our consolidated statements of operations for financial reporting purposes as the gain is not related to our core operations.

Operating income (expense) related to Corporate and other unallocated costs in 2018 included miscellaneous favorable items not allocated to segments results and was relatively consistent with 2017.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

Overview

We currently expect that cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and other available financing resources will be sufficient to meet anticipated operating, capital expenditure, investment, debt service and other financing requirements during the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. Our need for, cost of and access to funds are dependent on future operating results, as well as other external conditions. 

In addition, the following table highlights selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at December 31: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts have been recast to reflect the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).

Operating Activities 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase of $1,052 million in net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in pension contributions driven by the $1.25 billion discretionary contribution in the third quarter of 2018, as discussed below in Pension Plan Contributions, partially offset by higher net tax payments as discussed below in Tax Payments and Refunds. The increase of $683 million in net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to lower net tax payments, as discussed below in Tax Payments and Refunds, and the timing of vendor payments, partially offset by an increase in pension contributions, as discussed below.

Pension Plan Contributions—We may make both required and discretionary contributions to our pension plans. Required contributions are primarily determined in accordance with the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), which amended the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) rules, and are affected by the actual return on plan assets (ROA) and plan funded status. The funding requirements under the PPA require us to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven-year period as determined annually based upon the funded status at the beginning of the year. The PPA funded status is based on actual asset performance, averaged over three years and PPA discount rates, which are based on a 24-month average of high quality corporate bond rates, as published by the IRS. As discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, the STE Act, the HATFA and the BBA of 2015 were passed by Congress and signed by the President in 2012, 2014 and 2015, respectively. The STE Act includes a provision for temporary pension funding relief due to the low interest rate environment. The provision adjusts the 24-month average high quality corporate bond rates used to determine the PPA funded status so that they are within a floor and cap, or “corridor,” based on the 25-year average of corporate bond rates. The STE Act gradually phased out this interest rate provision beginning in 2013. The HATFA and the BBA of 2015 extended the phase out provisions through 2020. As a result, the interest rates used to determine PPA funded status will continue to be adjusted within a “corridor” and do not begin to phase out until after 2020.

 72
We made the following required and discretionary contributions during the years ended December 31:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in required pension contributions of $546 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily driven by the $1.25 billion discretionary pension contribution made in the third quarter 2018, of which we elected to apply approximately $1 billion to partially offset required contributions in 2019 and 2020, roughly split evenly between the two years. The increase in required pension contributions of $274 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily driven by the low interest rate environment.

We expect to make required contributions to our pension and PRB plans of $369 million in 2020. We periodically evaluate whether to make discretionary pension contributions. Due to the differences in requirements and calculation methodologies, our FAS pension expense or income is not indicative of the funding requirement or amount of CAS recovered. 

Timing of contributions to the pension and PRB plans under PPA differs from the recovery of CAS expense. Cumulatively, our contributions have exceeded our recovery of CAS expense creating a prepayment credit under the CAS rules. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our prepayment credit balances were $7.4 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively. Future contributions in excess of CAS expense will increase the prepayment credit balance while CAS expense in excess of contributions will reduce the prepayment credit balance. Actual plan asset investment returns also impact the prepayment credit balance.

Tax Payments and Refunds—We made (received) the following net tax payments (refunds) during the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in net tax payments of $814 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the timing and amount of pension contributions. Federal and foreign net tax payments for 2020 are expected to approximate $914 million. The increase in expected federal and foreign net tax payments in 2020 is primarily due to an expected increase in operating income.

The decrease in net tax payments of $861 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (2017 Act) and the timing and amount of pension contributions. 

Interest Payments—We made interest payments on our outstanding debt of $193 million, $194 million and $214 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Interest payments in 2019 were relatively consistent with 2018. The decrease in interest payments in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the repayment of $591 million of long-term debt in the second quarter of 2017. 

Investing Activities 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The change in net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of $482 million in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to our short-term investments activity, as described below in Short-term Investments Activity, and an increase in additions to property, plant and equipment as described below in Additions to Property, Plant and Equipment and Capitalized Internal-

 73
Use Software. The change in net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of $296 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to our short-term investment activity, as described below in Short-term Investments Activity, partially offset by an increase in additions to property, plant and equipment as described below in Additions to Property, Plant and Equipment and Capitalized Internal-Use Software.

Additions to Property, Plant and Equipment and Capitalized Internal-Use Software—Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized internal-use software were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increases in additions to property, plant and equipment of $179 million in 2019 compared to 2018 and $220 million in 2018 compared to 2017 were both primarily driven by program related requirements, due to recent and anticipated growth, and investment in productivity initiatives, including high-technology production facilities and continued factory automation upgrades.

We expect full-year property, plant and equipment and capitalized internal-use software expenditures to be between approximately $825–$900 million and $60–$85 million, respectively, in 2020, consistent with the anticipated needs of our business and for specific investments including capital assets and facility improvements.

Short-term Investments Activity—We may invest in marketable securities in accordance with our short-term investment policy and cash management strategy. Marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value as short-term investments in our consolidated balance sheets. Activity related to short-term investments was as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Acquisitions and Divestitures—In pursuing our business strategies, we acquire and make investments in certain businesses that meet strategic and financial criteria, and divest of certain non-core businesses, investments and assets when appropriate. In the first quarter of 2019, we amended and restated the RGNext joint venture agreement and acquired an additional 10% equity ownership in the joint venture increasing our equity ownership to 60%. See “Note 4: Acquisitions, Divestitures and Goodwill” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional detail. In May 2018, we completed the sale of our commercial cloud-based call center analytics solutions business for $11 million in cash, net of transaction-related costs. In 2017, Forcepoint acquired RedOwl Analytics Inc. and the Skyfence CASB business for a total of $93 million.

Financing Activities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generally use cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from the issuance of new debt as our primary source for the repayment of debt, payment of dividends, pension contributions and the repurchase of our common stock. The change of $405 million in net cash provided by (used in) financing activities in 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to a $588 million payment related to the acquisition of noncontrolling interest in Forcepoint and net repayments of commercial paper of $300 million in the third quarter of 2019, partially offset by the activity on our share repurchase programs, as discussed below in Share Repurchases.

The change of $282 million in net cash provided by (used in) financing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to the activity on our share repurchases as discussed below and net proceeds from commercial paper issuances of $300 million in 2017, partially offset by the repayment of $591 million of long-term debt in the second quarter of 2017.

 74
Share Repurchases—From time to time, our Board of Directors authorizes the repurchase of shares of our common stock. In November 2015, our Board authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. In November 2017, our Board also authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. At December 31, 2019, we had approximately $0.7 billion available under the 2017 repurchase program. However, the merger agreement with UTC restricts us from repurchasing shares other than to satisfy tax withholding obligations. For more information refer to “Note 2: Proposed Merger with United Technologies Corporation (UTC)” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Share repurchases also include shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs) and Long-term Performance Plan (LTPP) awards issued to employees. 

Our share repurchases were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Dividends—Our Board of Directors authorized the following cash dividends:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In March 2019, our Board of Directors authorized an 8.6% increase to our annual dividend payout rate from $3.47 to $3.77 per share. In March 2018, our Board of Directors authorized an 8.8% increase to our annual dividend payout rate from $3.19 to $3.47 per share. Dividends are subject to quarterly approval by our Board of Directors.

Acquisition of Noncontrolling Interest in Forcepoint—In October 2019, Vista Equity Partners formally exercised its put right to require Raytheon to purchase Vista Equity Partners’ interest in Forcepoint. As a result, the parties engaged in a formal process under the joint venture agreement to determine the fair value, as defined in the joint venture agreement, of such interest. On November 18, 2019, Raytheon completed the acquisition of Vista Equity Partners’ interest in Forcepoint for $588 million in cash.

Long-term Debt—In the second quarter of 2017, we exercised our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to the U.S. Treasury rates, $591 million of our long-term debt due March and December 2018 at a loss of $39 million before tax, $25 million net of tax, which is included in other (income) expense, net.

CAPITAL RESOURCES

Long-term Debt—Total long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt was $4.8 billion at both December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. Our outstanding debt bears contractual interest at fixed interest rates ranging from 2.5% to 7.2% and matures at various dates from 2020 through 2044. We expect to pay down the $500 million of long-term debt due in February 2020 using cash on hand.

Cash and Cash Equivalents—Cash and cash equivalents were $4.3 billion and $3.6 billion at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. We may invest in: U.S. Treasuries; AAA/Aaa rated money market funds; certificates of deposit, time deposits and commercial paper of banks with a minimum long-term debt rating of A or A2 and minimum short-term debt rating of A-1 and P-1; and commercial paper of corporations with a minimum long-term debt rating of A- or A3 and minimum short-term debt rating of A-2 and P-2. Cash and cash equivalents balances held at our foreign subsidiaries were $245 million and $326 million at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. Our undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are not permanently reinvested. We continuously evaluate our liquidity needs and ability to meet global cash requirements as a part of our overall capital deployment strategy. Factors that affect our global capital deployment strategy 

 75
include anticipated cash flows, the ability to repatriate cash in a tax efficient manner, funding requirements for operations and investment activities, acquisitions and divestitures, and capital market conditions. 

Commercial Paper—The Company may issue up to $1.25 billion of unsecured commercial paper notes, as the commercial paper is backed by our credit facility. In 2019, we made net repayments of $300 million to reduce our short-term commercial paper borrowings outstanding to zero at December 31, 2019. The maximum amount of short-term commercial paper borrowings outstanding during 2019 was $300 million. At December 31, 2018, short-term commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $300 million, which had a weighted-average interest rate and original maturity period of 2.954% and 16 days, respectively. 

Credit Facilities—In September 2019, we entered into a $1.25 billion revolving credit facility maturing in November 2021 and terminated the previous $1.25 billion revolving credit facility maturing in November 2020 without penalty. Under the credit facility, we can borrow, issue letters of credit and backstop commercial paper. Borrowings under this facility bear interest at various rate options, including LIBOR plus a margin based on our credit ratings. Based on our credit ratings at December 31, 2019, borrowings would generally bear interest at LIBOR plus 80.5 basis points. The credit facility is composed of commitments from 20 separate highly rated lenders, each committing no more than 10% of the facility. As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 there were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under our credit facilities. 

Under the $1.25 billion credit facility we must comply with certain covenants, including a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no more than 60%. Our ratio of total debt to total capitalization, as those terms are defined in the credit facility, was 28.0% at December 31, 2019. We are providing this ratio as this metric is used by our lenders to monitor our leverage and is also a threshold that could limit our ability to utilize this facility. We were in compliance with our credit facility covenants as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.

In May 2019, we entered into treasury rate lock contracts with a notional amount of $375 million, which were settled in the fourth quarter of 2019 without the issuance of debt due to merger-related considerations.

Shelf Registrations—We have an effective shelf registration statement with the SEC, filed in March 2019, which covers the registration of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock and warrants.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following is a schedule of our contractual obligations outstanding at December 31, 2019: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Debt includes scheduled principal payments only.

(2)Amounts beyond 2024 for required pension and PRB contributions are not included.

Interest payments in the table above include interest on debt that is redeemable at our option. Purchase obligations in the table above represent enforceable and legally binding agreements with suppliers to purchase goods or services. We enter into contracts with customers, primarily the U.S. government, which entitle us to full recourse for costs incurred, including purchase obligations, in the event the contract is terminated by the customer for convenience. These purchase obligations are included above notwithstanding the amount for which we are entitled to full recourse from our customers. 

Required pension and PRB contributions in the table above are strictly based on the current funded status of our pension and PRB plans and our current assumptions outlined in the Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit (PRB) Costs section of Critical Accounting Estimates. Actual results will vary based upon discount rates, asset returns, changes in actuarial assumptions, demographic experience and regulatory requirements for each year. Assuming high quality corporate bond rates 

 76
remain consistent with our current assumption, discount rates used to determine funding requirements under the BBA of 2015 will be approximately 5.3% for 2020, 4.9% for 2021, 4.5% for 2022, 4.1% for 2023, and 3.7% for 2024.

As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and the accrual for the related interest, net of the federal benefit, was $232 million and $92 million, respectively, and was included in accrued retiree benefits and other long-term liabilities. These amounts were not included in the table above because we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when a cash settlement, if any, will occur with a tax authority as the timing of examinations and ultimate resolutions of those examinations is uncertain.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

At December 31, 2019, we had no significant off-balance sheet arrangements other than guarantees to third parties on behalf of our affiliates as described below in Commitments and Contingencies. Such arrangements are not material to our overall liquidity or capital resources, market risk support or credit risk support as described below.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Environmental Matters—We are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to remediation of various environmental sites. Our estimate of the liability of total environmental remediation costs includes the use of a discount rate and takes into account that a portion of these costs is eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. government. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs, which requires us to make assumptions about the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. We consider such recovery probable based on government contracting regulations and our long history of receiving reimbursement for such costs, and accordingly have recorded the estimated future recovery of these costs from the U.S. government within prepaid expenses and other current assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Our estimates regarding remediation costs to be incurred were as follows at December 31: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We also lease certain government-owned properties and generally are not liable for remediation of preexisting environmental contamination at these sites. As a result, we generally do not provide for these costs in our consolidated financial statements.

Due to the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup methods and technologies, the uncertainty of insurance coverage, and the unresolved extent of our responsibility, it is difficult to determine the ultimate outcome of environmental matters. However, we do not expect any additional liability to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

Environmental remediation costs expected to be incurred are: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 77
Financing Arrangements and Other—We issue guarantees, and banks and surety companies issue, on our behalf, letters of credit and surety bonds, to meet various bid, performance, warranty, retention and advance payment obligations for us or our affiliates. These instruments expire on various dates through 2028. Additional guarantees of project performance for which there is no stated value also remain outstanding. The stated values outstanding consisted of the following at December 31:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We provide guarantees and letters of credit to certain affiliates to assist them in obtaining financing on more favorable terms, making bids on contracts and performing their contractual obligations. While we expect our affiliates to satisfy their loans and meet their project performance and other contractual obligations, their failure to do so may result in a future obligation to us. We periodically evaluate the risk of our affiliates failing to meet their obligations. At December 31, 2019, we believe the risk that our affiliates will not be able to meet their obligations is minimal for the foreseeable future based on their current financial condition. All obligations were current at December 31, 2019. At both December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had an estimated liability of $3 million related to these guarantees.

We have entered into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes in the form of either offset agreements or ICIP agreements, as a condition to obtaining orders for our products and services from certain customers in foreign countries. At December 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of our offset agreements, both agreed to and anticipated to be agreed to, had an outstanding notional value of approximately $9.5 billion. To the extent we have entered into purchase obligations that satisfy our offset agreements, those amounts are included within the table in Contractual Obligations. These agreements are designed to return economic value to the foreign country by requiring us to engage in activities supporting local defense or commercial industries, promoting a balance of trade, developing in-country technology capabilities or addressing other local development priorities. Offset agreements may be satisfied through activities that do not require a direct cash payment, including transferring technology, providing manufacturing, training and other consulting support to in-country projects, and the purchase by third parties (e.g., our vendors) of supplies from in-country vendors. These agreements may also be satisfied through our use of cash for activities such as subcontracting with local partners, purchasing supplies from in-country vendors, providing financial support for in-country projects and making investments in local ventures. Such activities may also vary by country depending upon requirements as dictated by their governments. We typically do not commit to offset agreements until orders for our products or services are definitive. The amounts ultimately applied against our offset agreements are based on negotiations with the customers and typically require cash outlays that represent only a fraction of the notional value in the offset agreements. Offset programs usually extend over several or more years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. Historically, we have not been required to pay any penalties of significance.

As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to many levels of audit and investigation by the U.S. government relating to our contract performance and compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Agencies that oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA); the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA); the Inspectors General of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and other departments and agencies; the Government Accountability Office (GAO); the Department of Justice (DOJ); and Congressional Committees. Other areas of our business operations may also be subject to audit and investigation by these and/or other agencies. From time to time, agencies investigate or conduct audits to determine whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements. Such investigations and audits may be initiated due to a number of reasons, including as a result of a whistleblower complaint. Such investigations and audits could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, the suspension of government export licenses or the suspension or debarment from future U.S. government contracting. U.S. government investigations often take years to complete and many result in no adverse action against us. Our final allowable incurred costs for each year are also subject to audit and have, from time to time, resulted in disputes between us and the U.S. government, with litigation resulting at the Court of Federal Claims (COFC) or the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA) or their related courts of appeals. In addition, the DOJ has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S., and those sales are subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with such local government regulations or any applicable U.S. government regulations (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)) may also be investigated or audited. Other than as specifically disclosed herein, we do 

 78
not expect these audits, investigations or disputes to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, either individually or in the aggregate.

We do not expect any material impact on our financial results from regional disputes with Qatar and less than 7% of our backlog at December 31, 2019 relates to contracts in Qatar.

Although we currently do not expect to be prevented from doing business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), if government action impairs our ability to fulfill our contractual obligations or otherwise to continue to do business in KSA, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. KSA represents less than 5% of our sales and $2.9 billion of our backlog at December 31, 2019. This includes the majority of the precision guided munitions described below, integrated air and missile defense systems, as well as other products and services. 

We have several direct commercial sales contracts for precision guided munitions with certain Middle Eastern customers for which U.S. government approvals from the State Department and Congress through the Congressional Notification process were previously delayed. On May 24, 2019, the Administration announced an emergency certification authorizing the immediate export of 22 pending arms sales to Jordan, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and KSA, waiving the requirement of Congressional Notification of these arms sales. As a result, we were able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and licenses for all of our contracts except for those that were not subject to the emergency certification. On contracts not subject to the emergency certification, we had approximately $1.2 billion of total contract value, recognized approximately $400 million of sales for work performed to date and received approximately $500 million in advances as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, one of those contracts, which has a contract value of $835 million, also requires U.K. government approval. In June 2019, the U.K.’s Court of Appeal determined that the U.K. government was not fully compliant with the legal requirements in issuing export licenses for weapons to KSA. While the U.K.’s Court of Appeal did not prohibit the issuance of licenses in the future, the U.K. government will need to comply with the ruling before issuing licenses or obtain a reversal of the decision on appeal. If we ultimately do not receive all of the regulatory approvals and licenses, it would have a material effect on our financial results.

In July 2019, the U.S. government suspended Turkey’s participation in the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program because Turkey accepted delivery of the Russian-built S-400 air and missile defense system, and on October 14, 2019, the Administration imposed sanctions on several Turkish ministers and departments, including the Ministry of National Defence, due to Turkey’s military advance into Syria. Also in October 2019, certain European countries imposed arms embargoes on Turkey. On October 23, 2019, the Administration removed all of the sanctions imposed on October 14, 2019; however, the U.S. government and other governments may impose additional sanctions or embargoes. For a limited number of our programs, we procure materials and components from Turkish suppliers on a sole-source basis. We also have an immaterial amount of sales and backlog related to Turkey. Such sanctions or actions, and any potential reciprocal actions, could impact our businesses’ sources of supply and ability to make certain contractual deliveries, as well as our ability to sell to Turkey; however, at this time, we do not expect any potential actions to have a material adverse effect on our financial results.

In the second quarter of 2019, we identified and notified a U.S. customer that we determined we would not be able to execute on the technical scope and other requirements of an $85 million Missile Systems fixed-price program, partially due to conditions outside our control. As a result, although we continue to work with the customer to determine changes to the contract that would be mutually acceptable, we accrued a loss of $39 million in the second quarter of 2019 at Missile Systems for a potential termination for default on the program. Our estimate of the loss was based on progress payments received to date, firm commitments to suppliers on the program and administrative costs of the customer. We believe it is remote that we will ultimately be liable for damages or the customer’s potential excess reprocurement costs, and we are unable to estimate these amounts for which we could be liable given the complexities of determining such costs under the applicable regulations.

Raytheon has received a subpoena from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) seeking information in connection with an investigation into whether there were improper payments made by Thales-Raytheon Systems (TRS), Raytheon or anyone acting on their behalf in connection with TRS or Raytheon contracts in certain Middle East countries since 2014. Raytheon maintains a rigorous anti-corruption compliance program, is cooperating fully with the SEC’s inquiry, and is examining whether there has been any conduct that is in violation of Raytheon policy. At this point there is no ability to predict the outcome of the SEC’s inquiry. Based on the information available to date, however, we do not believe the results of this inquiry will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

 79
On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which British citizens approved an exit from the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as “Brexit.” On January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally left the EU with a withdrawal agreement, which includes a transition period that is currently scheduled to end on December 31, 2020. During the transition period, the U.K. will remain part of the EU’s customs union and single market, and will work towards negotiating a trade deal with the EU before the transition period ends. As a result of the referendum, and the subsequent formal U.K. exit, there has been volatility in exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. The British pound is the functional currency for approximately 2% of our sales. In addition, for any contracts that are not denominated in the same currency as the functional currency (for example, contracts denominated in British pounds where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar), we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our risk related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, we currently do not expect the U.K.’s exit from the EU to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 

In addition, various other claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened against, or initiated by, us. We do not expect any of these proceedings to result in any additional liability or gains that would materially affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In connection with certain of our legal matters, we may be entitled to insurance recovery for qualified legal costs or other incurred costs. We do not expect any insurance recovery to have a material impact on the financial exposure that could result from these matters.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK