ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. 

We generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. We may enter into interest rate swap agreements or treasury rate lock contracts with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments, payments to vendors and customer receipts denominated in foreign currencies. The market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

The following tables provide information as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. For long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. There were no interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018.

Principal payments and interest rate detail for long-term debt by contractual maturity date as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In May 2019, we entered into treasury rate lock contracts with a notional amount of $375 million, which were settled in the fourth quarter of 2019 without the issuance of debt due to merger-related considerations. In addition, the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,487 million and $1,772 million at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The net notional exposure of these foreign currency forward contracts was $746 million and $840 million at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.

 80
The fair value of asset derivatives included in other assets, net and liability derivatives included in other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets related to foreign currency forward contracts were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For foreign currency forward contracts and treasury rate lock contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the gain or loss on the derivative in AOCL, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue, cost of sales or interest expense transaction affects earnings. We present the gain or loss in the same income statement line items as the earnings effect of the hedged item, which offsets the foreign exchange or interest rate gains and losses on the underlying transactions being hedged. We believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency and interest rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 

 81
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA