Item 1. BUSINESS

General

UDR is a self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT, that owns, operates, acquires, renovates, develops, redevelops, disposes of, and manages multifamily apartment communities generally located in high barrier-to-entry markets throughout the United States. The high barrier-to-entry markets are characterized by limited land for new construction, difficult and lengthy entitlement processes, low single-family home affordability and strong employment growth potential. At December 31, 2019, our consolidated real estate portfolio consisted of 148 communities located in 20 markets, consisting of 47,010 completed apartment homes, which are held directly or through our subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership and the DownREIT Partnership, and consolidated joint ventures. In addition, we have an ownership interest in 5,268 completed or to-be-completed apartment homes through unconsolidated joint ventures or partnerships, including 2,138 apartment homes owned by entities in which we hold preferred equity investments. At December 31, 2019, the Company was developing three wholly-owned communities totaling 878 homes, none of which have been completed.

At December 31, 2019, the Operating Partnership’s consolidated real estate portfolio included 52 communities located in 15 markets, with a total of 16,434 completed apartment homes. The Operating Partnership owns, operates, acquires, renovates, develops, redevelops, disposes of, and manages multifamily apartment communities generally located in high barrier-to-entry markets located throughout the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2019, rental revenues of the Operating Partnership represented approximately 39% of our total rental revenues.

UDR has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to in this Report as the “Code.” To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent we distribute such net income to our stockholders annually. In 2019, we declared total distributions of $1.37 per common share and paid dividends of $1.35 per common share.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

UDR was formed in 1972 as a Virginia corporation. In June 2003, we changed our state of incorporation from Virginia to Maryland. The Operating Partnership is the successor-in-interest to United Dominion Realty, L.P., a limited partnership formed under the laws of Virginia, which commenced operations in 1995. The Operating Partnership was redomiciled in 2004 as a Delaware limited partnership. Our corporate offices are located at 1745 Shea Center Drive, Suite 200, Highlands Ranch, Colorado and our telephone number is (720) 283-6120. Our website is www.udr.com. The information contained on our website, including any information referred to in this Report as being available on our website, is not a part of or incorporated into this Report.

As of February 17, 2020, we had 1,330 full-time associates and 21 part-time associates, all of whom were employed by UDR.

Reporting Segments

We report in two segments: Same-Store Communities and Non-Mature Communities/Other.

Our Same-Store Communities segment represents those communities acquired, developed, and stabilized prior to January 1, 2018, and held as of December 31, 2019. These communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year, there is no plan to conduct substantial redevelopment activities, and the communities are not classified as held for disposition at year end. A community is considered to have stabilized occupancy once it achieves 90% occupancy for at least three consecutive months.

3 
Our Non-Mature Communities/Other segment represents those communities that do not meet the criteria to be included in Same-Store Communities, including, but not limited to, recently acquired, developed and redeveloped communities, and the non-apartment components of mixed use properties. For additional information regarding our operating segments, see Note 16, Reportable Segments, in the Notes to the UDR Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report and Note 12, Reportable Segments, in the Notes to the Operating Partnership’s Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.

Business Objectives

Our principal business objective is to maximize the economic returns of our apartment communities to provide our stockholders with the greatest possible total return and value. To achieve this objective, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies:

●own and operate apartments in high barrier-to-entry markets, which are characterized by limited land for new construction, difficult and lengthy entitlement processes, low single-family home affordability and strong employment growth potential, thus enhancing stability and predictability of returns to our stockholders;

●manage real estate cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, renovating, redeveloping, and developing apartment communities;

●empower site associates to manage our communities efficiently and effectively;

●measure and reward associates based on specific performance targets; and

●manage our capital structure to help enhance predictability of liquidity, earnings and dividends.

2019 Highlights

● In July 2019, the Company marked its 47th year as a REIT and, in October 2019, paid its 188th consecutive quarterly dividend. The Company’s annualized declared 2019 dividend of $1.37 represented a 6.2% increase over the previous year.

●

Total revenues increased 10.1% over the prior year primarily due to communities acquired during 2019 and rent growth.

● We achieved Same-Store revenue growth of 3.6% and Same-Store net operating income (“NOI”) growth of 4.0%.

● We commenced the development of three communities located in Denver, Colorado, Dublin, California, and Addison, Texas, with a total of 878 apartment homes.

● We acquired eight communities with a total of 2,919 apartment homes located in Brooklyn, New York, St. Petersburg, Florida, Towson, Maryland, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, Waltham, Massachusetts, Norwood, Massachusetts, and Englewood, New Jersey, for a total of approximately $911.9 million.

● We acquired two to-be-developed land parcels located in Washington, D.C., and Denver, Colorado, for a total of approximately $40.8 million.

● We increased our ownership interest in two communities from our West Coast Development joint venture with a total of 541 apartment homes, located in Anaheim, California and Seattle, Washington, for a total cash purchase price of approximately $53.5 million after the repayment of joint venture construction financing.

● We increased our ownership interest in one community from our UDR/KFH joint venture with a total of 292 apartment homes, located in Washington, D.C., for a total of $186.8 million and sold our 30% ownership interest in two communities from our UDR/KFH joint venture with a total of 368 apartment homes, located in Arlington, Virginia and Silver Spring, Maryland, for a collective sales price of $118.3 million, resulting in a gain on sale of approximately $10.6 million.

4 
● We acquired the approximately 50% ownership interest not previously owned in 10 UDR/MetLife joint venture operating communities, one development community and four land parcels valued at $1.1 billion, or $564.2 million at our share, and sold our approximately 50% ownership interest in five UDR/MetLife joint venture operating communities valued at $645.8 million, or $322.9 million at our share, to MetLife, and recognized a net gain on sale of $114.9 million at our share.

● We recognized a gain of $5.3 million from the sale of a parcel of land in Los Angeles, California.

● We contributed $67.0 million to four investments under our Developer Capital Program, which earn preferred returns ranging between 9.0% to 12.5%.

●We issued $1.1 billion of senior unsecured medium-term notes (including a $300.0 million “green bond”) at a weighted average interest rate of 3.2%, and prepaid $700.0 million of senior unsecured medium-term notes at a weighted average interest rate of 4.2%. 

● We sold 7.0 million shares of common stock for aggregate net proceeds of $312.3 million at a weighted average price per share of $45.29 under our ATM program, and sold 1.3 million shares of common stock through a forward sales agreement for aggregate net proceeds of $63.5 million at a weighted average price per share of $47.41, which was also under our ATM program.

● We sold an additional 7.5 million shares of common stock in an underwritten public offering for net proceeds of $349.8 million at a price per share of $46.65.

Refer to Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information on the Company’s and the Operating Partnership’s activities in 2019.

Our Strategic Vision

Our strategic vision is to be the multifamily public REIT of choice. We intend to realize this vision by executing on our strategic objectives, which are:

1.Maintaining a Diversified Portfolio and Allocating Capital to Accretive Investment Opportunities

2.Maintaining a Strong Balance Sheet

3.Consistently Driving Operating Excellence

4.Advancing a Strong Corporate Culture and Ensuring High Resident Satisfaction

Maintaining a Diversified Portfolio and Allocating Capital to Accretive Investment Opportunities

We believe greater portfolio diversification, as defined by geographic concentration, location within a market (i.e., urban or suburban) and property quality (i.e., A or B), reduces the volatility of our same-store growth throughout the real estate cycle, appeals to a wider renter and investor audience and lessens the market risk associated with owning a homogenous portfolio. Diversified characteristics of our portfolio include:

●our consolidated apartment portfolio includes 148 communities located in 20 markets throughout the U.S., including both coastal and sunbelt locations; and

●our mix of urban/suburban communities is approximately 43%/57% and our mix of A/B quality properties is approximately 57%/43%.

We are focused on increasing our presence in markets with favorable job formation, high propensity to rent, low single-family home affordability, and a favorable demand/supply ratio for multifamily housing. Portfolio investment decisions consider internal analyses and third-party research.

Acquisitions and Dispositions

When evaluating potential acquisitions, we consider a wide variety of factors, including:

●whether it is located in a high barrier-to-entry market;

5 
●population growth, cost of alternative housing, overall potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the market in which the property is located;

●geographic location, including proximity to jobs, entertainment, transportation, and our existing communities which can deliver significant economies of scale;

●construction quality, condition and design of the property;

●current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability to increase cash flow;

●ability of the property’s projected returns to exceed our cost of capital;

●potential for capital appreciation of the property;

●ability to increase the value and profitability of the property through operations and redevelopment;

●terms of resident leases, including the potential for rent increases;

●occupancy and demand by residents for properties of a similar type in the vicinity;

●prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing of the property; and

●competition from existing multifamily communities and the potential for the construction of new multifamily properties in the area.

We regularly monitor our assets to increase the quality and performance of our portfolio. Factors we consider in deciding whether to dispose of a property include:

●whether it is in a market targeted for divestment or a reduction in investment;

●current market price for an asset compared to projected economics for that asset;

●potential increases in new construction in the market area;

●areas with low job growth prospects;

●near- and long-term capital expenditure needs for the asset; and

●operating efficiencies.

The following table summarizes our apartment community acquisitions and dispositions and our consolidated year-end ownership position for the past five years (dollars in thousands):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

​

The following table summarizes the Operating Partnership’s apartment community acquisitions and dispositions and year-end ownership position for the past five years (dollars in thousands):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)

Includes 3,107 homes deconsolidated in 2015 upon contribution of communities by the Operating Partnership to the DownREIT Partnership.

6 
Development Activities

Our objective in developing a community is to create value while improving the quality of our portfolio. How demographic trends, economic drivers, and multifamily fundamentals and valuations have trended over the long-term and our portfolio strategy generally govern our review process on where and when to allocate development capital. At December 31, 2019, the Company was developing three wholly-owned communities located in Denver, Colorado, Addison, Texas, and Dublin, California, totaling 878 homes, none of which have been completed, with a budget of $278.5 million, in which we have a carrying value of $69.8 million. The communities are estimated to be completed between the first quarter of 2021 and the second quarter of 2022. 

Redevelopment Activities

Our objective in redeveloping a community is twofold: we aim to grow rental rates while also producing a higher yielding and more valuable asset through asset quality improvement. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred $35.6 million in major renovations, which include major structural changes and/or architectural revisions to existing buildings. As of December 31, 2019, the Company was redeveloping 653 apartment homes, 250 of which have been completed, at two wholly-owned communities, located in Boston, Massachusetts and New York, New York, both of which are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2021. The redevelopments include the renovation of building exteriors, corridors, and common area amenities as well as individual apartment homes.

Joint Venture and Partnership Activities

We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures. Our decision to either hold an apartment community in fee simple or have an indirect interest in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations, including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by the seller of land or a community; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projections, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.

Maintaining a Strong Balance Sheet

We maintain a capital structure that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace. We have structured our debt maturity schedule to be able to opportunistically access both secured and unsecured debt markets when appropriate.

Financing Activities

As part of our plan to finance our activities, we utilize proceeds from debt and equity offerings and refinancings to extend maturities, pay down existing debt, fund development and redevelopment activities, and acquire apartment communities.

Consistently Driving Operational Excellence

Investment in new technologies continues to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our business and our residents. Our residents can conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and complete online leasing applications and renewals throughout our portfolio using our web-based resident internet portal or, increasingly, a smart-device application.

As a result of transforming our operations through technology, residents’ satisfaction has improved, and our operating teams have become more efficient. Web-based technologies have also resulted in declining marketing and advertising costs, improved cash management, and better pricing management of our available apartment homes.

Operating Partnership Strategies and Vision

The Operating Partnership’s long-term strategic vision is the same as that of the Company described above.

7 
Competitive Conditions

Competition for new residents is generally intense across our markets. Some competing communities offer amenities that our communities do not have. Competing communities can use rental concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. Also, some competing communities are larger or newer than our communities. The competitive position of each community is different depending upon many factors, including sub-market supply and demand. In addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties, redevelop existing properties, and to develop new properties. These competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment REITs, some of which may have greater resources, or lower capital costs, than we do.

We believe that, in general, we are well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. We believe our competitive advantages include:

●a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise;

●scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing electronic needs of our residents and to effectively focus on our internet marketing efforts;

●access to sources of capital;

●geographic diversification with a presence in 20 markets across the country; and

●significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert.

Moving forward, we will continue to optimize lease management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with metrics that impact our bottom-line performance. We believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio’s strengths in targeting renters across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside.

Communities

At December 31, 2019, our consolidated real estate portfolio included 148 communities with a total of 47,010 completed apartment homes, which included the Operating Partnership’s consolidated real estate portfolio of 52 communities with a total of 16,434 completed apartment homes. The overall quality of our portfolio enables us to raise rents and to attract residents with higher levels of disposable income who are more likely to absorb such rents.

At December 31, 2019, the Company was developing three wholly-owned communities located in Denver, Colorado, Dublin, California, and Addison, Texas, totaling 878 homes, none of which have been completed, with a budget of $278.5 million, in which we have a carrying value of $69.8 million. The communities are estimated to be completed between the first quarter of 2021 and the second quarter of 2022.

At December 31, 2019, the Company was redeveloping 653 apartment homes, 250 of which have been completed, at two wholly-owned communities, located in Boston, Massachusetts and New York, New York, both of which are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2021. The redevelopments include the renovation of building exteriors, corridors, and common area amenities as well as individual apartment homes.

Same-Store Community Comparison

We believe that one pertinent quantitative measurement of the performance of our portfolio is tracking the results of our Same-Store Communities’ NOI, which is total rental revenue, less rental and other operating expenses excluding property management. Our Same-Store Community population is comprised of operating communities which we own and have stabilized occupancy, revenues and expenses as of the beginning of the prior year.

Net income attributable to common stockholders was $180.9 million as compared to $199.2 million in the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by higher gains on the sale of real estate in the prior year and an increase in depreciation expense and interest expense in 2019, partially offset by higher total revenue and gains on the sale of unconsolidated real estate.

8 
For the year ended December 31, 2019, our Same-Store NOI increased by $26.7 million compared to the prior year. Our Same-Store Community properties provided 85.4% of our total NOI for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in NOI for the 37,959 Same-Store apartment homes, or 80.7% of our portfolio, was primarily driven by an increase in rental rates, an increase in reimbursement, ancillary and fee income and a decrease in personnel expense, partially offset by an increase in repair and maintenance expense and real estate taxes.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Operating Partnership’s Same-Store NOI increased by $10.3 million compared to the prior year. The Operating Partnership’s Same-Store Community properties provided 92.9% of its total NOI for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in NOI for the 15,723 Same-Store apartment homes, or 95.7% of the Operating Partnership’s portfolio, was primarily driven by an increase in rental rates, an increase in reimbursement, ancillary and fee income and a decrease in personnel expense, partially offset by an increase in repair and maintenance expense and real estate taxes.

Revenue growth in 2020 may be impacted by adverse developments affecting the general economy, reduced occupancy rates, increased rental concessions, new supply, increased bad debt and other factors which may adversely impact our ability to increase rents.

Tax Matters

UDR has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. To continue to qualify as a REIT, UDR must continue to meet certain tests that, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (other than net capital gains) to our stockholders annually. Provided we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at the corporate level on our net income to the extent such net income is distributed to our stockholders annually. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.

We may utilize our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) to engage in activities that REITs may be prohibited from performing, including the provision of management and other services to third parties and the conduct of certain nonqualifying real estate transactions. Our TRS generally is taxable as a regular corporation, and therefore, subject to federal, state and local income taxes.

The Operating Partnership intends to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership generally is not a taxable entity and does not incur federal income tax liability. However, any state or local revenue, excise or franchise taxes that result from the operating activities of the Operating Partnership are incurred at the entity level.

Inflation

We believe that the direct effects of inflation on our operations have been immaterial. While the impact of inflation primarily impacts our results of operations as a result of wage pressures and increases in utilities and material costs, the majority of our apartment leases have initial terms of 12 months or less, which generally enables us to compensate for any inflationary effects by increasing rents on our apartment homes. Although an extreme escalation in costs could have a negative impact on our residents and their ability to absorb rent increases, we do not believe this has had a material impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2019.

Environmental Matters

Various environmental laws govern certain aspects of the ongoing operation of our communities. Such environmental laws include those regulating the existence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings, management of surfaces with lead-based paint (and notices to residents about the lead-based paint), use of active underground petroleum storage tanks, and waste-management activities. The failure to comply with such requirements could subject us to a government enforcement action and/or claims for damages by a private party.

To date, compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We have a property management plan for hazardous materials. As part of the plan, Phase I environmental site investigations and reports have been completed for each property we acquire. In addition, all proposed acquisitions are inspected prior to acquisition. The inspections are conducted by qualified environmental consultants, and we review the issued report prior to the purchase or development 

9 
of any property. Nevertheless, it is possible that the environmental assessments will not reveal all environmental liabilities, or that some material environmental liabilities exist of which we are unaware. In some cases, we have abandoned otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the costs of removal or control of hazardous materials have been prohibitive or we have been unwilling to accept the potential risks involved. We do not believe we will be required to engage in any large-scale abatement at any of our properties. We believe that through professional environmental inspections and testing for asbestos, lead paint and other hazardous materials, coupled with a relatively conservative posture toward accepting known environmental risk, we can minimize our exposure to potential liability associated with environmental hazards.

Federal legislation requires owners and landlords of residential housing constructed prior to 1978 to disclose to potential residents or purchasers of the communities any known lead paint hazards and imposes treble damages for failure to provide such notification. In addition, lead based paint in any of the communities may result in lead poisoning in children residing in that community if chips or particles of such lead based paint are ingested, and we may be held liable under state laws for any such injuries caused by ingestion of lead based paint by children living at the communities.

We are unaware of any environmental hazards at any of our properties that individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial position. We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and we are not otherwise aware, of any material non-compliance, liability, or claim relating to environmental liabilities in connection with any of our properties. We do not believe that the cost of continued compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on us or our financial condition or results of operations. Future environmental laws, regulations, or ordinances, however, may require additional remediation of existing conditions that are not currently actionable. Also, if more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, the costs of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.

Insurance

We carry comprehensive general liability coverage on our communities, with limits of liability customary within the multi-family apartment industry to insure against liability claims and related defense costs. We are also insured, with limits of liability customary within the multi-family apartment industry, against the risk of direct physical damage in amounts necessary to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period.

Available Information

Both UDR and the Operating Partnership file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission their respective annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC on our website at www.udr.com, or by sending an e-mail message to ir@udr.com.

​

10 
Item 1A.

RISK FACTORS