Item 1.Business

Overview

United Parcel Service, Inc. (“UPS”) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in Seattle, Washington. Today, we are the world’s largest package delivery company, a leader in the U.S. less-than-truckload industry and a premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. The global market for these services includes transportation, distribution, contract logistics, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, customs brokerage, insurance and financing. 

We operate one of the largest airlines in the world, as well as the world’s largest fleet of alternative-powered vehicles. We deliver packages each business day for 1.6 million shipping customers to 9.9 million delivery customers in over 220 countries and territories. In 2019, we delivered an average of 21.9 million pieces per day, or a total of 5.5 billion packages. Total revenue in 2019 was $74.094 billion.

We have three reporting segments: U.S. Domestic Package and International Package, which together we refer to as our global small package operations, and Supply Chain & Freight, all of which are described below. 

Strategy

Our strategy is to provide advanced logistics solutions made possible by a broad portfolio of differentiated services and capabilities integrated into our customers’ businesses. This strategy, supported by our efficient global multimodal network, enables us to deliver value to, and build lasting relationships with, our customers.

Customers are able to leverage our broad portfolio of logistics capabilities comprised of: our extensive presence in North America, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Latin America; our reliability; and our industry-leading technologies and solutions.

1

We offer a full range of industry-leading products, services and capabilities across a growing geographical and industry footprint. Achieving our objectives has required new methods and innovative approaches to develop and implement logistics services that address customer needs for speed to market, visibility, reliability and greater control. Recent examples include:

•the acquisition or creation of platform-based offerings such as UPS e-fulfillment and Ware2Go;

•specialized healthcare solutions such as UPS Premier, which offers prioritized handling and visibility for critical healthcare shipments; 

•a full range of global customs brokerage and shipment insurance services; and

•offerings such as UPS My Choice for business that give small- and medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") greater control, visibility and data access to improve their customer service.

We monitor global trade, economic, geopolitical, regulatory and environmental factors, as well as other factors impacting the business environment. We quickly implement measures to convert risk to opportunity and help our customers adjust their supply chains to a fast-moving world. We have a long history of joint ventures and partnerships that provide operational flexibility and the ability to acquire new capabilities as we build scale, and we also forge new marketplace alliances to stay at the cutting edge of business. For example, our Digital Access Program makes it easier for SMBs to use our services by embedding our shipping solutions directly into leading e-commerce platforms.

We are a disciplined and focused business that purposefully reinvests capital to achieve both long-term strategic benefits and favorable returns. In September 2018, we communicated our commitment to continuous transformation and to invest to modernize our business and operations through state-of-the art technology. We see transformation as an ongoing commitment to enhance quality and efficiency as we deliver innovative capabilities and services. Our strategic investments are primarily focused in areas we believe will drive growth and lasting profit potential:

•services and solutions for SMBs;

•international growth markets;

•global Business to Consumer (“B2C”) and Business to Business (“B2B”) e-commerce;

•healthcare and life-sciences logistics; and

•operational improvements to drive greater productivity and the use of automation to enhance the efficiency of our network.

In recent periods, we have added approximately ten million square feet of highly automated capacity in more than forty new and remodeled facilities globally. We have also continued to implement numerous new technologies to help control the network and ensure resources are in the right place at the right time.

Products and Services; Reporting Segments 

Global Small Package

Our global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. These services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies.

 All types of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) are managed through a single, global integrated pickup and delivery network. We combine all packages within our network, unless dictated by specific service commitments. This enables one UPS driver to pick up customers’ shipments for any services at a scheduled time each day. Our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies that have less of an impact on the environment than single service network designs.

2

We handle packages up to 108 inches in length that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth, as well as palletized shipments weighing more than 150 pounds. We offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages seven days a week. Our global network offers approximately 150,000 entry points where customers can tender a package to us at a location or time convenient to them. This integrated network includes UPS drivers who can accept packages, UPS drop boxes, UPS Access Point locations, The UPS Store locations, authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, alliance locations and customer centers attached to UPS facilities. The UPS Access Point network, which includes local small businesses, national retailers and self-serve lockers, allows consumers to ship or redirect packages to an alternate delivery location or drop off pre-labeled packages, including returns. We have expanded the UPS Access Point network to total approximately 21,000 locations within the U.S. and 40,000 globally. 

We have developed a robust portfolio of returns services in more than 145 countries resulting from the continued growth of online and mobile shopping that has increased our customers’ need for efficient and reliable returns. This portfolio provides a range of cost-effective label options and a broad network of consumer drop points, as well as a selection of returns technologies that promote efficiency and a friction-free consumer experience. These options include solutions such as UPS Returns, as well as more-specialized services such as UPS Returns Exchange. Our technologies, such as UPS Returns Manager promote systems integration, customer ease of use and visibility of inbound merchandise, which help reduce costs and improve efficiency in our customers' reverse logistics processes. 

Our global air operations are centered at our Worldport hub in Louisville, Kentucky. Our U.S. regional air hubs in Dallas, Texas; Ontario, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Rockford, Illinois support Worldport. Our European air hub is located in Cologne, Germany, and we maintain Asia Pacific air hubs in Shanghai, China; Shenzhen, China and Hong Kong. Our regional air hub in Canada is located in Hamilton, Ontario and our regional air hub for Latin America and the Caribbean is in Miami, Florida. This network design creates cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities, which allows us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft.

U.S. Domestic Package Reporting Segment

We are a leader in time-definite, guaranteed small package delivery services in the United States. We offer a full spectrum of U.S. domestic guaranteed air and ground package transportation services, and our U.S. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous United States. 

•UPS's Air portfolio offers options enabling customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g. by 8:00 A.M., 10:30 A.M., noon, end of day, etc.), while selecting from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. 

•Customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed Ground service. We deliver more ground packages in the U.S. than any other carrier, with average daily package volume of 15 million, most within one to three business days.

•We offer UPS SurePost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. UPS SurePost is a residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the UPS ground network with final delivery often provided by the U.S. Postal Service. 

International Package Reporting Segment

Our International Package reporting segment consists of our small package operations in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada, Latin America and the Indian sub-continent, Middle East and Africa ("ISMEA"). We offer a wide selection of guaranteed day- and time-definite international shipping services. We offer more guaranteed time-definite express options (Express Plus, Express and Express Saver) than any other carrier.

In recent years we have continued the expansion of our Express time-definite portfolio, with certain products now reaching as many as 220 countries and territories. For international package shipments that do not require Express services, UPS Worldwide Expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. The service is now available from more than 80 origin countries to more than 220 countries and territories. For cross-border ground package delivery, we offer UPS Standard delivery services within Europe, between the U.S. and Canada and between the U.S. and Mexico.

By expanding our time-definite services, we are better able to offer customers the services they need in the places they do business. For businesses with time-sensitive shipments, these upgrades can help replenish inventories quicker, improve time to market and meet urgent delivery requirements.

Europe, our largest region outside of the U.S., accounts for approximately half of our international small package segment revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth. We continue to make major European infrastructure investments, including new hubs in London, Paris and Eindhoven, the Netherlands.

3

Asia Pacific also remains a strategic market due to growth rates in intra-Asia trade. To capitalize on these opportunities, we have continued to bring faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-Asia trade and reduced transit times from Asia to the U.S. and Europe. Through added flight frequencies, we now provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in the U.S. and Europe - guaranteed - than any other express carrier. We serve more than 40 Asia Pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement our owned operations. For example, our joint venture with SF Express combines SF’s extensive Chinese network with UPS’s delivery capabilities in the U.S. and Europe, increasing our market presence and providing Chinese enterprises with greater global access. In addition, improvements to time-in-transit for UPS Express Saver and UPS Worldwide Expedited services to Shanghai have resulted in faster delivery by a full day to 185 postal codes for packages coming from Europe.

International high-growth markets remain one of our strategic imperatives. Our direct flight from the U.S. to Dubai has improved time-in-transit to key destinations in ISMEA for shippers throughout the U.S., Canada and the Americas. Markets like India also provide opportunities for growth. In support of this, we acquired full ownership of our express services unit in 2018. The unit helps Indian businesses, large and small, connect with global markets via the UPS network. This follows the opening of two integrated logistics facilities in Hyderabad and Ahmedabad from where customers are provided a 48-hour delivery timeline to markets in the U.S. and Europe. In addition to these upgrades, we have added Saturday delivery to seven countries in ISMEA and expanded Express Services to India, the Middle East and other international high-growth markets ahead of Expo 2020 in Dubai, offering greater flexibility and competitiveness.

Supply Chain & Freight

Supply Chain & Freight consists of our forwarding, truckload brokerage, logistics, UPS Freight, UPS Capital and other businesses. Supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with complementary financial and information services. Outsourcing non-core logistics activity is a strategy more companies are pursuing. With increased competition and growth opportunities in new markets, businesses require flexible and responsive supply chains to support their strategies. We meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in more than 200 countries and territories.

Forwarding

We are one of the largest U.S. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. We offer a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. Additionally, as one of the world’s leading non-vessel operating common carriers, we provide ocean freight full-container load, less-than-container load and multimodal transportation services between most major ports around the world.

Truckload Brokerage

Our acquisition of Coyote Logistics, LLC, a U.S.-based third party logistics provider, in 2015 has resulted in synergies in the areas of purchased transportation, backhaul utilization, technology systems and industry best practices. Coyote's access to our fleet, combined with its broad carrier network, has created a customized capacity solution for all markets, customers and situations. In addition, Coyote provides access to UPS services (such as air freight, customs brokerage and global freight forwarding) for its customer base.

Our acquisition of Freightex, a U.K.- based freight brokerage firm, in 2017 added a full scale truckload brokerage and transportation management solution to our European portfolio, creating a single-source solution for shippers throughout Europe with freight ranging from parcel to full truckload. In 2018, Freightex was rebranded as Coyote Logistics to further leverage the centralized technology and business models with the market knowledge, talent and established customer and carrier bases already in Europe. Coyote Logistics's European division complements our North American truckload brokerage business, as many international shippers know and trust the Coyote truckload product.

Logistics

We provide value-added fulfillment and transportation management services to customers through our global network of owned and leased distribution centers and field stocking locations. We leverage a global network of more than 1,000 facilities in more than 100 countries to ensure products and parts are in the right place at the right time.

4

Our distribution centers are strategically located near UPS air and ground transportation hubs for rapid delivery to consumer and business markets. In 2019, we expanded our network to support new business growth by adding 2 million square feet of distribution capacity. We also continued to expand our cloud-based transportation and warehouse management platforms, driving higher operational efficiency and improved customer service. The result has been better visibility, more rapid onboarding of customers and improved flexibility and response times. 

With the strategic focus of serving the unique, priority-handling needs of healthcare and life sciences customers, U.S. healthcare warehouse and distribution space will total approximately 5 million square feet in 2020. Key features in the new facilities include climate controls and validated coolers and freezers for customer products requiring strict temperature-controlled environments.

In 2019, we expanded our e-commerce solutions for SMBs worldwide, offering streamlined fulfillment and shipping services to consumers in the U.S. and Canada. We launched the UPS eFulfillment program to help sellers quickly and easily manage multiple marketplaces. The program, which is compatible with over 20 e-commerce marketplaces, includes a technology platform and physical fulfillment services, such as storage, order processing, packaging and shipping.

UPS Post Sales, our service parts logistics solution, relies on a global network of over 950 central and field stocking sites to provide same and next-day spare parts delivery, enabling customers to get critical equipment back up and running. This solution focuses on customers within the high tech, industrial manufacturing, automotive, healthcare and aerospace sectors. More specific to the healthcare industry, UPS has an implantable medical device solution leveraging 36 field stocking sites, which helps ensure surgical kits and devices arrive safely and on time at hospital and surgery centers. Implantable medical device firms benefit from outsourcing and optimizing their supply chain with UPS, which drives down costs and increases control and service levels.

Also in 2019, UPS announced an expansion of foreign trade zone (“FTZ”) management services in the U.S.. Since our acquisition of Zone Solutions in 2017, we have developed a comprehensive FTZ solution that helps clients manage the end-to-end process, from dealing with customers to inventory control. The integration of FTZ services with our logistics network means UPS can designate any of our 42 U.S. distribution centers as a FTZ, allowing customers to take advantage of the program’s benefits. The strategic utilization of the FTZ program provides opportunities for duty elimination and duty deferral. 

UPS Freight

UPS Freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ("LTL") services in all 50 states, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Mexico. UPS Freight provides reliable LTL service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. UPS Freight also provides dedicated contract carriage truckload services. User friendly shipping, visibility and billing technology offerings, including UPS WorldShip, Quantum View and UPS Billing Center, allow freight customers to create electronic bills of lading, monitor shipment progress and reconcile shipping charges.

Customs Brokerage

We are among the world’s largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. In addition to customs clearance services, we provide product classification, trade management, duty drawback and consulting services through STTAS, a UPS company. 

UPS Capital

UPS Capital provides financial, insurance and payment services to support all aspects of the order-to-cash cycle and help protect companies from risk in their supply chains. Services are available in 22 countries and territories. UPS Capital also offers insured transportation of high value goods including loose gemstones, finished jewelry and wristwatches.

5

 People

The strength of UPS is our people, working together with a common purpose. We have more than 495,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees), of which 413,000 are in the U.S. and 82,000 are located internationally. Our global workforce includes approximately 87,000 management employees (40% of whom are part-time) and 408,000 hourly employees (49% of whom are part-time). 

For information regarding employees employed under collective bargaining agreements, see note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. 

Customers

As described below, we believe that our focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships is a competitive strength of UPS. We serve 1.6 million shipping customers and more than 9.9 million delivery customers daily. For the year ended December 31, 2019, one customer, Amazon.com, Inc. and its affiliates, represented approximately 11.6% of our consolidated revenues, substantially all of which was within our U.S. Domestic Package segment. For additional information on our customers, see “Risk Factors - Changes in our relationships with any of our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have a material adverse effect on us” and note 13 to the audited, consolidated financial statements.

Competition

We offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and compete with many local, regional, national and international logistics providers. We believe our strategy, network and competitive strengths position us well to compete in the marketplace. For additional information on our competitive environment, see "Risk Factors - Our industry is rapidly evolving. We expect to continue to face significant competition, which could adversely affect us".

Competitive Strengths

Our competitive strengths include:

 Efficient Multimodal Network. We believe that our integrated global air and ground network is the most extensive in the industry. We provide all types of package services (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pickup and delivery network. We also have extensive air freight, ocean freight, ground freight and logistics networks that provide additional capabilities in the global transportation and logistics market. Our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization. 

Global Presence. We serve more than 220 countries and territories. We have a significant presence in all of the world’s major economies.

Cutting-Edge Technology. Technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. We are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers enhance their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. We offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate UPS functionality into their own businesses to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, and also to provide their customers with better information services. We provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated UPS tools directly into their own websites.

Broad Portfolio of Services. Our portfolio of services helps customers choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. Increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many UPS services beyond package delivery. For example, our supply chain services – such as freight forwarding, truckload brokerage, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management – help improve the efficiency of the entire supply chain management process.

Customer Relationships. We focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. We serve 1.6 million shipping customers daily and deliver packages to more than 9.9 million delivery customers daily. Cross selling small package and supply chain services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for UPS.

Brand Equity. We have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality, reliability and service innovation. The distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity.

6

Distinctive Culture. We believe that the dedication of our employees comes in large part from our distinctive “employee-owner” concept. Our employee stock ownership tradition dates back to 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, created our first stock ownership program. 

Financial Strength.  Our financial strength allows us to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations and to return value to our shareowners. 

Government Regulation

We are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Key laws and regulations are summarized below.

Air Operations

The U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, through the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”), have regulatory authority over our air transportation services. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for DOT and FAA authority and the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for TSA aviation security authority.

The DOT’s authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as operations, authority, insurance requirements, pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. The DOT also regulates, subject to the authority of the President of the United States, international routes, fares, rates and practices and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of U.S. air carriers abroad. International operating rights for U.S. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments or, in the absence of such agreements, by principles of reciprocity. We are also subject to current and potential aviation regulations imposed by governments in other countries in which we operate, including registration and license requirements and security regulations. We have international route operating rights granted by the DOT and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. The efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on DOT and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions.

The FAA’s authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including certification, aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities and personnel. In 1988, the FAA granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable FAA regulations. In addition, we are subject to non-U.S. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. customs regulation.

UPS's aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under FAA regulations. The future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional FAA regulatory requirements.

The TSA regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the TSA mission statement to “protect the Nation’s transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce.” Our airport and off-airport locations, as well as our personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with TSA regulations.

UPS Airlines, along with a number of other U.S. domestic airlines, participates in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (“CRAF”) program. Our participation in the CRAF program allows the U.S. Department of Defense (“DOD”) to requisition specified UPS Airlines aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. The DOD is required to compensate us for the use of aircraft under the CRAF program. In addition, participation in CRAF entitles us to bid for other U.S. Government opportunities including small package and air freight. 

Ground Operations

Our ground transportation of packages in the U.S. is subject to regulation by the DOT and its agency, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the “FMCSA”). Ground transportation also falls under state jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety and insurance. Our ground transportation of hazardous materials in the U.S. is subject to regulation by the DOT's Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. We also must comply with safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the FMCSA, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service for drivers. We are subject to similar regulation in many non-U.S. jurisdictions.

7

The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created the U.S. Postal Service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the Postal Rate Commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 amended the 1970 Act to give the re-named Postal Regulatory Commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the Postal Service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. We sometimes participate in proceedings before the Postal Regulatory Commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services.

Our ground operations are also subject to compliance with various cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, including regulation by the TSA.

Customs

We are subject to the customs laws regarding the import and export of shipments in the countries in which we operate, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. Our activities in the U.S., including customs brokerage and freight forwarding, are subject to regulation by the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, the TSA, the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission and the DOT. Our international operations are subject to similar regulatory structures in their respective jurisdictions. 

Environmental

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. These laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: properly storing, handling and disposing of waste materials; appropriately managing waste water and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. We have established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. In addition, we have created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations.

Pursuant to the Federal Aviation Act, the FAA, with the assistance of the Environmental Protection Agency is authorized to establish standards governing aircraft noise. Our aircraft fleet is in compliance with current noise standards of the federal aviation regulations. Our international operations are also subject to noise regulations in certain countries in which we operate. 

Communications and Data Protection

Because of our extensive use of radio and other communication facilities in our aircraft and ground transportation operations, we are subject to the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended. In addition, the Federal Communications Commission regulates and licenses our activities pertaining to satellite communications. There has recently been increased regulatory and enforcement focus on data protection in the U.S. (at both the state and federal level) and in other countries. For example, the European Union (“E.U.”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which became effective in May 2018, greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of E.U. law and increases the requirements related to personal data, including individual notice and opt-out preferences and public disclosure of significant data breaches. Additionally, violations of the GDPR can result in significant fines. Other governments have enacted or are enacting similar data protection laws, and are considering data localization laws that would govern the use of data outside of their respective jurisdictions.

Where You Can Find More Information

We maintain a website at www.ups.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge through our investor relations website at www.investors.ups.com under the heading "Financials - SEC Filings" as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the SEC. We have a written Code of Business Conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive and financial officers. It is available under the heading "ESG"- Governance Documents" on our investor relations website. In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the Code of Business Conduct that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver in that section of our investor relations website.

8

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Executive Committee, Risk Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are also available under the heading "ESG- Governance Documents" on our investor relations website.

Our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com. 

We provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for information. We do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this or any other report we file with the SEC.

9

Item 1A.Risk Factors