ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

GAAP to NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS

This Form 10-K presents non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, to provide investors with additional information. The adjustments to reconcile from the applicable GAAP financial measures to the non-GAAP financial measures are presented in the following schedules. The Bank considers these adjustments to be relevant to ongoing operating results and provide a meaningful base for period-to-period and company-to-company comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by management to assess the performance and financial position of the Bank and for presentations of Bank performance to investors. The Bank further believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Bank on the same basis as applied by management.

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations and are not required to be uniformly applied by individual entities. Although non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders to evaluate a company, they have limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of results reported under GAAP. The following are the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this Form 10-K and a discussion of the reasons for which management and investors use these non-GAAP measures.

Return on Average Tangible Common Equity (“ROTCE”) – this schedule also includes “net earnings applicable to common shareholders, excluding the effects of the adjustments, net of tax” and “average tangible common equity.” ROTCE is a non-GAAP financial measure that management believes provides useful information to management and others about the Bank’s use of shareholders’ equity. Management believes the use of ratios that utilize tangible equity provides additional useful information about performance because they present measures of those assets that can generate income.

Schedule 1 

RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY (NON-GAAP)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Tangible Equity Ratio, Tangible Common Equity Ratio, and Tangible Book Value per Common Share – this schedule also includes “tangible equity,” “tangible common equity,” and “tangible assets.” Tangible equity ratio, tangible common equity ratio and tangible book value per common share are non-GAAP financial measures that management believes provide additional useful information about the levels of tangible assets and tangible equity in relation to outstanding shares of common stock. Management believes the use of ratios that utilize tangible equity provides additional useful information to management and others about capital adequacy because they present measures of those assets that can generate income.

27
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 2

TANGIBLE EQUITY RATIO, TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY RATIO, AND TANGIBLE BOOK VALUE PER COMMON SHARE (ALL NON-GAAP MEASURES)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Efficiency Ratio and Adjusted Pre-provision Net Revenue – this schedule also includes “adjusted noninterest expense,” “taxable-equivalent net interest income,” “adjusted taxable-equivalent revenue,” “pre-provision net revenue (“PPNR”), and “adjusted PPNR.” The methodology of determining the efficiency ratio may differ among companies. Management makes adjustments to exclude certain items as identified in the subsequent schedule which it believes allows for more consistent comparability among periods. Management believes the efficiency ratio provides useful information regarding the cost of generating revenue. Adjusted noninterest expense provides a measure as to how well the Bank is managing its expenses, and adjusted PPNR enables management and others to assess the Bank’s ability to generate capital to cover credit losses through a credit cycle. Taxable-equivalent net interest income allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources.

28
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 3

EFFICIENCY RATIO (NON-GAAP) AND ADJUSTED PRE-PROVISION NET REVENUE (NON-GAAP)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Bank Overview

Zions Bancorporation, National Association and its subsidiaries (collectively “Zions Bancorporation, N.A.,” “the Bank,” “we,” “our,” “us”) together comprise a bank headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah with assets of $69 billion, net revenue (net interest income and noninterest income) exceeding $2.5 billion. We operate as a collection of great community banks that emphasizes local authority and responsibility for results. We are focused on the communities in our footprint and banking businesses and their owners and executives in those communities, where relationships are particularly important. Our experienced bankers develop long-lasting relationships with our customers by providing valuable advice and award-winning service; such relationships are further enhanced by digital products our customers desire. Building such relationships is essential to maintaining our deposit franchise, which currently provides us with one of the lowest costs of deposits in the industry, and to maintaining an overall high customer satisfaction relative to peers. We are a consistent national and state-wide leader of customer survey awards in small and middle-market banking, as well as a national leader in SBA lending and public finance advisory services. 

While we serve several important customer segments in our markets, our strategy is especially focused on four key areas: Small Business, Commercial, Affluent, and Capital Markets. Small Business and Commercial are segments where our local operating model is very impactful and valued by our customers, and we continue to invest in the capabilities that differentiate us from our competitors. We are making strategic investments in Affluent and Capital Markets to deepen our relationships with our core customers, while also improving noninterest income contribution. 

To enable the execution of our strategy, we are investing in five key areas: 

•Our employees and building their capabilities

•Technologies that customers value most and that will make us efficient

•Simplifying how we do business at all levels of the company

29
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

•Maintaining effective risk management practices to ensure judicious risk taking

•Advanced enterprise data and analytics to support local execution

Our strategic objectives include:

•Achieving revenue growth that is competitive with the industry without incurring excessive risk while maintaining a cost structure that results in an efficiency ratio that is competitive with our peers. This includes improving our profitability ratios relative to peers and over the long term driving superior PPNR growth.

◦We are focused on revenue initiatives, including simplifying underwriting processes, simplified and fast account opening, and superior digital product delivery to enable faster and safe small business customer growth. We are developing our capabilities in capital markets, wealth management, mortgage and retail banking to increase noninterest income.

◦We are committed to expense control and are simplifying our operations in a continual and systematic way. As operations are simplified, many such processes can be automated and as such we are investing significantly in technology that is expected to reduce delivery costs over time.

•Competing effectively against the largest banks with a combination of technology and service. 

◦We have developed, and continue to develop, our digital delivery capabilities. 

◦We are consolidating our multiple core operating systems onto a single operating system for commercial loans, certain retail loans, and all deposits, referred to as our “Core Transformation Project.” We believe this will give us an advantage over other large regional banks by allowing us to more quickly adopt emerging digital products. 

◦We continue to invest in high-impact areas to maintain customer satisfaction results that are superior to peers. We are embarking on an initiative to provide even greater levels of service by increasing our investment in our business bankers and branch staff. This investment is expected to result in a key differentiator between our bank and other large banks, especially for small business customers who report that two of the top three key factors in determining the bank they use are (1) the convenience of the location of the branch and (2) access to an account officer.

•We believe that our long-term success depends upon the success of the local communities we serve. We strive to make significant, long-term, business and philanthropic investments that will benefit our communities. 

•We strive to maintain a strong risk management profile to be a positive outlier (i.e., superior performance relative to peers) in the event of an economic downturn. 

30
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Executive Summary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decline in net earnings applicable to common shareholders from 2018 to 2019 was primarily due to a negative provision for 2018 that did not recur in 2019, and an increase in noninterest expense.

Although earnings for 2019 were lower when compared with 2018, diluted EPS increased as a result of the Bank repurchasing $1.1 billion, or 23.5 million shares, which was 12.5% of outstanding shares as of December 31, 2018.The increase in adjusted PPNR was primarily the result of increased interest income due to loan growth and limiting growth of noninterest expense.We continue to strive for improvements to our efficiency ratio.

In addition to the metrics shown above, the Bank’s net interest margin (“NIM”) decreased 7 basis points (“bps”) for the full year of 2019 versus 2018, which was largely attributable to the low interest rate environment (see “Interest-Earning Assets, Interest-Bearing Liabilities and Net Interest Margin” for more information on the NIM). 

Asset quality remained relatively stable in 2019. Total criticized and classified loans increased $217 million, or 19%, and $105 million, or 15%, respectively, from historically low levels in 2018, while nonaccrual loans decreased $9 million, or 4%, during this same period. Net loan and lease charge-offs, expressed as a percentage of average loans held for investment, was 0.08% in 2019, compared with net recoveries of 0.04% in 2018.

Specifically, the financial performance of 2019 relative to 2018 reflects:

•Moderate net interest income growth resulting from loan growth; 

•A reduction in the overnight federal funds rate by 75 bps, which resulted in net interest margin compression;

•Modest noninterest income growth due to continued focus on this source of revenue; we experienced notable successes such as generating strong growth in capital markets and foreign exchange fees related to arranging interest rate hedges for our loan customers, loan syndication arrangement fees, and foreign exchange fees. Wealth management and trust fees increased as a result of increased corporate and personal trust revenue;

•Excluding the severance and restructuring charges of $37 million in the fourth quarter of 2019, a slight increase in noninterest expense while we remain focused on expense controls and continue to invest in technology and simplification initiatives. We delivered on our commitment to limit adjusted noninterest expense growth in 2019 to only a slight increase relative to our 2018 results. Adjusted noninterest expense increased $32 million, or 2%, to $1.7 billion in 2019; 

•An increase in the provision for credit losses to $39 million in 2019 from $(40) million in 2018. The 2019 provision increased due to loan growth, stabilizing credit quality, and increased net charge-offs (mainly due to a few larger isolated charge-offs). During 2018, strong improvements in credit quality and net recoveries resulted in a negative provision;

31
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

•Average deposit growth of $1.9 billion, or 4%, was very strong during the second half of 2019, which accounted for over 90% of the annual growth.

Although net earnings applicable to common shareholders decreased by 8% over the prior year, earnings per diluted share increased by 2% due to the repurchase of $1.1 billion, or 23.5 million shares, of Bank common stock during 2019.

Areas Experiencing Challenges in 2019 

While 2017 and 2018 experienced increases in short-term interest rates, 2019 experienced a declining interest rate environment. The relatively flat yield curve and low interest rate environment put pressure on our NIM. For the last several years we have been focused on achieving positive operating leverage and improving our profitability; however, in a period of falling interest rates, our ability to achieve these objectives becomes more difficult.

Although loan growth was generally consistent with the targeted levels we had established for 2019, we continued to experience a high level of competition during the year. Some of this competition came from nonbank financial institutions such as debt funds, debt capital markets, and covenant-light structures. 

Average loan growth of $2.8 billion, or 6%, exceeded average deposit growth of $1.9 billion, or 4%. Consequently, on an average basis throughout 2019, we relied more on wholesale funding to finance incremental balance sheet growth, increasing our funding cost. 

Noninterest income from customer-related fees increased 3% in 2019, compared with 2018. While we experienced strength in capital markets and foreign exchange fees and wealth management and trust fees, our other customer-related fees declined or were relatively flat.

Focus for 2020

In 2020, we are focused on the ongoing initiatives related to Bank profitability and returns on- and of-equity. Major areas of emphasis include the following:

•Manage our interest rate risk profile to move toward a more neutral interest-rate sensitive position and to protect net income against further declines in interest rates;

•Achieve broad-based loan growth (i.e., a low- to mid-single digit growth rate) within acceptable concentration limits;

•Achieve similar, or improve upon, growth rates in noninterest income, emphasizing customer-related fee income;

•Maintain adjusted noninterest expense at 2019 levels or lower while continuing to invest in enabling technologies, which will help ensure long-term success in an increasingly competitive marketplace;

•Manage noninterest expense growth linked to revenue growth, profitability and digital delivery strategies.

•Implement technology upgrades and digital strategies to enhance automation and simplification of front, middle and back office processes; and

•Maintain top quartile credit risk profile and superior risk management posture leading to increasing returns of capital.

32
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 4

KEY DRIVERS OF PERFORMANCE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Includes loans held for sale.

Net Interest Income 

Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities and is more than three-quarters of our revenue. Net interest income is derived from both the volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and their respective yields/rates.

Net interest income was $2.3 billion during 2019, an improvement of $42 million, or 2%, compared with $2.2 billion during 2018. For both 2019 and 2018, taxable-equivalent net interest income was $2.3 billion, compared with $2.1 billion in 2017. The tax rate used for calculating all taxable-equivalent adjustments was 21% for both 2019 and 2018, and 35% for 2017. The slight increase in net interest income is due to loan growth, noninterest-bearing deposit stability and disciplined deposit pricing, partially offset by decreases in benchmark interest rates. We are not assuming any further changes in benchmark rates in our forecasts. However, because of lower overnight benchmark federal funds rates, which decreased several times during 2019, partially offset by loan growth and the benefit of our noninterest-bearing deposits, we expect net interest income to decrease at a moderate pace in 2020 when compared with 2019, if current conditions persist.

Schedule 5

INTEREST-EARNING ASSETS, INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES AND NET INTEREST MARGIN

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The NIM was 3.54% and 3.61% for 2019 and 2018, respectively. When comparing 2019 with 2018, higher interest rates and a greater concentration of loans in the earning asset mix led to an increase in earning asset yield, which was more than offset by an increase in deposit rates and a modestly greater reliance on higher-cost borrowed funds. 

33
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Funding loan growth with wholesale borrowings negatively impacted the NIM relative to deposit funding, although it was accretive to net interest income. 

Noninterest-bearing demand deposit accounts are a significant benefit to NIM. The net impact of noninterest-bearing sources of funds on the NIM increased to 0.46% in 2019, compared with 0.33% in 2018. 

Average interest-earning assets increased $2.5 billion from 2018, with average rates improving 16 bps. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased $3.2 billion while average rates increased 36 bps over the same period.

Our average lending portfolio increased $2.8 billion to $48.3 billion, an increase of 6%. The average balance of our investment securities portfolio decreased $0.4 billion, while the year-end balance decreased $1.1 billion. The loan growth was funded through a mix of deposits, securities run-off and wholesale borrowings. 

Interest expense increased $160 million, compared with 2018 results, attributable to both an increase in the cost and quantity of deposits and wholesale funding. Interest expense on deposits increased $119 million on $31.7 billion of average interest-bearing deposits.

Average loans increased $2.8 billion due to widespread growth in essentially all loans categories, with average commercial loans accounting for over half of the growth. Yields on average balances increased by 7 bps, 16 bps, and 18 bps in the commercial, CRE and consumer portfolios, respectively. The commercial loan growth was in municipal, commercial and industrial, and owner-occupied loans, where our yields are generally lower than commercial real estate ("CRE"), but higher than consumer. The federal funds target rate decreased three times in 2019 after increasing four times in 2018. A portion of our variable-rate loans were not affected by these changes primarily due to longer reset frequency, or because a substantial portion of our variable-rate interest-earning assets are tied to longer-term rate indices, which rates were impacted by a relatively flat yield curve for much of 2018 and 2019. Also, our earning assets generally reprice more quickly than our funding sources. We expect moderate loan growth during 2020, which may not be as strong as we experienced in 2019.

34
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Average noninterest-bearing demand deposits provided us with low-cost funding and comprised 42% of average total deposits, which totaled $55.1 billion in 2019, compared with 45% of average total deposits, which totaled $53.2 billion, for 2018. Average interest-bearing deposits increased 8% in 2019, compared with 2018. During 2019 the Federal Reserve decreased the overnight benchmark federal funds rate by 75 bps, while the rate paid on the Bank’s interest-bearing deposits increased 34 bps.

We are actively monitoring and managing deposits, and have been reducing deposit rates since mid-2019, as benchmark federal funds interest rates have decreased. Our cost of total deposits during 2019 increased 21 bps relative to 2018, and we expect the cost of deposits to decline in 2020 due to ongoing efforts to better align deposit costs with lower market rates, assuming no further benchmark interest rate increases.

Although we consider a wide variety of sources when determining our funding needs, we benefit from access to deposits from a significant number of small to mid-sized business customers, which provide us with a low cost of funds and have a positive impact on our NIM. Including wholesale borrowings, the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities increased 36 bps. 

The average balance of long-term debt increased $701 million compared with 2018, while the average rate decreased 152 bps. During 2019 the Bank issued $500 million of senior notes with an interest rate of 3.35% and $500 million of subordinated notes with an interest rate of 3.25%. Overall interest expense on long-term debt increased $18 million. The Bank has used short-term Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) borrowings to fund some of its balance sheet growth during the past couple of years. Average short-term debt grew $0.2 billion and the rate paid increased 43 bps. Further changes in short-term borrowings will be primarily driven by loan growth, deposit growth and the level of long term debt as we do not expect significant decreases in investment security balances.

The spread on average interest-bearing funds was 3.08% in 2019 and 3.28% in 2018, respectively. The spread on average interest-bearing funds for these periods was affected by the same factors that had an impact on the NIM. Interest rate spreads and margin are impacted by the mix of assets we hold, the composition of our loan and securities portfolios and the type of funding used. 

Our estimates of the Bank’s interest rate risk position are highly dependent upon a number of assumptions regarding the repricing behavior of various deposit and loan types in response to changes in both short-term and long-term interest rates, balance sheet composition, and other modeling assumptions, as well as the actions of competitors and customers in response to those changes. Further detail on interest rate risk is discussed in “Interest Rate and Market 

35
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Risk Management” on page 64. Refer to the “Liquidity Risk Management” section beginning on page 69 for more information on how we manage liquidity risk.

Schedule 6

Net Interest Margin and Interest Rate Spreads in 2018 vs. 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The NIM was 3.61% and 3.45% for 2018 and 2017, respectively. When comparing 2018 with 2017, changes in asset mix resulted in higher average loans, lower average securities and money market investments, and higher average interest-bearing deposits and wholesale borrowings balances to fund overall balance sheet growth. The expansion of NIM reflected a higher loan yield with only a moderate increase in funding costs. Average interest-earning assets increased $1.6 billion from 2017, with average rates improving 36 bps. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased $1.5 billion and average rates increased 35 bps over the same period.

Our average lending portfolio increased $1.9 billion to $45.4 billion, an increase of 4%. The average balance of our investment securities portfolio decreased $0.1 billion, while year-end balances decreased $0.5 billion. The net earning asset growth was funded through a mix of deposits and wholesale borrowings.

Interest expense increased $124 million compared to 2017 results, mainly due to both an increase in the cost and quantity of deposits and wholesale funding. Interest expense on deposits increased $76 million on $29.4 billion of average interest-bearing deposits.

The increase in the average loan portfolio was due to growth in 1-4 family residential, commercial and industrial, and municipal lending. Yields on average balances increased by 43 bps, 45 bps, and 20 bps in the commercial, CRE 

36
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

and consumer portfolios, respectively. Much of the consumer growth was in consumer 1-4 family residential, where our yields are generally lower than on commercial loans. 

Average noninterest-bearing demand deposits comprised 45% of average total deposits, which totaled $53.2 billion in 2018, compared with 46% of average total deposits, which totaled $52.2 billion, for 2017. Average interest-bearing deposits increased 3% in 2018, compared with 2017. During 2018 the Federal Reserve increased the overnight benchmark federal funds rate by 100 bps, while the rate paid on the Bank’s interest-bearing deposits increased 25 bps, implying a deposit beta of 25%. Including wholesale borrowings, the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities increased 35 bps. 

The average balance of long-term debt increased $118 million compared with 2017, while the average rate decreased 58 bps. During 2018, the Bank issued $500 million of senior notes with an interest rate of 3.5%. Overall interest expense on long-term debt increased $4 million. Average short-term debt grew $466 million and the rate paid increased 88 bps.

The spread on average interest-bearing funds was 3.28% in 2018 and 3.27% in 2017, respectively. The spread on average interest-bearing funds for these periods was affected by the same factors that had an impact on the NIM. Refer to the “Liquidity Risk Management” section beginning on page 69 for more information on how we manage liquidity risk.

37
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 7

AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS, YIELDS AND RATES 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable. See “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations” on page 27 for more information regarding taxable-equivalent net interest income.

2 Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include nonaccrual and restructured loans.

38
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 8 analyzes the year-to-year changes in net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis for the years indicated. For purposes of calculating the yields in these schedules, the average loan balances also include the principal amounts of nonaccrual and restructured loans. However, interest received on nonaccrual loans is included in income only to the extent that cash payments have been received and not applied to principal reductions. In addition, interest on restructured loans is generally accrued at reduced rates.

Schedule 8 

ANALYSIS OF INTEREST CHANGES DUE TO VOLUME AND RATE 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable.

2 Net of unearned income and fees, net of related costs. Loans include nonaccrual and restructured loans.

In the analysis of interest changes due to volume and rate, changes due to the volume/rate variance are allocated to volume with the following exceptions: when volume and rate both increase, the variance is allocated proportionately to both volume and rate; when the rate increases and volume decreases, the variance is allocated to rate.

40
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Provision for Credit Losses

Schedule 9

TOTAL ALLOWANCE AND PROVISION FOR CREDIT LOSSES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The allowance for credit losses ("ACL") is the combination of both the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments ("RULC"). The ALLL represents the estimated probable losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The RULC represents the estimated reserve for potential losses associated with off-balance sheet commitments. Changes in the ALLL and RULC, including changes in net charge-offs, are recorded in the provision for loan and lease losses and the provision for unfunded lending commitments in the income statement, respectively.

The ACL increased $2 million to $554 million at December 31, 2019, compared with $552 million at December 31, 2018. The slight increase in the ACL from the prior year period is primarily due to loan growth, partially offset by recent default and loss rates that are lower than long-term averages.

The provision for credit losses, which is the combination of both the provision for loan losses and the provision for unfunded lending commitments, was $39 million in 2019, compared with $(40) million in 2018. The provision for unfunded lending commitments may be subject to sizable fluctuations due to changes in the timing and volume of loan commitments, originations, fundings and changes in credit quality.

See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Credit Risk Management” on page 54 for more information on how we determine the appropriate level for the ALLL and the RULC.

On January 1, 2020, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-13, Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, and its subsequent updates, often referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss ("CECL") model. Upon adoption of the ASU, Zions recorded the full amount of the ACL for loans and leases of $526 million, compared with $554 million at December 31, 2019, resulting in an after-tax increase to retained earnings of $20 million. The impact of the adoption of CECL for our securities portfolio was less than $1 million. As a result of this new accounting standard, we expect our allowance for credit losses will become more volatile primarily because, under the new process, the allowance is subject to economic forecasts that may change materially from period to period. For more information see "Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates" on page 75.

Noninterest Income

Noninterest income represents revenues we earn for products and services that have no associated interest rate or yield. Growing noninterest income is a key strategic priority, and several strategic initiatives are underway to support this effort. Specifically, we are working to leverage our focus on commercial and small business customers to accelerate sales of capital markets products and wealth advisory services. Noninterest income accounted for 20% of net revenue during both 2019 and 2018. For 2019, noninterest income was $562 million, compared with $552 million in 2018 and $544 million in 2017. During 2019, we experienced strong growth in capital markets and 

41
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

foreign exchange fees driven by income from customer interest rate swap activity, loan syndication arrangement fees and foreign exchange fees, followed by growth in our wealth management and trust fees, while experiencing declines in commercial account fees.

We believe a subtotal of customer-related fees provides a better view of income over which we have more direct near-term control. It excludes items such as dividends, insurance-related income, mark-to-market adjustments on certain derivatives, and securities gains and losses.

Schedule 10 presents a comparison of the major components of noninterest income for the past three years.

Schedule 10 

NONINTEREST INCOME 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Customer-related fees increased by $17 million, or 3%, from 2018 to 2019. Capital markets and foreign exchange fees increased by $20 million as a result of an $11 million increase in income from arranging interest rate hedges for our loan customers, a $4 million increase in loan syndication arrangement fees and a $3 million increase in foreign exchange fees. Wealth management and trust fees increased by $5 million, or 9%, as a result of increased corporate and personal trust revenue. Other customer-related fees decreased by $6 million, or 22%, primarily as a result of the sale of a minor business in the first quarter of 2019.

Dividends and other income decreased by $9 million primarily due to valuation adjustments on client-related interest rate swaps during 2019. As a result of the decline in interest rates during 2019 and increased client activity during the year, these client-related interest rate swaps significantly increased in value, resulting in the Bank having a larger exposure to the clients and a $9 million valuation adjustment in 2019, compared with a valuation adjustment of $1 million in 2018. Dividends and other income also decreased during 2019 due to a $3 million gain on venture capital investments in 2018 that did not recur in 2019 and a $3 million decrease in dividends from the Federal Reserve resulting from a decline in our Federal Reserve stock held and a decline in the 10-year Treasury, partially offset by a $3 million increase in other miscellaneous income.

Noninterest Expense

Noninterest expense increased by $63 million, or 4%, from 2018 to 2019. Adjusted noninterest expense increased by $32 million, or 2%, over the same period. This 2% increase is within our previously communicated growth rate of low single-digit percentage range relative to the prior year. See “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations” on page 27 for more information regarding the calculation of adjusted noninterest expense.

We have developed a culture that continually seeks to streamline and make more simple and efficient processes required to operate the Bank. As part of our focus on noninterest expenses, in October 2019, we announced a 5% workforce reduction that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2019. We also announced the closure of multiple branches beginning in the fourth quarter of 2019, including 12 branches scheduled to close during 2020. As a result of this reduction in staffing, we recognized $22 million of severance and $15 million of other restructuring-related costs 

42
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

primarily related to centralizing our office space in Utah and the closure of certain branches across our footprint. In 2018 we successfully completed the merger of the holding company with, and into, the bank subsidiary. The consolidation of the holding company into the bank reduced duplicative regulatory examinations and certain regulatory requirements. We remain focused on expense control efforts, while continuing to invest in technology initiatives. 

Schedule 11 presents a comparison of the major components of noninterest expense for the past three years.

Schedule 11 

NONINTEREST EXPENSE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Schedule 12 

SALARIES AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Salaries and employee benefits increased by $71 million, or 7%, in 2019, compared with 2018. Salaries and employee benefits increased due to a $33 million increase in base salaries resulting from salary merit increases, a $22 million increase in severance expenses primarily from the previously announced reduction in staffing levels, a $6 million increase in employee medical costs, and a $4 million increase in retirement expenses. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million decrease in incentive compensation.

Salaries and employee benefits increased by $64 million, or 6%, in 2018, compared with 2017. Salaries and employee benefits increased in 2018 primarily due to a $29 million increase in base salaries resulting from salary increases related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, merit increases and increased headcount, and a $19 million increase in incentive compensation, of which $7 million relates to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The remaining $16 million increase was primarily a result of an $8 million increase in the Bank’s medical plans and a $7 million increase in the Bank’s contribution to the employee 401(k) plan, as a result of improved financial performance.

Furniture and equipment expense increased $9 million, or 7%, in 2019, primarily from increased amortization expense related to capitalized technology costs from the successful implementation of our commercial and 

43
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

consumer loan systems. Furniture and equipment expense decreased by $4 million in 2018, primarily due to decreased software maintenance expense, partially offset by increased amortization of capitalized software.

Professional and legal services decreased $5 million from 2018 to $47 million in 2019. The decrease was primarily a result of lower consulting fees related to our simplification and technology initiatives. The $5 million decrease in 2018 from 2017 was for the same reason.

Advertising expense decreased by $7 million to $19 million for 2019. This decrease was mainly due to lower sponsorships. Advertising expense in 2018 was $4 million higher compared with 2017, primarily due to increased media expense.

FDIC premiums were $25 million in 2019, compared with $50 million in 2018. This decrease was primarily due to the elimination of the FDIC surcharge for large banks because the required Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio had been met and the Bank issuing unsecured debt which results in lower FDIC premiums. 

Other noninterest expense increased $28 million to $225 million in 2019, compared with $197 million in 2018. This increase was due to a $13 million impairment related to centralizing our office space in Utah and the closure of certain branches across our footprint, and $10 million of customer reimbursements made by the Bank to remedy a self-identified operational issue. Other noninterest expense decreased $34 million from 2017 to 2018 as a result of a one-time $12 million charitable contribution made at the end of 2017 and a decrease in employee and operational expenses resulting from the Bank’s simplification and efficiencies initiatives.

In October 2018, we announced the termination of the defined benefit pension plan subject to obtaining necessary regulatory approval. Completion of this termination is expected in 2020. Plan participant benefits will choose to receive an annuity or a lump-sum payment. The elimination of the plan is expected to result in a onetime charge of approximately $10 million to $15 million, likely toward the middle of 2020, in addition to the reclassification of an approximate $17 million loss out of AOCI into earnings. The current estimate of this expense is subject to change depending upon a number of factors including plan performance, participant elections between lump-sum distribution options and an annuity option, and market competitiveness in the annuity bid process.

Branch closing costs and other efficiency-related cost accelerations will be recognized in the next several quarters. Excluding the severance, branch closing, and other efficiency-related cost acceleration expenses, adjusted noninterest expense for 2019 experienced a 2% increase relative to the prior year. We expect 2020 expenses to be the same as, or slightly reduced from, 2019 results, excluding the expected pension termination expense, severance and other restructuring expenses.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense was $237 million in 2019, $259 million in 2018, and $344 million in 2017. Our effective income tax rates were 22.5% in 2019, 22.7% in 2018, and 36.8% in 2017. The income tax rates for all tax years were reduced by nontaxable municipal interest income and nontaxable income from certain bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI"). The income tax rates for 2019 and 2018 were positively impacted by the decrease in the corporate federal income tax rate to 21% from 35% due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was effective January 1, 2018. This rate benefit was partially reduced by the nondeductibility of FDIC premiums, certain executive compensation and other fringe benefits as enacted by the new tax law.

The tax rate for 2017 was impacted by a one-time $18 million benefit to tax expense related to the reevaluation of state tax positions, an excess tax benefit of $9 million from the implementation of a new accounting guidance related to share-based compensation, and a net DTA write-off of $47 million through income tax expense associated with the decrease in the federal income tax rate from the passage of new legislation.

The Bank continued to invest in technology initiatives, low-income housing and municipal securities during 2019, 2018 and 2017, generating tax credits and nontaxable income that benefited the tax rate each year.

44
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

We had a net DTA balance of $37 million at December 31, 2019 compared with $130 million at December 31, 2018. The decrease in the net DTA resulted primarily from the decrease in unrealized losses in OCI related to securities, an increase in deferred loan fees and accelerated tax deductions on certain technology initiatives and depreciable property during 2019. We did not record any valuation allowance for GAAP purposes as of December 31, 2019. Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements discloses information about the Bank’s evaluation of its DTA, including any potential additional valuation allowances.

Preferred Stock Dividends and Redemption

Preferred stock dividends were $34 million during both 2019 and 2018, which was a $6 million decrease from $40 million in 2017. Preferred stock dividends decreased beginning in 2018 as a result of the completion of a tender offer on our $144 million of Series F preferred stock during 2017. Preferred dividends are expected to continue at $34 million for 2020. See further details in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS

We manage our operations and prepare management reports and other information with a primary focus on geographical area. Our banking operations are managed under their own individual brand names, including Zions Bank, Amegy Bank ("Amegy"), California Bank & Trust (“CB&T”), National Bank of Arizona (“NBAZ”), Nevada State Bank (“NSB”), Vectra Bank Colorado (“Vectra”), and The Commerce Bank of Washington (“TCBW”). Performance assessment and resource allocation are based upon this geographical structure. Most of the lending and other decisions affecting customers are made at the local level. The accounting policies of the individual segments are the same as those of the Bank. We allocate the cost of centrally provided services to the business segments based upon estimated or actual usage of those services. We also use an internal Funds Transfer Pricing (“FTP”) allocation system to report results of operations for business segments. This process is continually refined. The operating segment identified as “Other” includes certain nonbank financial service subsidiaries, centralized back-office functions, and eliminations of transactions between segments. See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Other segment, and more performance information including net interest income, noninterest income, and noninterest expense by segment..

During 2019, our banking operations experienced improved financial performance when compared with 2018. Common areas of financial performance experienced at various levels of the segments include:

• Increased loan balances across all geographies;

•Continued strong or improvements in credit quality; and

•Growth in customer deposit balances across almost all segments.

45
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 13 shows selected financial information for our business segments. Ratios are calculated based on amounts in thousands.

Schedule 13 

SELECTED SEGMENT INFORMATION

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Zions Bank 

Zions Bank is headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah, and is primarily responsible for conducting operations in Utah, Idaho, and Wyoming. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the largest full-service commercial bank in Utah and the 4th largest in Idaho, as measured by domestic deposits in these states. 

Zions Bank’s income before income taxes increased by $11 million, or 3%, during 2019. Net interest income increased by $30 million, which was partially offset by a $10 million increase in the provision for credit losses and a $9 million increase in noninterest expense. The loan portfolio increased by $178 million during 2019, which consisted of increases of $72 million and $115 million in commercial and CRE loans, respectively, and a decrease of $9 million in consumer loans. The ratio of allowance for loan losses to net loans and leases increased slightly to 1.10% at December 31, 2019 from 1.08% at December 31, 2018. Nonperforming lending-related assets increased $18 million, or 26%, from the prior year. Deposits increased by 7% from 2018 to 2019.

Amegy Bank

Amegy Bank is headquartered in Houston, Texas. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 8th largest full-service commercial bank in Texas as measured by domestic deposits in the state. 

Amegy’s income before income taxes decreased by $71 million, or 20%, during 2019. The decrease in income before income taxes is mainly due to a $89 million increase in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by increases of $6 million and $8 million in net interest income and noninterest income, respectively. The credit quality of Amegy’s loan portfolio improved during 2018, mainly due to improvements in the oil and gas-related portfolio, which led to $80 million negative provision for credit losses in 2018. Credit quality remained strong in 2019. The ratio of the ALLL to net loans and leases decreased to 1.49% at December 31, 2019 from 1.66% a year earlier. During 2019, nonperforming lending-related assets decreased $19 million, or 24%. Amegy has been able to achieve strong loan portfolio growth, resulting in a $770 million increase from the prior year. During 2019, commercial, consumer, and CRE loans increased by $474 million, $235 million and $61 million, respectively. Deposits increased by 2% from 2018 to 2019.

California Bank & Trust

California Bank & Trust is headquartered in San Diego, California. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 16th largest full-service commercial bank in California as measured by domestic deposits. Its core business is built on relationship banking by providing commercial, real estate and consumer lending, depository services, international banking, cash management, and community development services.

CB&T’s income before income taxes increased by $15 million, or 6%, during 2019 primarily from an increase in net interest income due to loan growth. CB&T’s loan portfolio increased by $310 million in 2019 from the prior year. During 2019, commercial, CRE and consumer loans increased by $156 million, $93 million and $61 million, respectively. The credit quality of CB&T’s loan portfolio continues to be strong, as the ratio of the ALLL to net loans for 2019 was 0.70%. Deposits increased by 5% from 2018 to 2019.

National Bank of Arizona

National Bank of Arizona is headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 7th largest full-service commercial bank in Arizona as measured by domestic deposits in the state.

NBAZ’s income before income taxes increased by $14 million, or 14%, during 2019 due to increased net interest income from loan growth and improved fee revenue. The loan portfolio increased during 2019 by $117 million, composed of increases in CRE and consumer loans of  $110 million and $38 million, respectively, and a decrease in commercial loans of $31 million. The credit quality of NBAZ’s loan portfolio remained strong during 2019. The ratio of ALLL to net loans and leases was 0.78% at December 31, 2019. Deposits increased by 4% from 2018 to 2019.

47
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Nevada State Bank

Nevada State Bank is headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 5th largest full-service commercial bank in Nevada as measured by domestic deposits in the state. NSB focuses on serving small and mid-sized businesses as well as retail consumers, with an emphasis on relationship banking.

In 2019, NSB’s income before in taxes increased by $11 million, or 27% due to improvement in net interest income from loan growth. NSB’s loans increased by $205 million during 2019, including increases of $200 million in commercial loans and $32 million in CRE loans, while consumer loans decreased by $27 million. The credit quality of NSB’s loan portfolio remained stable during 2019. Nonperforming lending-related assets increased $9 million, or 50%, from the prior year. The ratio of the ALLL to net loans and leases decreased to 0.61% at December 31, 2019. Deposits increased by 11% from 2018 to 2019.

Vectra Bank Colorado

Vectra Bank Colorado is headquartered in Denver, Colorado. If it were a separately chartered bank, it would be the 13th largest full-service commercial bank in Colorado as measured by domestic deposits in the state.

In 2019, Vectra’s income before income taxes increased by $8 million, or 18%. During 2019, total loans increased by $101 million, including $57 million in commercial loans, $26 million in CRE loans, and $18 million in consumer loans. The credit quality of Vectra’s loan portfolio was strong, and the ratio of ALLL to net loans and leases was 0.96% at December 31, 2019. Deposits increased by 8% from 2018 to 2019.

The Commerce Bank of Washington

The Commerce Bank of Washington is headquartered in Seattle, Washington. It operates in Washington under The Commerce Bank of Washington name and in Portland, Oregon, under The Commerce Bank of Oregon name. Its business strategy focuses on serving the financial needs of commercial businesses, including professional services firms. TCBW has been successful in serving the greater Seattle/Puget Sound and Portland regions without requiring extensive investments in a traditional branch network. It has been innovative in effectively utilizing couriers, bank by mail, remote deposit image capture, and other technologies.

TCBW’s income before income taxes increased $4 million, or 12%, during 2019. The loan portfolio increased by $134 million, including increases of $134 million in commercial loans and $7 million in consumer loans, offset by a decrease of $7 million in CRE loans. Deposits increased by 5% from 2018 to 2019.

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

Interest-Earning Assets

Interest-earning assets are those assets that have interest rates or yields associated with them. One of our goals is to maintain a high level of interest-earning assets relative to total assets while keeping nonearning assets at a minimum. Interest-earning assets consist of money market investments, securities, loans, and leases.

Schedule 7, which we referenced in our discussion of net interest income, includes the average balances of our interest-earning assets, the amount of revenue generated by them, and their respective yields. Another goal is to maintain a higher-yielding mix of interest-earning assets, such as loans, relative to lower-yielding assets, while maintaining adequate levels of highly liquid assets. As a result of this goal we redeployed funds from lower-yielding money market investments, in addition to using wholesale borrowings, to purchase agency securities.

Average interest-earning assets were $64.9 billion in 2019, compared with $62.4 billion in the previous year. Average interest-earning assets as a percentage of total average assets were 93% and 94% in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Average loans were $48.3 billion in 2019 and $45.4 billion in 2018. Average loans as a percentage of total average assets were 69% in 2019, compared with 68% in 2018.

48
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Average money market investments, consisting of interest-bearing deposits and federal funds sold and security resell agreements, decreased by 1% from 2018. Average securities decreased by 2% from 2018. Average total deposits increased by 4%; average total loans also increased by 6% in 2019 when compared with 2018.

AVERAGE OUTSTANDING LOANS AND DEPOSITS 

(at December 31)

Investment Securities Portfolio

We invest in securities to actively manage liquidity and interest rate risk, in addition to generating revenue for the Bank. Refer to the “Liquidity Risk Management” section on page 69 for additional information on management of liquidity and funding. The following schedule presents a profile of our investment securities portfolio. The amortized cost amounts represent the original cost of the investments, adjusted for related accumulated amortization or accretion of any yield adjustments, and for impairment losses, including credit-related impairment. The estimated fair value measurement levels and methodology are discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

49
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 14 

INVESTMENT SECURITIES PORTFOLIO

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The amortized cost of investment securities at December 31, 2019 decreased by 10% from the balance at December 31, 2018.

The investment securities portfolio includes $340 million of net premium as of December 31, 2019, down from $438 million in the prior year, that is distributed across various asset classes as illustrated in the preceding schedule. Premium amortization for 2019 was approximately $120 million, compared with approximately $129 million in 2018. For more information on the accounting for premiums and discounts for investment securities see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2019, under the GAAP fair value accounting hierarchy, 0.2% of the $13.7 billion fair value of the AFS securities portfolio was valued at Level 1, 99.8% was valued at Level 2, and there were no Level 3 AFS securities. At December 31, 2018, 0.3% of the $14.7 billion fair value of AFS securities portfolio was valued at Level 1, 99.7% was valued at Level 2, and there were no Level 3 AFS securities. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of fair value accounting.

Schedule 15 presents the maturities of the different types of investments that we owned, using contractual maturities, and the corresponding average yields as of December 31, 2019 based on amortized cost. See “Liquidity Risk Management” on page 69 and Notes 1, 5 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our investment securities and their management.

50
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 15 

MATURITIES AND AVERAGE YIELDS ON SECURITIES

At December 31, 2019

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Taxable-equivalent rates used where applicable. 

Exposure to State and Local Governments

We provide multiple products and services to state and local governments (referred to collectively as “municipalities”), including deposit services, loans, and investment banking services, and we invest in securities issued by the municipalities.

Schedule 16 summarizes our exposure to state and local municipalities:

Schedule 16 

MUNICIPALITIES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2019, no municipal loans were on nonaccrual. A significant amount of the municipal loan and lease portfolio is secured by real estate and equipment, or is a general obligation of a municipal entity. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the credit quality of these municipal loans. 

51
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Foreign Exposure and Operations

Our credit exposure to foreign sovereign risks and total foreign credit exposure is not significant. We also do not have significant foreign exposure to derivative counterparties. We had no foreign deposits at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.

Loans Held for Sale

Loans held for sale were $129 million at December 31, 2019, compared with $93 million at December 31, 2018, and are generally commercial loans and consumer mortgage and small business loans to be sold in the secondary market. As of December 31, 2019, the majority of the loans held for sale consisted primarily of consumer mortgage loans.

Loan Portfolio

As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, net loans and leases accounted for 70% and 68% of total assets, respectively. Schedule 17 presents our loans outstanding by type of loan as of the five most recent year-ends. The schedule also includes a maturity profile for the loans that were outstanding as of December 31, 2019. However, while this schedule reflects the contractual maturity and repricing characteristics of these loans, in a small number of cases, we have hedged the repricing characteristics of our variable-rate loans as more fully described in “Interest Rate Risk” on page 64.

Schedule 17 

LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIO BY TYPE AND MATURITY

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

As of December 31, 2019, net loans and leases were $49 billion, reflecting a 4% increase from the prior year. The increase is primarily attributable to new loan originations.

Loan portfolio growth during 2019 was widespread across loan products and geographies. Of the significant increases within the portfolio, municipal loans increased $732 million, term CRE increased $405 million, consumer 1-4 family residential loans increased $392 million, commercial and industrial loans increased $247 million, and commercial owner-occupied loans increased $240 million. The growth in the overall loan portfolio was primarily at Amegy and CB&T.

We expect moderate total loan and lease growth during 2020, primarily in municipal, consumer 1-4 family residential, commercial and industrial, and commercial owner-occupied. We expect stable to moderate growth in oil and gas and CRE loans, partially offset by a moderate decline in the National Real Estate (“NRE”) loan portfolio.

Loans serviced for the benefit of others decreased to $3.5 billion during 2019 from $3.9 billion in 2018. 

Other Noninterest-Bearing Investments

During 2019, the Bank decreased its short-term borrowings with the FHLB by $3.5 billion. This decrease required a reduced investment in FHLB activity stock, which consequently decreased by $140 million during the year. Aside from this decrease, other noninterest-bearing investments remained relatively stable as set forth in the following schedule. Schedule 18 summarizes our other noninterest-bearing investments.

Schedule 18 

OTHER NONINTEREST-BEARING INVESTMENTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Premises, Equipment and Software, Net

Net premises, equipment and software increased $18 million, or 1.6%, during 2019. In 2017, we implemented the first phase of our core lending and deposit systems replacement project, which replaced the Bank’s primary consumer lending systems. During the first quarter of 2019, we successfully implemented the second phase of this project by replacing the Bank's primary commercial and CRE lending systems. With this milestone reached, we now have substantially all our in-scope retail, commercial and CRE loans on a new modern core platform. We are well underway with the project to convert our deposit servicing system by 2022. The total core replacement project spend amount is comprised of both capitalized amounts and amounts that are expensed as incurred. The useful life for most of the capitalized costs is 10 years. The following schedule shows the total amount of costs capitalized, less accumulated depreciation, by phase for the core replacement project.

Schedule 19 

CAPITALIZED COSTS FOR THE CORE REPLACEMENT PROJECT

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Deposits

Deposits, both interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing, are a primary source of funding for the Bank. Average total deposits increased by 4% during 2019, compared with 2018, with average interest-bearing deposits increasing by 8% and average noninterest-bearing deposits decreasing by 2.0%. The average interest rate paid for interest-bearing deposits was 34 bps higher in 2019 compared with 2018.

Demand, savings, and money market deposits were 91.7% and 92.0% of total deposits at December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018, respectively. At December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, total deposits included $2.3 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of brokered deposits.

See Notes 12 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Liquidity Risk Management” on page 69 for additional information on funding and borrowed funds.

RISK ELEMENTS 

Since risk is inherent in substantially all of the Bank’s operations, management of risk is an integral part of its operations and is also a key determinant of its overall performance. The Board of Directors has appointed a Risk Oversight Committee (“ROC”) that consists of appointed Board members who oversee the Bank’s risk management processes. The ROC meets on a regular basis to monitor and review Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) policies and activities. As required by its charter, the ROC performs oversight for various ERM activities and approves ERM policies and activities as detailed in the ROC charter.

Management applies various strategies to reduce the risks to which the Bank’s operations are exposed, including credit, interest rate and market, liquidity, and operational risks. These risks are overseen by the various management committees of which the Enterprise Risk Management Committee is the focal point for the monitoring and review of enterprise risk. 

Credit Risk Management

Credit risk is the possibility of loss from the failure of a borrower, guarantor, or another obligor to fully perform under the terms of a credit-related contract. Credit risk arises primarily from our lending activities, as well as from off-balance sheet credit instruments.

The Board of Directors, through the ROC, is responsible for approving the overall credit policies relating to the management of the credit risk of the Bank. In addition, the ROC oversees and monitors adherence to key credit policies and the credit risk appetite as defined in the Risk Appetite Framework. Additionally, the Board has established the Credit Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Credit Officer and consisting of members of management, to which it has delegated the responsibility for managing credit risk for the Bank and approving changes to the Bank’s credit policies.

Centralized oversight of credit risk is provided through credit policies, credit risk management, and credit examination functions. Our credit policies place emphasis on strong underwriting standards and early detection of potential problem credits in order to develop and implement action plans on a timely basis to mitigate any potential losses. These formal credit policies and procedures provide the Bank with a framework for consistent underwriting and a basis for sound credit decisions at the local banking affiliate level. Credit examinations related to the ACL are reported to both the Audit Committee and the ROC.

Our credit risk management function is separate from the lending function and strengthens control over, and the independent evaluation of, credit activities. In addition, we have a well-defined set of standards for evaluating our loan portfolio, and we utilize a comprehensive loan risk-grading system to determine the risk potential in the portfolio. Furthermore, the internal credit examination department, which is independent of the lending function, periodically conducts examinations of the Bank’s lending departments and credit activities. These examinations are designed to review credit quality, adequacy of documentation, appropriate loan risk-grading administration, and compliance with credit policies. New, expanded, or modified products and services, as well as new lines of business, are approved by the New Initiative Review Committee.

54
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Our credit risk management strategy includes diversification of our loan portfolio. We attempt to avoid the risk of an undue concentration of credits in a particular industry or collateral type or with an individual customer or counterparty. Generally, our loan portfolio is well diversified; however, due to the nature of our geographical footprint, there are certain significant concentrations primarily in CRE and oil and gas-related lending. We have adopted and adhere to concentration limits on leveraged lending, municipal lending, oil and gas-related lending, and various types of CRE lending, particularly construction and land development lending. All of these limits are continually monitored and revised as necessary. Our business activity is primarily with customers located within the geographical footprint of our banking affiliates.

As we continue to monitor our concentration risk, the composition of our loan portfolio remained relatively unchanged from the prior year. Total commercial loans remained at 52% of the total portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018. CRE loans remained at 24% of the total portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018. Consumer loans also remained at 24% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2019 and 2018.

Schedule 20 

LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIO DIVERSIFICATION 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Government Agency Guaranteed Loans

We participate in various guaranteed lending programs sponsored by U.S. government agencies, such as the SBA, Federal Housing Authority, Veterans’ Administration, Export-Import Bank of the U.S. and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. As of December 31, 2019, the principal balance of these loans was $580 million, and the guaranteed portion of these loans was $433 million. Most of these loans were guaranteed by the SBA.

55
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The following schedule presents the composition of U.S. government agency guaranteed loans.

Schedule 21 

U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCY GUARANTEES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commercial Lending

The following schedule provides selected information regarding lending concentrations to certain industries in our commercial lending portfolio.

Schedule 22 

COMMERCIAL LENDING BY INDUSTRY GROUP

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes primarily utilities, power, and renewable energy.

2No other industry group exceeds 3.5%.

56
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Commercial Real Estate Loans 

Selected information indicative of credit quality regarding our CRE loan portfolio is presented in the following schedule.

Schedule 23

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO BY LOAN TYPE AND COLLATERAL LOCATION

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1No other geography exceeds $79 million for all three loan types.

2Delinquency rates include nonaccrual loans.

57
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Approximately 9% of the CRE term loans consist of mini-perm loans as of December 31, 2019. For such loans, construction has been completed and the project has stabilized to a level that supports the granting of a mini-perm loan in accordance with our underwriting standards. Mini-perm loans generally have initial maturities of three to five years. The remaining 91% of CRE loans are term loans with initial maturities generally of 5 to 20 years. The stabilization criteria for a project to qualify for a term loan differ by product type and include criteria related to the cash flow generated by the project, loan-to-value ratio, and occupancy rates.

Approximately $158 million, or 7%, of the commercial construction and land development portfolio at December 31, 2019 consists of acquisition and development loans. Most of these acquisition and development loans are secured by specific retail, apartment, office, or other projects.

Underwriting on commercial properties is primarily based on the economic viability of the project with heavy consideration given to the creditworthiness and experience of the sponsor. We generally require that the owner’s equity be injected prior to bank advances. Remargining requirements (required equity infusions upon a decline in value or cash flow of the collateral) are often included in the loan agreement along with guarantees of the sponsor. Recognizing that debt is paid via cash flow, the projected cash flows of the project are critical in the underwriting because these determine the ultimate value of the property and its ability to service debt. Therefore, in most projects (with the exception of multi-family and hospitality construction projects), we require substantial pre-leasing/leasing in our underwriting and we generally require a minimum projected stabilized debt service coverage ratio of 1.20 or higher, depending on the project asset class. 

Within the residential construction and development sector, many of the requirements previously mentioned, such as creditworthiness and experience of the developer, up-front injection of the developer’s equity, principal curtailment requirements, and the viability of the project are also important in underwriting a residential development loan. Significant consideration is given to the forecasted market acceptance of the product, location, strength of the developer, and the ability of the developer to stay within budget. Progress inspections by qualified independent inspectors are routinely performed before disbursements are made.

Real estate appraisals are ordered in accordance with regulatory guidelines and are validated independently of the loan officer and the borrower, generally by our internal appraisal review function, which is staffed by licensed appraisers. In some cases, reports from automated valuation services are used or internal evaluations are performed. A new appraisal or evaluation is required when a loan deteriorates to a certain level of credit weakness.

Advance rates (i.e., loan commitments) will vary based on the viability of the project and the creditworthiness of the sponsor, but our guidelines generally limit advances to 50% for raw land, 65% for land development, 65% for finished commercial lots, 75% for finished residential lots, 80% for pre-sold homes, 75% for models and homes not under contract, and 75% for commercial properties. Exceptions may be granted on a case-by-case basis.

Loan agreements require regular financial information on the project and the sponsor in addition to lease schedules, rent rolls and, on construction projects, independent progress inspection reports. The receipt of this financial information is monitored, and calculations are made to determine adherence to the covenants set forth in the loan agreement.

The existence of a guarantee that improves the likelihood of repayment is taken into consideration when analyzing CRE loans for impairment. If the support of the guarantor is quantifiable and documented, it is included in the potential cash flows and liquidity available for debt repayment, and our impairment methodology takes this repayment source into consideration. 

When we modify or extend a loan, we also give consideration to whether the borrower is in financial difficulty, and whether we have granted a concession. In determining if an interest rate concession has been granted, we consider whether the interest rate on the modified loan is equivalent to current market rates for new debt with similar risk characteristics. If the rate in the modification is less than current market rates, it may indicate that a concession was granted and impairment exists. However, if additional collateral is obtained, or if a guarantor exists who has the 

58
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

capacity and willingness to support the loan on an extended basis, we also consider the nature and amount of the additional collateral and guarantees in the ultimate determination of whether a concession has been granted.

In general, we obtain and consider updated financial information for the guarantor as part of our determination to extend a loan. The quality and frequency of financial reporting collected and analyzed varies depending on the contractual requirements for reporting, the size of the transaction, and the strength of the guarantor.

Complete underwriting of the guarantor includes, but is not limited to, an analysis of the guarantor’s current financial statements, leverage, liquidity, global cash flow, global debt service coverage, contingent liabilities, etc. The assessment also includes a qualitative analysis of the guarantor’s willingness to perform in the event of a problem and demonstrated history of performing in similar situations. Additional analysis may include personal financial statements, tax returns, liquidity (brokerage) confirmations, and other reports, as appropriate.

A qualitative assessment is performed on a case-by-case basis to evaluate the guarantor’s experience, performance track record, reputation, and willingness to work with us. We also utilize market information sources, rating, and scoring services in our assessment. This qualitative analysis coupled with a documented quantitative ability to support the loan may result in a higher-quality internal loan grade, which may reduce the level of allowance we estimate. Previous documentation of the guarantor’s financial ability to support the loan is discounted if there is any indication of a lack of willingness by the guarantor to support the loan.

In the event of default, we evaluate the pursuit of any and all appropriate potential sources of repayment, which may come from multiple sources, including the guarantee. A number of factors are considered when deciding whether or not to pursue a guarantor, including, but not limited to, the value and liquidity of other sources of repayment (collateral), the financial strength and liquidity of the guarantor, possible statutory limitations (e.g., single action rule on real estate) and the overall cost of pursuing a guarantee compared with the ultimate amount we may be able to recover. In other instances, the guarantor may voluntarily support a loan without any formal pursuit of remedies.

Consumer Loans

We have mainly been an originator of first and second mortgages, generally considered to be of prime quality. We generally hold variable-rate loans in our portfolio and sell “conforming” fixed-rate loans to third parties, including Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, for which we make representations and warranties that the loans meet certain underwriting and collateral documentation standards.

We are engaged in Home Equity Credit Line (“HECL”) lending. At both December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our HECL portfolio totaled $2.9 billion. The following schedule describes the composition of our HECL portfolio by lien status.

Schedule 24

HECL PORTFOLIO BY LIEN STATUS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2019, loans representing less than 1% of the outstanding balance in the HECL portfolio were estimated to have combined loan-to-value ratios (“CLTV”) above 100%. An estimated CLTV ratio is the ratio of our loan plus any prior lien amounts divided by the estimated current collateral-value. At origination, underwriting standards for the HECL portfolio generally include a maximum 80% CLTV with high credit scores at origination.

Approximately 89% of our HECL portfolio is still in the draw period, and approximately 18% of those loans are scheduled to begin amortizing within the next five years. We regularly analyze the risk of borrower default in the event of a loan becoming fully amortizing and the risk of higher interest rates. The analysis indicates that the risk of loss from this factor is minimal in the current economic environment. The ratio of net charge-offs to average 

59
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

balances at year-end 2019 and 2018 was 0.02% and (0.02)%, respectively. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit quality of this portfolio.

Nonperforming Assets

Nonperforming assets as a percentage of loans and leases and other real estate owned (“OREO”) decreased to 0.51% at December 31, 2019, compared with 0.55% at December 31, 2018.

Total nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2019 decreased to $243 million from $252 million at December 31, 2018, primarily in the term CRE loan portfolio. The largest total decrease in nonaccrual loans occurred at Amegy.

The balance of nonaccrual loans can decrease due to paydowns, charge-offs, and the return of loans to accrual status under certain conditions. If a nonaccrual loan is refinanced or restructured, the new note is immediately placed on nonaccrual. If a restructured loan performs under the new terms for at least a period of six months, the loan can be considered for return to accrual status. See “Restructured Loans” and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on nonaccrual loans.

60
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The following schedule presents our nonperforming assets:

Schedule 25

NONPERFORMING ASSETS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Includes loans held for sale.

Restructured Loans

Troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) are loans that have been modified to accommodate a borrower who is experiencing financial difficulties, and for whom we have granted a concession that we would not otherwise consider. TDRs decreased $49 million, or 24%, during 2019, primarily due to payments and payoffs. Commercial loans may be modified to provide the borrower more time to complete the project, to achieve a higher lease-up percentage, to sell the property, or for other reasons. Consumer loan TDRs represent loan modifications in which a concession has been granted to the borrower who is unable to refinance the loan with another lender, or who is experiencing economic hardship. Such consumer loan TDRs may include residential mortgage loans and home equity loans.

61
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

If a nonaccruing restructured loan performs for at least six months according to the modified terms, and an analysis of the customer’s financial condition indicates that we are reasonably assured of repayment of the modified principal and interest, the loan may be returned to accrual status. The borrower’s payment performance prior to, and following, the restructuring is taken into account to determine whether a loan should be returned to accrual status.

Schedule 26 

ACCRUING AND NONACCRUING TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURED LOANS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the periods following the calendar year in which a loan was restructured, a loan may no longer be reported as a TDR if it is on accrual, is in compliance with its modified terms, and yields a market rate (as determined and documented at the time of the modification or restructure). See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding TDRs.

Schedule 27

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURED LOANS ROLLFORWARD

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Allowance for Credit Losses

In analyzing the adequacy of the ALLL, we utilize a comprehensive loan grading system to determine the risk potential in the portfolio and also consider the results of independent internal credit reviews. To determine the adequacy of the allowance, our loan and lease portfolio is broken into segments based on loan type.

62
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The following schedule shows the changes in the allowance for loan losses and a summary of loan loss experience:

Schedule 28

SUMMARY OF LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Schedule 29

ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

At December 31,

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The total ALLL remained stable during 2019, primarily as a result of loan growth, offset by recent default and loss rates that are lower than long-term averages.

The RULC represents a reserve for potential losses associated with off-balance sheet commitments and standby letters of credit. The reserve is separately shown in the balance sheet and any related increases or decreases in the reserve are shown separately in the statement of income. At December 31, 2019, the reserve increased by $2 million, compared with December 31, 2018, for reasons described previously for the change in the ALLL.

63
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the ACL and credit trends experienced in each portfolio segment.

Interest Rate and Market Risk Management 

Interest rate and market risk are managed centrally. Interest rate risk is the potential for reduced net interest income and other rate-sensitive income resulting from adverse changes in the level of interest rates. Market risk is the potential for loss arising from adverse changes in the fair value of fixed-income securities, equity securities, other earning assets, and derivative financial instruments as a result of changes in interest rates or other factors. As a financial institution that engages in transactions involving an array of financial products, we are exposed to both interest rate risk and market risk.

The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for approving the overall policies relating to the management of the financial risk of the Bank, including interest rate and market risk management. The Board has established the Asset Liability Committee (“ALCO”) consisting of members of management, to which it has delegated the responsibility of managing interest rate and market risk for the Bank. ALCO establishes and periodically revises policy limits and reviews with the ROC the limits and limit exceptions reported by management. 

Interest Rate Risk 

Interest rate risk is one of the most significant risks to which we are regularly exposed. In general, our goal in managing interest rate risk is to manage balance sheet sensitivity to reduce net income volatility due to changes in interest rates.

Over the course of the last several years, we have actively reduced the level of asset sensitivity through the purchase of short-to-medium duration agency pass-through securities and funding these purchases by reducing money market investments and increasing short-term borrowings. This repositioning of the investment portfolio has increased current net interest income while dampening the impact of lower rates on net interest income contraction. We anticipate moderately lower net interest income in a falling rate environment as our assets reprice more quickly than our liabilities. 

Additionally, during 2019 we've expanded our use of interest rate derivatives to further reduce asset sensitivity through purchased interest rate floors (which were subsequently rolled into receive-fixed interest rate swaps) and additional receive-fixed interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges of pools of floating-rate loans. We also use receive-fixed interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt to further manage our interest rate risk profile. For more information on derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow and fair value hedges, see Note 7 – Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.

The schedule below presents all derivatives utilized in our asset liability management ("ALM") activities that are designated in qualifying hedging relationships as defined by GAAP as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. The schedule includes the notional amount, fair value, and the weighted-average strike rate for each category of interest rate derivatives, shown by maturity for the next five years.

64
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 30

ASSET LIABILITY MANAGEMENT DERIVATIVE POSITIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Fair Values shown in the schedule above are presented net, with both positive and negative fair values reported in a single amount for each line. Values exclude the effects of collateral settlements for centrally cleared derivatives.

Interest Rate Risk Measurement

We monitor interest rate risk through the use of two complementary measurement methods: net interest income simulation, or Earnings at Risk (“EaR”), and Economic Value of Equity at Risk (“EVE”). EaR analyzes the expected change in near term (one year) net interest income in response to changes in interest rates. In the EVE method, we measure the expected changes in the fair value of equity in response to changes in interest rates.

EaR is an estimate of the change in total net interest income that would be recognized under different interest rate environments over a one-year period. This simulated impact to net interest income due to a change in rates uses as its base a modeled net interest income that is not necessarily the same as the most recent quarter's or year's reported 

65
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

net interest income. Rather, EaR employs estimated net interest income under an unchanged interest rate scenario as the basis for comparison. The EaR process then simulates changes to the base net interest income under several interest rate scenarios, including parallel and nonparallel interest rate shifts across the yield curve, taking into account deposit repricing assumptions and estimates of the possible exercise of embedded options within the portfolio (e.g., a borrower’s ability to refinance a loan under a lower-rate environment). The EaR model does not contemplate changes in fee income that are amortized into interest income (e.g. premiums, discounts, origination points and costs, etc). Our policy contains a trigger for a 10% decline in rate-sensitive income as well as a risk capacity of a 13% decline if rates were to immediately rise or fall in parallel by 200 bps. As of December 31, 2018 the EaR declined by 12% for a 200 bps decline in rates. This trigger violation informed our decision to move to a less asset-sensitive position throughout 2019. As of December 31, 2019 the EaR declined by 9% for a 200 bps decline in rates. 

EVE is calculated as the fair value of all assets minus the fair value of liabilities. We measure changes in the dollar amount of EVE for parallel shifts in interest rates. Due to embedded optionality and asymmetric rate risk, changes in EVE can be useful in quantifying risks not apparent for small rate changes. Examples of such risks may include out-of-the-money interest rate caps (or limits) on loans, which have little effect under small rate movements but may become important if large rate changes were to occur, or substantial prepayment deceleration for low-rate mortgages in a higher-rate environment. Our policy contains a trigger for an 8% decline in EVE as well as a risk capacity of a 10% decline if rates were to immediately rise or fall in parallel by 200 bps. Exceptions to the EVE limits are subject to notification and approval by the ROC. 

Estimating the impact on net interest income and EVE requires that we assess a number of variables and make various assumptions in managing our exposure to changes in interest rates. The assessments address deposit withdrawals and deposit product migration (e.g., customers moving money from checking accounts to certificates of deposit), competitive pricing (e.g., existing loans and deposits are assumed to roll into new loans and deposits at similar spreads relative to benchmark interest rates), loan and security prepayments, and the effects of other similar embedded options. As a result of uncertainty about the maturity and repricing characteristics of both deposits and loans, we also calculate the sensitivity of EaR and EVE results to key assumptions. As most of our liabilities are comprised of indeterminate maturity and managed rate deposits, the modeled results are highly sensitive to the assumptions used for these deposits, such as checking, savings and money market accounts, and also to prepayment assumptions used for loans with prepayment options. We use historical regression analysis as a guide for setting such assumptions; however, due to the current low interest rate environment, which has little historical precedent, estimated deposit behavior may not reflect actual future results. Additionally, competition for funding in the marketplace has and may again result in changes to deposit pricing on interest-bearing accounts that are greater or less than changes in benchmark interest rates such as LIBOR or the federal funds rate.

Under most rising interest rate environments, we would expect some customers to move balances from demand deposits to interest-bearing accounts such as money market, savings, or certificates of deposit. The models are particularly sensitive to the assumption about the rate of such migration.

In addition, we assume certain correlation rates, often referred to as a “deposit beta,” of interest-bearing deposits, wherein the rates paid to customers change at a different pace when compared with changes in average benchmark interest rates. Generally, certificates of deposit are assumed to have a high correlation rate, while interest-on-checking accounts are assumed to have a lower correlation rate. Actual results may differ materially due to factors including the shape of the yield curve, competitive pricing, money supply, credit worthiness of the Bank, and so forth; however, we use our historical experience as well as industry data to inform our assumptions. 

66
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

The aforementioned migration and correlation assumptions result in deposit durations presented in the following schedule.

Schedule 31

DEPOSIT ASSUMPTIONS 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of the dates indicated and incorporating the assumptions previously described, the following schedule shows EaR, or percentage change in net interest income, based on a static balance sheet size, in the first year after the interest rate change if interest rates were to sustain immediate parallel changes ranging from -100 bps to +300 bps.

Schedule 32

INCOME SIMULATION – CHANGE IN NET INTEREST INCOME 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Assumes rates cannot go below zero in the negative rate shift.

For nonmaturity interest-bearing deposits, the weighted average modeled beta is 32%. If the weighted average deposit beta were to decline to 28%, the EaR in the -100bps shock would change from -4.6% to -5.1%.

For comparative purposes, the December 31, 2018 measures are presented in the following schedule.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Assumes rates cannot go below zero in the negative rate shift.

The asset sensitivity as measured by EaR decreased slightly since December 31, 2018, due to changes in the investment securities and funding compositions.

The EaR analysis focuses on parallel rate shocks across the term structure of rates. The yield curve typically does not move in a parallel manner. If we consider a steepening rate shock where the short-term rate moves -200bps but the ten-year rate only moves -30bps, the earnings decline is 15% less severe over 12 months compared with the parallel -200bps rate shock.

As of the dates indicated, the following schedule shows our estimated percentage change in EVE under parallel interest rate changes ranging from -100 bps to +300 bps. For nonmaturity interest-bearing deposits, the weighted average modeled beta is 32%. If the weighted average deposit beta were to decrease to 28% it would change the EVE in the -100bps shock from 8.0% to 7.9%. The decrease in EVE in the down rate shock is a result of the fact that in a very low rate environment the discount to par on deposits is floored at zero. 

67
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 33

CHANGES IN ECONOMIC VALUE OF EQUITY

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Assumes rates cannot go below zero in the negative rate shift.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Assumes rates cannot go below zero in the negative rate shift.

The changes in EVE measures from December 31, 2018 are primarily driven by the behavior of the deposit models. For nonmaturity deposits, the deposit premium (or discount below par value) is floored at zero in a low-rate environment. With term rates significantly lower on December 31, 2019 than on December 31, 2018 (e.g., 5 year LIBOR swap is approximately 110bps lower), deposit premium valuations have approached the floor resulting in minimal downward change in the -100bps rate shock. Furthermore, during 2019 some deposit model parameters were updated, which made the premium valuation closer to zero and the negative rate shock less comparable to the December 31, 2018 value. The positive rate shocks were less impacted by these model updates.

Our focus on business banking also plays a significant role in determining the nature of the Bank’s asset-liability management posture. At December 31, 2019, $21 billion of the Bank’s commercial lending and CRE loan balances were scheduled to reprice in the next three months. Of these variable-rate loans approximately 98% are tied to either the prime rate or LIBOR. For these variable-rate loans we have executed $3.6 billion of cash flow hedges by receiving fixed rates on interest rate swaps or through purchased interest rate floors. Additionally, asset sensitivity is reduced due to $237 million of variable-rate loans being priced at floored rates at December 31, 2019, which were above the “index plus spread” rate by an average of 43 bps. At December 31, 2019, we also had $3.3 billion of variable-rate consumer loans scheduled to reprice in the next three months. Of these variable-rate consumer loans approximately $65 million were priced at floored rates, which were above the “index plus spread” rate by an average of 17 bps. See Notes 3 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative instruments.

In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority, the authority regulating LIBOR, along with various other regulatory bodies, announced that LIBOR would likely be discontinued at the end of 2021. For more information on the transition from LIBOR see Risk Factors on page 15. We are actively working to address any impacted contracts but realize that amending certain contracts indexed to LIBOR may require consent from the counterparties which could be difficult and costly to obtain in certain limited circumstances. Interest rate and market risk are managed centrally.

Market Risk – Fixed Income

We engage in the underwriting and trading of municipal securities. This trading activity exposes us to a risk of loss arising from adverse changes in the prices of these fixed-income securities.

At December 31, 2019, we had a relatively small amount, $182 million, of trading assets and $66 million of securities sold, not yet purchased, compared with $106 million and $85 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018.

We are exposed to market risk through changes in fair value. We are also exposed to market risk for interest rate swaps used to hedge interest rate risk. Changes in the fair value of AFS securities and in interest rate swaps that qualify as cash flow hedges are included in AOCI for each financial reporting period. During 2019, the after-tax change in AOCI attributable to AFS securities increased by $257 million, due largely to changes in the interest rate environment, compared with a $114 million decrease in the same prior year period. 

68
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Market Risk – Equity Investments

Through our equity investment activities, we own equity securities that are publicly traded. In addition, we own equity securities in companies and governmental entities, e.g., Federal Reserve Bank and an FHLB, that are not publicly traded. The accounting for equity investments may use the cost, fair value, equity, or full consolidation methods of accounting, depending on our ownership position and degree of involvement in influencing the investees’ affairs. Regardless of the accounting method, the value of our investment is subject to fluctuation. Because the fair value of these securities may fall below our investment costs, we are exposed to the possibility of loss. Equity investments in private and public companies are approved, monitored, and evaluated by the Bank’s Equity Investments Committee consisting of members of management.

We hold both direct and indirect investments in predominantly pre-public companies, primarily through various SBIC venture capital funds. Our equity exposure to these investments was approximately $154 million and $132 million at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. On occasion, some of the companies within our SBIC investments may issue an initial public offering. In this case, the fund is generally subject to a lockout period before liquidating the investment, which can introduce additional market risk. 

Liquidity Risk Management

Overview

Liquidity refers to our capacity to meet our cash and collateral obligations and to manage both expected and unexpected cash flows without adversely impacting the operations or financial strength of the Bank. Sources of liquidity include both traditional forms of funding, such as deposits, borrowings, and equity and unencumbered assets, such as marketable loans and securities.

Since liquidity risk is closely linked to both credit risk and market risk, many of the previously discussed risk control mechanisms also apply to the monitoring and management of liquidity risk. We manage our liquidity to provide adequate funds for our customers’ credit needs, capital plan actions, anticipated financial and contractual obligations, which include withdrawals by depositors, debt and capital service requirements, and lease obligations.

Overseeing liquidity management is the responsibility of ALCO, which implements a Board-approved corporate Liquidity and Funding Policy. This policy addresses monitoring and maintaining adequate liquidity, diversifying funding positions, and anticipating future funding needs. The policy also includes liquidity ratio guidelines, such as a 30-day liquidity coverage ratio, that are used to monitor the liquidity positions of the Bank as well as various stress test and liquid asset measurements for the Bank. The Bank continues to perform liquidity stress tests and assess its portfolio of highly liquid assets (sufficient to cover 30-day funding needs under stress scenarios). At December 31 2019, our investment securities portfolio of $14 billion and cash and money market investments of $2 billion collectively comprised 24% of total assets.

The management of liquidity and funding is performed by the Treasury Department under the direction of the Corporate Treasurer, with oversight by ALCO. The Treasurer is responsible for recommending changes to existing funding plans, as well as to the Bank’s Liquidity Policy. These recommendations must be submitted for approval to ALCO, and changes to the Policy also must be approved by the Bank’s ERMC and the Board of Directors. The Bank has adopted policy limits that govern liquidity risk. The policy requires the Bank to maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to cover cash outflows in the event of a severe liquidity crisis. Throughout 2019 and as of December 31, 2019, the Bank complied with this policy.

Liquidity Regulation

Upon passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act, the Bank is no longer subject to the Enhanced Prudential Standards for liquidity management (Reg. YY). However, the Bank continues to perform liquidity stress tests and assess its portfolio of highly liquid assets (sufficient to cover 30-day funding needs under the stress scenarios). Although the Bank is no longer subject to the regulations of the Final LCR Rule, it exceeds the regulatory requirements that mandates a buffer of securities and other liquid assets to cover 70% of 30-day cash outflows under the assumptions mandated therein.

69
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Liquidity Management Actions

The Bank’s consolidated cash, interest-bearing deposits held as investments, and security resell agreements were $1.8 billion at December 31, 2019, compared with $2.4 billion at December 31, 2018, a decrease of $0.6 billion. During 2019 the uses of cash were primarily from (1) a net decrease in short-term borrowings, (2) net loan originations, (3) repurchases of our common stock, and (4) dividends on common and preferred stock. The sources of cash during this same period were primarily from (1) a net increase in deposits, (2) a net decrease in investment securities, (3) the issuance of long-term debt, and (4) net cash provided by operating activities.

The Bank’s core deposits, consisting of noninterest-bearing demand deposits, savings and money market deposits, and time deposits under $250,000, were $54.8 billion at December 31, 2019, compared with $51.2 billion at December 31, 2018. Total deposits were $57.1 billion at December 31, 2019, compared with $54.1 billion at December 31, 2018. The $3.0 billion increase during 2019 was primarily a result of a $2.6 billion and $0.4 billion increase in savings and money market deposits and time deposits, respectively.

During 2019, the Bank issued $500 million of senior notes with an interest rate of 3.35% and a maturity date of March 4, 2022 and $500 million of subordinated notes with an interest rate of 3.25% and a maturity date of October 29, 2029. The Bank subsequently entered into receive-fixed interest rate swaps for the notes. The notes and swaps constitute qualifying fair value hedging relationships. For more information on derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow and fair value hedges, see Note 7 – Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. At December 31, 2019, maturities of our long-term senior and subordinated debt ranged from August 2021 to October 2029.

The Bank’s cash payments for interest, reflected in operating expenses, increased to $401 million during 2019 from $237 million during 2018 primarily due to an increase in deposits and long-term debt and an increase in the rate paid on borrowed funds. Additionally, the Bank paid approximately $260 million of total dividends on preferred stock and common stock during 2019, compared with $236 million during 2018. Dividends paid per common share have increased gradually from $0.20 in the first quarter of 2018 to $0.34 in the fourth quarter of 2019. In February 2020, the Board approved a quarterly common dividend of $0.34 per share.

General financial market and economic conditions impact our access to and cost of external financing. Access to funding markets for the Bank is also directly affected by the credit ratings received from various rating agencies. The ratings not only influence the costs associated with the borrowings, but can also influence the sources of the borrowings. All of the credit rating agencies rate the Bank’s debt at an investment-grade level. The Bank’s credit ratings improved slightly during 2019 and are presented in the following schedule.

Schedule 34

CREDIT RATINGS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The FHLB system and Federal Reserve Banks have been and are a source of back-up liquidity and a significant source of funding. Zions Bancorporation, N.A. is a member of the FHLB of Des Moines. The FHLB allows member banks to borrow against their eligible loans and securities to satisfy liquidity and funding requirements. The Bank is required to invest in FHLB and Federal Reserve stock to maintain their borrowing capacity.

At December 31, 2019, the amount available for additional FHLB and Federal Reserve borrowings was approximately $15.3 billion, compared with $13.8 billion at December 31, 2018. Loans with a carrying value of approximately $21.5 billion at December 31, 2019 have been pledged at the FHLB of Des Moines and the Federal Reserve as collateral for current and potential borrowings compared with $22.6 million at December 31, 2018. At 

70
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

December 31, 2019, we had $1.0 billion of short-term FHLB borrowings outstanding and no long-term FHLB or Federal Reserve borrowings outstanding, compared with $4.5 billion of short-term FHLB borrowings and no long-term FHLB or Federal Reserve borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2019, our total investment in FHLB and Federal Reserve stock was $50 million and $107 million, respectively, compared with $190 million and $139 million at December 31, 2018.

Our AFS investment securities are primarily held as a source of contingent liquidity. We target securities that can be easily turned into cash through sale or repurchase agreements and whose value remains relatively stable during market disruptions. We regularly manage our short-term funding needs through secured borrowing with the securities pledged as collateral. Interest rate risk management is another consideration for selection of investment securities. Our AFS securities balances decreased by $1.0 billion during 2019.

The Bank’s loan to total deposit ratio has remained consistent and was 85% at December 31, 2019, compared with 86% at December 31, 2018, indicating higher deposit growth than loan growth during 2019. In recent years loan growth has generally outpaced deposit growth. If our operating and investing activities, including deposit activity, do not provide the loan funding required, the Bank will rely on more expensive wholesale funding for a portion of its loan growth. Our use of average borrowed funds (both short- and long-term) increased by $858 million during 2019 as our average deposit growth, decrease in AFS securities, and operating activities only partially funded loan growth over the period. During 2019, we paid income taxes of $233 million, compared with $207 million during 2018.

We may also, from time to time, issue additional preferred stock, senior or subordinated notes or other forms of capital or debt instruments, depending on our capital, funding, asset-liability management or other needs as market conditions warrant and subject to any required regulatory approvals. Management believes that the sources of available liquidity are adequate to meet all reasonably foreseeable short-term and intermediate-term demands.

Contractual Obligations

Schedule 35 summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2019.

Schedule 35 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Indeterminable maturity deposits include noninterest-bearing demand, savings and money market.

2Commitments to make venture and other noninterest-bearing investments do not have defined maturity dates. They are due upon demand and may be drawn immediately, or as late as after five years. Therefore, these commitments are shown as having indeterminable maturities.

3The maturities on long-term debt do not include the associated hedges.

71
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

In addition to the commitments specifically noted in Schedule 35, we enter into a number of contractual commitments in the ordinary course of business. These include software licensing and maintenance, telecommunications services, facilities maintenance and equipment servicing, supplies purchasing, and other goods and services used in the operation of our business. Some of these contracts are renewable or cancellable at least annually, and in certain cases, to secure favorable pricing concessions, we have committed to contracts that may extend to several years.

We also enter into derivative contracts under which we are required either to receive or pay cash, depending on changes in interest rates. These contracts are carried at fair value on the balance sheet with the fair value representing the net present value of the expected future cash receipts and payments based on market rates of interest. The fair value of the contracts changes daily as interest rates change. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on derivative contracts.

Operational Risk Management

Operational risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human errors or misconduct, or adverse external events. In our ongoing efforts to identify and manage operational risk, we have an ERM department whose responsibility is to help employees, management and the Board of Directors to assess, understand, measure, manage, and monitor risk in accordance with our Risk Appetite Framework. We have documented both controls and the Control Self-Assessment related to financial reporting under the 2013 framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) and the FDICIA.

To manage and minimize our operational risk, we have in place transactional documentation requirements; systems and procedures to monitor transactions and positions; systems and procedures to detect and mitigate attempts to commit fraud, penetrate our systems or telecommunications, access customer data, and/or deny normal access to those systems to our legitimate customers; regulatory compliance reviews; and periodic reviews by the Bank’s Compliance Risk Management, Internal Audit and Credit Examination departments. Reconciliation procedures have been established to ensure that data processing systems consistently and accurately capture critical data. In addition, the Data Governance department has key governance surrounding data integrity and availability oversight. Further, we have key programs and procedures to maintain contingency and business continuity plans for operational support in the event of natural or other disasters. We also mitigate certain operational risks through the purchase of insurance, including errors and omissions and professional liability insurance.

We are continually improving our oversight of operational risk, including enhancement of risk identification, risk and control self-assessments, and antifraud measures, which are reported on a regular basis to enterprise management committees. The Operational Risk Management Committee reports to the ERMC, which reports to the ROC. Key measures have been established in line with our Risk Management Framework to increase oversight by ERM and Operational Risk Management through the strengthening of new initiative reviews, and enhancements to the Enterprise Procurement and Third Party Risk Management. We also continue to enhance and strengthen the Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery programs, Enterprise Security programs, Fraud Risk Oversight, Incident Response Oversight and Technology reporting.

Significant enhancements have also been made to governance, technology and reporting, including the establishment of Policy and Committee Governance programs, the implementation of a governance, risk and control solution, and the creation of an Enterprise Risk Profile and Operational Risk Profile. In addition, the establishment of an Enterprise Examination Management department has standardized our response and reporting, and increased our effectiveness and efficiencies with regulatory examination, communications and issues management.

The number and sophistication of attempts to disrupt or penetrate our systems, sometimes referred to as hacking, cyber fraud, cyberattacks, or other similar names continues to grow. To combat the ever increasing sophistication of cyberattacks, we have upgraded key detection software and expanded the number of staff and expertise to monitor and manage cyberattacks. In addition, we have elevated our oversight, internal reporting to the Board and respective 

72
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

committees. We have also implemented an advisory group made up of cyber industry and academic experts to assist us in better managing this critical risk.

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

Overview

The Board of Directors is responsible for approving the policies associated with capital management. The Board has established the Capital Management Committee (“CMC”), chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and consisting of members of management, whose primary responsibility is to recommend and administer the approved capital policies that govern the capital management of the Bank. Other major CMC responsibilities include:

•Setting overall capital targets within the Board-approved capital policy, monitoring performance compared with the Bank’s Capital Policy limits, and recommending changes to capital including dividends, common stock issuances and repurchases, subordinated debt, and changes in major strategies to maintain the Bank at well-capitalized levels;

•Maintaining an adequate capital cushion to withstand adverse stress events while continuing to meet the borrowing needs of its customers, and to provide reasonable assurance of continued access to wholesale funding, consistent with fiduciary responsibilities to depositors and bondholders; and

•Reviewing agency ratings of the Bank.

The Bank has a fundamental financial objective to consistently produce superior risk-adjusted returns on its shareholders’ capital. We believe that a strong capital position is vital to continued profitability and to promoting depositor and investor confidence. Specifically, it is the policy of the Bank to:

•Maintain sufficient capital to support current needs;

•Maintain an adequate capital cushion to withstand future adverse stress events while continuing to meet borrowing needs of its customers; and

•Meet fiduciary responsibilities to depositors and bondholders while managing capital distributions to shareholders through dividends and repurchases of common stock so as to be consistent with Federal Reserve guidelines SR 09-04 and 12 U.S.C §§ 56 and 60.

Merger of Bank Holding Company into Bank

On September 30, 2018, the Bank completed the merger of Zions Bancorporation, its former bank holding company, with, and into the Bank, formerly known as ZB, N.A. in order to reduce organizational complexity. The restructuring eliminated the bank holding company structure and associated regulatory framework, and resulted in ZB, N.A. being renamed Zions Bancorporation, National Association, and becoming the top-level entity within our corporate structure. The Bank’s primary regulator is now the OCC. The Bank continues to be subject to examinations by the CFPB with respect to consumer financial regulations. Under the National Bank Act and OCC regulations, certain capital transactions may be subject to the approval of the OCC. 

Stress Testing

As a result of the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s action on September 12, 2018 and the merger of the holding company into the Bank, the Bank is no longer considered a systemically important financial institution under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Bank has experienced greater flexibility in the active management of shareholders’ equity. The Bank continues to utilize stress testing as the primary mechanism to inform its decisions on the appropriate level of capital and capital actions, based upon actual and hypothetically-stressed economic conditions. The results of our internal stress tests are publicly available on the Bank's website. The timing and amount of capital actions will be subject to various factors, including the Bank's financial performance, business needs, prevailing and anticipated economic conditions, and OCC approval.

73
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Common Stock and Common Stock Repurchases

Common stock and additional paid-in capital decreased $1.1 billion, or 28%, from December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2019, primarily due to $1.1 billion of Bank common stock repurchases of 23.5 million shares from publicly announced plans at an average price of $46.80 per share.

The level of common stock repurchases we executed during 2019 will moderate in the near term as we approach our target capital amounts and ratios. The Bank expects to maintain the appropriate amount of capital to cover inherent risk, while distributing excess capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The timing and amount of additional common share repurchases will be subject to various factors, including the Bank's financial performance, business needs, prevailing economic conditions, and OCC approval. The magnitude, timing and form of capital return will be determined by the Board. Shares may be repurchased occasionally in the open market, through privately negotiated transactions, utilizing Rule 10b5-1 plans or otherwise. In February 2020, the Bank announced that the Board approved a plan to repurchase $75 million of common stock during the first quarter of 2020.

Schedule 36

CAPITAL DISTRIBUTIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Bank paid common dividends of $226 million, or $1.28 per share, during 2019, compared with $202 million, or$1.04 per share, during 2018. In February 2020, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of 0.34 per common share payable on February 20, 2020 to shareholders of record on February 13, 2020. We paid dividends on preferred stock of $34 million during both 2019 and 2018. See Note 14 for additional detail about capital management transactions during 2019.

Total shareholders’ equity decreased slightly and was $7.4 billion at December 31, 2019, compared with $7.6 billion at December 31, 2018. This decrease was primarily a result of $1.1 billion from repurchases of Bank common stock and $260 million from common and preferred dividends paid. These decreases were partially offset by net income of $816 million and $293 million from an increase in the fair value of our AFS securities due largely to changes in the interest rate environment

During 2017 through 2019, the market price of our common stock was higher than the exercise price of common stock warrants on our common stock and had a dilutive effect upon earnings per share. The exercise of the common stock warrants is cashless as the warrants are settled on a net share basis, and will increase average basic shares. The impact of the common stock warrants is already considered in the average dilutive shares. As of December 31, 2019, the Bank had 29.3 million ZIONW warrants outstanding with an exercise price of $33.91 which expire on May 22, 2020. During 2018, 1.8 million shares of common stock were issued from the cashless exercise of 5.8 million ZIONZ common stock warrants which expired on November 14, 2018. 

The following schedule presents the diluted shares from the remaining common stock warrants at various Zions Bancorporation, N.A. common stock market prices as of December 31, 2019, excluding the effect of changes in exercise cost and warrant share multiplier from the future payment of common stock dividends.

74
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Schedule 37

IMPACT OF COMMON STOCK WARRANTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our common stock warrants.

Basel III

The Bank is subject to Basel III capital requirements to maintain adequate levels of capital as measured by several regulatory capital ratios. We met all capital adequacy requirements under the Basel III Capital Rules as of December 31, 2019. The following schedule presents the Bank’s capital and performance ratios as of December 31, 2019, December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. The Supervision and Regulation section of the 2019 Form 10-K on page 6 and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contain more detail information about Basel III capital requirements and the Bank's compliance.

Schedule 38

CAPITAL AND PERFORMANCE RATIOS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1See “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations” on page 27 for more information regarding these ratios.

2Based on the applicable phase-in periods.

At December 31, 2019, Basel III regulatory tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital was $6.3 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively, compared with $6.8 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2018.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES

Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of the Bank’s significant accounting policies. Discussed below are certain significant accounting policies that we consider critical to the Bank’s financial statements. These critical accounting policies were selected because the amounts affected by them are significant to the financial statements. Any changes to these amounts, including changes in estimates, may also be significant to the financial statements. We believe that an understanding of these policies, along with the related estimates we are required to make in recording the financial transactions of the Bank, is important to have a complete picture of the 

75
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Bank’s financial condition. In addition, in arriving at these estimates, we are required to make complex and subjective judgments, many of which include a high degree of uncertainty. The following discussion of these critical accounting policies includes the significant estimates related to these policies. We have discussed each of these accounting policies and the related estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

We have included, where applicable in this document, sensitivity schedules and other examples to demonstrate the impact of the changes in estimates made for various financial transactions. The sensitivities in these schedules and examples are hypothetical and should be viewed with caution. Changes in estimates are based on variations in assumptions and are not subject to simple extrapolation, as the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in the amount of the estimate may not be linear. In addition, the effect of a variation in one assumption is in reality likely to cause changes in other assumptions, which could potentially magnify or counteract the sensitivities.

Fair Value Estimates 

We measure or monitor many of our assets and liabilities on a fair value basis. Fair value is the price that could be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. To increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements, GAAP has established a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the valuation inputs among (1) observable inputs that reflect quoted prices in active markets, (2) inputs other than quoted prices with observable market data, and (3) unobservable data such as the Bank’s own data or single dealer nonbinding pricing quotes.

When observable market prices are not available, fair value is estimated using modeling techniques such as discounted cash flow analysis. These modeling techniques use assumptions that market participants would consider in pricing the asset or the liability, including assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset, the life of the asset and applicable growth rate, the risk of nonperformance, and other related assumptions.

The selection and weighting of the various fair value techniques may result in a fair value higher or lower than the carrying value of the item being valued. Considerable judgment may be involved in determining the amount that is most representative of fair value.

For assets and liabilities recorded at fair value, the Bank’s policy is to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when developing fair value measurements for those items where there is an active market. In certain cases, when market observable inputs for model-based valuation techniques may not be readily available, the Bank is required to make judgments about the assumptions market participants would use in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument. The models used to determine fair value adjustments are regularly evaluated by management for relevance under current facts and circumstances.

Changes in market conditions may reduce the availability of quoted prices or observable data. For example, reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary market activities could result in observable market inputs becoming unavailable. When market data is not available, the Bank uses valuation techniques requiring more management judgment to estimate the appropriate fair value.

Fair value is used on a recurring basis for certain assets and liabilities in which fair value is the primary measure of accounting. Fair value is used on a nonrecurring basis to measure certain assets or liabilities (including HTM securities, loans held for sale, and OREO) for impairment or for disclosure purposes in accordance with current accounting guidance. 

Impairment analysis also relates to long-lived assets, goodwill, and core deposit and other intangible assets. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset is not likely to be recoverable and exceeds its fair value. In determining the fair value, management uses models and applies the techniques and assumptions previously discussed.

Investment securities are valued using several methodologies, which depend on the nature of the security, availability of current market information, and other factors. Investment securities in an unrealized loss position are 

76
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

formally reviewed on a quarterly basis for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”). OTTI is considered to have occurred if the instrument’s fair value is below its amortized cost and (1) we intend to sell the security, (2) it is “more likely than not” we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) the present value of expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis. The “more likely than not” criterion is a lower threshold than the “probable” criterion.

Notes 1, 3, 5, 7, and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the “Investment Securities Portfolio” on page 49 contain further information regarding the use of fair value estimates.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The ACL includes the ALLL and the RULC. The ALLL represents management’s estimate of probable losses believed to be inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance is based on periodic evaluations of the portfolios. This process includes both quantitative and qualitative analyses, as well as a qualitative review of the results. The qualitative review requires a significant amount of judgment, and is described in more detail in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The RULC provides for potential losses associated with off-balance sheet lending commitments and standby letters of credit. The reserve is estimated using the same procedures and methodologies as for the ALLL, plus assumptions regarding the probability and amount of unfunded commitments being drawn.

Although we believe that our processes for determining an appropriate level for the allowance adequately address the various components that could potentially result in credit losses, the processes and their elements include features that may be susceptible to significant change. Any unfavorable differences between the actual outcome of credit-related events and our estimates could require an additional provision for credit losses. As an example, if the probability of default risk grade for all pass-graded loans was immediately downgraded one grade on our internal risk-grading scale, the quantitatively determined amount of the ALLL at December 31, 2019 would increase by approximately $90 million. This sensitivity analysis is hypothetical and has been provided only to indicate the potential impact that changes in risk grades may have on the allowance estimate.

Although the qualitative process is subjective, it represents the Bank’s best estimate of qualitative factors impacting the determination of the ACL. We believe that given the procedures we follow in determining the ACL, the various components used in the current estimation processes are appropriate. Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Credit Risk Management” on page 54 contains further information and more specific descriptions of the processes and methodologies used to estimate the ACL.

On January 1, 2020, we adopted CECL and recorded an ACL for loans and leases of $526 million, resulting in an after-tax increase to retained earnings of $20 million. The impact of the adoption of CECL for our securities portfolio was less than $1 million. The ACL, as calculated under CECL, is influenced by the portfolio composition, credit quality, macroeconomic conditions, and forecasts at that time, as well as other management judgments. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 93 for more information on this guidance and its impact on the Bank.

Accounting for Goodwill 

Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value in the financial statements of a reporting unit at the time of its acquisition and is subsequently evaluated at least annually for impairment in accordance with current accounting guidance. We perform this test at the beginning of the fourth quarter annually, or more often if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of any of our reporting units, inclusive of goodwill, is less than fair value. The goodwill impairment test for a given reporting unit compares its fair value with its carrying value. If the carrying amount, inclusive of goodwill, is more likely than not to exceed its fair value, additional quantitative analysis must be performed to determine the amount, if any, of goodwill impairment. Our reporting units with goodwill are Amegy, CB&T, and Zions Bank.

To determine the fair value of a reporting unit, we historically have used a combination of up to three separate quantitative methods: comparable publicly-traded commercial banks in the Western and Southwestern states 

77
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(“Market Value”); where applicable, comparable acquisitions of commercial banks in the Western and Southwestern states (“Transaction Value”); and the discounted present value of management’s estimates of future cash flows. Critical assumptions that are used as part of these calculations include:

•Selection of comparable publicly-traded companies based on location, size, and business focus and composition;

•Selection of market comparable acquisition transactions based on location, size, business focus and composition, and date of the transaction;

•The discount rate, which is based on the Bank’s estimate of its cost of equity capital;

•The projections of future earnings and cash flows of the reporting unit;

•The relative weight given to the valuations derived by the three methods described; and

•The control premium associated with reporting units. 

We apply a control premium in the Market Value approach to determine the reporting units’ equity values. Control premiums represent the ability of a controlling shareholder to change how the Bank is managed and can cause the fair value of a reporting unit as a whole to exceed its market capitalization. Based on a review of historical bank acquisition transactions within the Bank’s geographic footprint, and a comparison of the target banks’ market values 30 days prior to the announced transaction to the deal value, we have determined that a control premium ranging from 0% to 15% for the reporting units was appropriate.

Since estimates are an integral part of the impairment computations, changes in these estimates could have a significant impact on any calculated impairment amount. Estimates include economic conditions, which impact the assumptions related to interest and growth rates, loss rates, and imputed cost of equity capital. The fair value estimates for each reporting unit incorporate current economic and market conditions, including Federal Reserve monetary policy expectations and the impact of legislative and regulatory changes. Additional factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition, loan losses, changes in growth trends, cost structures and technology, changes in equity market values and merger and acquisition valuations, and changes in industry conditions. 

Weakening in the economic environment, a decline in the performance of the reporting units, or other factors could cause the fair value of one or more of the reporting units to fall below carrying value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge. Additionally, new legislative or regulatory changes not anticipated in management’s expectations may cause the fair value of one or more of the reporting units to fall below the carrying value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge. Any impairment charge would not affect the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios, tangible common equity ratio, or liquidity position.

During the fourth quarter of 2017, we performed a full quantitative analysis of the reporting units’ fair value as described above. Our evaluation process determined that the fair values of Amegy, CB&T, and Zions Bank exceeded their carrying values by 35%, 54%, and 78%, respectively. Additionally, we performed a hypothetical sensitivity analysis on the discount rate assumption to evaluate the impact of an adverse change to this assumption. If the discount rate applied to future earnings was increased by 100 bps, the fair values of Amegy, CB&T, and Zions Bank would exceed their carrying values by 33%, 52%, and 72%, respectively.

During the fourth quarter of 2019, we performed our annual goodwill impairment evaluation, effective October 1, 2019. The Bank elected to perform a qualitative analysis to determine if the quantitative analysis performed in prior years as described above was required. The Bank’s qualitative analysis assessed factors related to each reporting unit to determine if it was more likely than not that the carrying value of any reporting unit was greater than the unit’s fair value. The qualitative factors considered in our assessment for each reporting unit included (1) economic, industry and market conditions, (2) regulatory or political developments that could negatively impact operating costs and overall financial performance of any of our specific reporting units, and (3) any changes in management, key personnel, strategy, customers, and any new or evolving litigation.

78
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

None of the factors considered in our qualitative assessment gave any indication that the reporting units’ fair values decreased during the 2019 fiscal year. Additionally, as evidenced in the Business Segment Analysis section of the MD&A, each reporting unit’s key performance metrics remained materially unchanged or improved in 2019, compared with 2017. Considering the improved performance of each reporting unit and the lack of any significant concerns being identified in our qualitative assessment, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit continues to be greater than its carry amount making further quantitative impairment testing unnecessary. As a result, none of our reporting units were subject to goodwill impairment during 2019 or were determined to be at risk for a potential goodwill impairment in the near future based on information known at this time.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS

Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses recently issued accounting pronouncements that we will be required to adopt. Also discussed is our expectation of the impact these new accounting pronouncements will have, to the extent they are material, on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK