Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

A significant portion of our revenue and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. In addition, our outstanding borrowings may be subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. We manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using certain financial instruments. These practices may change as economic conditions change.

Foreign exchange risk

Our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan, euro, and U.K. pound. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenue in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. 

Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. These contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. 

Our financial instrument holdings at December 31, 2019, were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. The fair values of these instruments were determined using Level 2 inputs. For additional details, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Significant Accounting Policies: Fair Value. The sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency forward-exchange contracts at December 31, 2019, indicates that if the U.S. dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $13 million, and if the U.S. dollar were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $17 million. For additional details, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 9C. Financial Instruments: Derivative Financial Instruments.

Interest rate risk

Our outstanding debt balances are predominantly fixed rate debt. While changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on our fixed rate debt, interest on our $300 million aggregate principal amount of 2018 Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2021, as well as interest on our commercial paper and revolving credit facility will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. Additionally, as of December 31, 2019, because we held certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed-interest obligations associated with our 3.9% Senior Notes due 2028, the fixed-rate interest payable on these senior notes effectively became variable based on LIBOR. At December 31, 2019, there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding and no outstanding principal balance under our revolving credit facility. 

By issuing the Floating-Rate Notes and by entering into the aforementioned swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon LIBOR. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our Consolidated Statements of Income. An interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. As of December 31, 2019, if LIBOR-based interest rates would have been higher by 100 basis points, the change would have increased our interest expense annually by approximately $4.5 million, as it relates to our fixed to floating interest rate swap agreements and floating-rate borrowings. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 9. Financial Instruments. 

58 |
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.