Exhibit   

Page 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Aimco Reports Fourth Quarter Results

Denver, Colorado, February 1, 2018 - Apartment Investment and Management Company (“Aimco”) (NYSE: AIV) announced today fourth quarter results for 2017.

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine comments: “2017 was a solid year for Aimco. Revenues were up, expenses were almost flat, and Aimco achieved NOI growth greater than 4% for the 7th year in a row. The quality of the Aimco portfolio improved through value created by our redevelopment and transaction activities, contributing to average revenue per apartment home of $2,123, up 7%.

“In 2018, we expect consumer demand for apartments to be strong, supported by favorable demographics and an accelerating economy. The diversification of the Aimco portfolio provides a hedge against elevated supply in some markets. We expect Aimco’s investment in redevelopment and development activities to increase Net Asset Value and to contribute future earnings growth.” 

Chief Financial Officer Paul Beldin adds: “2017 AFFO of $2.12 per share met the midpoint of our guidance range, Pro forma FFO of $2.45 per share was $0.01 ahead of the midpoint of guidance, and Same Store NOI growth was comfortably within our guidance range. The Aimco balance sheet is safe and strong with abundant liquidity and with minimal borrowings on our $600 million revolving credit facility.

“In 2018, Aimco expects earnings from our Same Store, Redevelopment and Other Real Estate portfolios to add $0.10 per share to AFFO. This earnings growth will be offset somewhat by lower earnings from the planned and continuing wind down of our Asset Management business and lower income tax benefits due to the recent tax law change. We anticipate Pro forma FFO per share in a range of $2.42 to $2.52 and AFFO per share in a range of $2.11 to $2.21.”

Financial Results: Full Year Pro forma FFO Up 6%; AFFO Up 8%

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Income (per diluted common share) - Year-over-year, fourth quarter net income increased primarily due to higher gains on the sale of apartment communities. 

Pro forma FFO (per diluted common share) - Aimco’s fourth quarter Pro forma FFO increased by $0.03 per share, or 5%, on a year-over-year basis. Property results contributed the following to Pro forma FFO:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•$0.01 from the lease-up over the last 12 months of more than 800 renovated homes at Redevelopment communities and completion of the lease-up of One Canal in Boston, Massachusetts and Indigo in Redwood City, California; offset by

•($0.03) lower Property Net Operating Income from apartment communities sold in 2016.

1

As compared to 2016, lower interest rates, higher transactional income, and other factors contributed an additional $0.03 to Pro forma FFO.

The results above exclude Property Net Operating Income from the second quarter reacquisition of the 47% interest in the Palazzo communities, which was largely offset by higher interest expense related to temporary borrowings used to fund the purchase.

Adjusted Funds from Operations (per diluted common share) - The $0.03 increase year-over-year in Pro forma FFO per share plus $0.03 in lower capital replacement spending due to fewer apartment homes increased AFFO per share by $0.06, or 12%.

Operating Results: Fourth Quarter Same Store NOI Up 3.1%; Full Year Up 4.2%

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Same Store Rental Rates - Aimco measures changes in rental rates by comparing, on a lease-by-lease basis, the rate on a newly executed lease to the rate on the expiring lease for that same apartment. Newly executed leases are classified either as a new lease, where a vacant apartment is leased to a new customer, or as a renewal. The table below details changes in new and renewal lease rates.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During fourth quarter, Aimco focused on increasing occupancy, resulting in a 30 basis point increase in Average Daily Occupancy as compared to the third quarter.

2

Redevelopment/Development

Aimco’s second line of business is the redevelopment and development of apartment communities. Aimco invests in this line of business when it believes the investment will yield risk-adjusted returns in excess of those expected from the apartment communities sold in paired trades to fund these construction projects. Aimco favors redevelopment because it permits adjustment of the scope and timing of spending to align with changing market conditions. Aimco also undertakes ground-up development of apartment communities when warranted by risk-adjusted investment returns.

During the fourth quarter, Aimco invested $51 million in redevelopment and development. In Center City, Philadelphia, Aimco completed de-leasing of and commenced construction on the fourth and final tower of Park Towne Place. Lease-up of this tower is scheduled to commence in the spring of 2018. At December 31, 2017, the first three towers combined were 89% leased with approximately 40 homes remaining to lease at the third tower in order to reach stabilized occupancy. 

As previously announced, Aimco is developing Parc Mosaic, a $117 million, 226 apartment home community located in Boulder, Colorado on the site of its former Eastpointe apartment community. During the fourth quarter, Aimco completed de-leasing of Eastpointe and commenced demolition and construction.

During the fourth quarter, Aimco leased 103 apartment homes at its redevelopment communities. At December 31, 2017, Aimco’s lease-up exposure at active redevelopment and development projects included approximately 611 apartment homes, 232 of which were in the fourth tower of Park Towne Place and 215 were in Parc Mosaic. 

Portfolio Management: Revenue Per Apartment Home Up 7% to $2,123

Aimco portfolio strategy seeks predictable rent growth from a portfolio of apartment communities that is diversified across “A,” “B” and “C+” price points, averaging “B/B+” in quality, and that is also diversified across the largest markets in the U.S. Please refer to the Glossary for a description of Aimco Portfolio Quality Ratings.

As part of its portfolio strategy, Aimco seeks to sell each year up to 10% of the apartment communities in its portfolio and to reinvest the proceeds from such sales in uses such as property upgrades, redevelopment of communities in its current portfolio, occasional development of new communities, and selective acquisitions of apartment communities with projected free cash flow returns higher than expected from the communities sold to fund the activity. Through this disciplined approach to capital recycling, Aimco has significantly increased the quality and expected growth rate of its portfolio.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3

Fourth Quarter Real Estate Portfolio - For its entire portfolio, Aimco’s average monthly revenue per apartment home was $2,123 for fourth quarter 2017, a 7% increase compared to fourth quarter 2016. This increase is due to year-over-year growth in Same Store revenue as well as Aimco’s second quarter reacquisition of the 47% interest in the Palazzo communities, lease-up of redevelopment and acquisition properties, and the sale of apartment communities with average monthly revenues per apartment home lower than those of the retained portfolio.

Dispositions - In the fourth quarter, Aimco sold five lower-rated apartment communities with 2,291 apartment homes for a gain of $298 million and gross proceeds of $397 million resulting in $381 million in net proceeds to Aimco. Two of these properties are affordable communities located in Washington, DC and Philadelphia, and three are located in southern New Jersey and southern Virginia. 

In January 2018, Aimco agreed to sell its interests in the entities owning the La Jolla Cove property in settlement of legal actions filed in 2014 by a group of disappointed buyers who had hoped to acquire the property. As a result of the settlement, Aimco recognized in its 2017 results a gross impairment loss of $35.8 million, $25.6 million of which relates to the establishment of a deferred tax liability assumed at acquisition. Upon closing of the transaction, the tax liability will be assumed by the buyer, resulting in no economic loss to Aimco. The remaining $10.2 million accounting loss is offset by cash distributions paid to Aimco during its ownership and avoided legal costs for continued litigation. 

On an economic basis, Aimco agreed to sell the entity at roughly its purchase price, adjusted for retained cash distributions and avoided legal costs.

Also in January 2018, Aimco sold three additional apartment communities with 513 apartment homes for a gain of approximately $50 million, net of tax, and gross proceeds of $72 million resulting in $65 million in net proceeds to Aimco. Two of these communities are located in southern Virginia and one is located in suburban Maryland.

Proceeds from the 2017 and 2018 sales were used to repay outstanding borrowings on Aimco’s revolving credit facility, effectively funding the equity portion of the Palazzo reacquisition as well as Aimco’s 2017 redevelopment and development activities.

Balance Sheet and Liquidity

Aimco Leverage

Aimco targets net leverage of $3.8 billion. As of the end of the year, Aimco’s leverage was above this target due to the timing of three apartment community sales discussed above, which closed in January 2018.

Non-recourse Property Debt - During the fourth quarter, Aimco closed or rate-locked two non-recourse, fixed-rate property loans totaling $189 million. On a weighted average basis, these loans have a 7.7 year term and an interest rate of 3.48%, 117 basis points above the corresponding treasury rates at the time of pricing. 

The net effect of 2017 property debt refinancing activities has been to lower Aimco’s weighted average fixed interest rates by about 20 basis points to 4.64%.

4

Aimco leverage includes Aimco’s share of long-term, non-recourse, property debt secured by apartment communities, a term loan, outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility, and outstanding preferred equity. Aimco leverage excludes non-recourse property debt obligations of consolidated partnerships served by its Asset Management business (described further in the Glossary). Please refer to Supplemental Schedule 5(a) for the presentation of Aimco leverage and a reconciliation of Aimco proportionate leverage to Aimco’s consolidated leverage.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Leverage Ratios

Aimco target leverage ratios are Proportionate Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA below 7.0x and Adjusted EBITDA to Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends greater than 2.5x. Aimco also focuses on the ratios of Proportionate Debt to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to Adjusted Interest Expense. Please see the Glossary for definitions of these non-GAAP measures and, where appropriate, reconciliations to the nearest GAAP measure.

Aimco calculates Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Interest Expense used in its leverage ratios based on current quarter amounts, annualized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Aimco’s leverage ratios have been adjusted on a pro forma basis to reflect the disposition of five apartment communities during the period as if the sales had closed on October 1, 2017. The effect of this pro forma adjustment may be found in the Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation in the Glossary.

Liquidity

At December 31, 2017, Aimco held cash and restricted cash of $95 million and had available capacity to borrow $521 million under its revolving credit facility, after consideration of outstanding borrowings of $67 million and $12 million of letters of credit backed by the facility. Aimco uses its credit facility primarily for working capital and other short-term purposes and to secure letters of credit.

Aimco also held unencumbered apartment communities with an estimated fair market value of approximately $1.8 billion at December 31, 2017.

5

Dividend - As previously announced, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.38 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended December 31, 2017. On an annualized basis, this represents an increase of 6% compared to the dividends paid during 2017. This dividend is payable on February 28, 2018, to stockholders of record on February 16, 2018.

2018 Outlook

The Aimco strategy remains unchanged: focusing on excellence in property operations; value creation through redevelopment and occasional development; portfolio management based on a disciplined approach to capital recycling; a safe, flexible balance sheet with abundant liquidity; and a simple business model executed by a performance-oriented and collaborative team. Aimco executes this consistent strategy with an eye on sustainable long-term growth.

Components of 2017 to 2018 AFFO Growth

(at the midpoint of guidance range)

Aimco expects 2018 Pro forma FFO per share in the range of $2.42 to $2.52 with AFFO per share of $2.11 to $2.21. At the guidance range midpoint, Aimco’s projected 2018 AFFO growth of 2% reflects:

•$0.14 per share growth from its core business of market-rate apartment ownership and Redevelopment and Development;

•$0.01 per share of growth from lower offsite costs and lower casualties; and

•income lost from apartment communities sold to fund redevelopment and development activity ($0.04 per share), lower tax benefits primarily from the effect of the recent tax law change ($0.04 per share), and planned lower income from the wind down of Aimco’s Asset Management business ($0.03 per share).

Aimco is engaged in litigation with Airbnb to protect Aimco’s property right to select its residents and their neighbors. Due the unpredictable nature of these cases and associated legal costs, Aimco will exclude such costs from 2018 Pro forma FFO and AFFO.

6

Aimco projects its Same Store portfolio to provide NOI growth in the range of 1.70% to 3.10%, resulting from revenue growth in the range of 2.10% to 3.10% and expense growth between 2.60% and 3.60%. At the midpoint, Aimco expects revenue growth of 2.60%, comprised of average daily occupancy 10 basis points higher than 2017 and lease rate growth of 2.50%, based on blended lease rates similar to 2017. At the midpoint, Aimco expects expenses to increase by 3.10%, of which 110 basis points is due to the increase in real estate taxes compared to 2017 taxes that were lowered by successful appeals, and higher property hazard insurance costs resulting from worldwide casualty events in 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Earnings Conference Call Information

Live Conference Call:Conference Call Replay:

Friday, February 2, 2018 at 1:00 p.m. ETReplay available until April 2, 2018

Domestic Dial-In Number: 1-888-317-6003Domestic Dial-In Number: 1-877-344-7529

International Dial-In Number: 1-412-317-6061International Dial-In Number: 1-412-317-0088

Passcode: 8442076Passcode: 10115141

Live webcast and replay: www.aimco.com/investors

Supplemental Information

The full text of this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information referenced in this release are available on Aimco’s website at www.aimco.com/investors.

Glossary & Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial and Operating Measures 

Financial and operating measures found in this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are measures not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). These measures are defined in the Glossary in the Supplemental Information and reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measures. 

About Aimco

Aimco is a real estate investment trust focused on the ownership and management of quality apartment communities located in select markets in the United States. Aimco is one of the country’s largest owners and operators of apartments, with ownership interests in 182 communities in 22 states and the District of Columbia. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV, and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at www.aimco.com.

Contact

Lynn Stanfield, Senior Vice President, Finance

Investor Relations 303-793-4661, investor@aimco.com

8

Forward-looking Statements

This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of first quarter and full year 2018 results, including but not limited to: FFO, Pro forma FFO and selected components thereof; AFFO; Aimco redevelopment/development investments and projected yield on such investments, timelines and Net Operating Income contribution; expectations regarding sales of Aimco apartment communities and the use of proceeds thereof; and Aimco liquidity and leverage metrics. 

These forward-looking statements are based on management’s judgment as of this date, which is subject to risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: Aimco’s ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rental rate and property operating results; the effect of acquisitions, dispositions, redevelopments and developments; Aimco’s ability to meet budgeted costs and timelines, and achieve budgeted rental rates related to Aimco redevelopments and developments; and Aimco’s ability to comply with debt covenants, including financial coverage ratios.

Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond Aimco’s control, including, without limitation: 

•Real estate and operating risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which Aimco operates and competition for residents in such markets; national and local economic conditions, including the pace of job growth and the level of unemployment; the amount, location and quality of competitive new housing supply; the timing of acquisitions, dispositions, redevelopments and developments; and changes in operating costs, including energy costs;

•Financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets’ financing; the risk that cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; and the risk that earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants;

•Insurance risks, including the cost of insurance, and natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; and

•Legal and regulatory risks, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of apartment communities presently or previously owned by Aimco. 

In addition, Aimco’s current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on Aimco’s ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. 

Readers should carefully review Aimco’s financial statements and the notes thereto, as well as the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Aimco’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

These forward-looking statements reflect management’s judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.

9

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Please see the following page for footnote descriptions

13

Supplemental Schedule 2 (continued) 

Funds From Operations and Adjusted Funds From Operations Information(page 2 of 2)

[1] Represents percentages readers may use to calculate Aimco share of the consolidated amounts presented, based on results for three months ended December 31, 2017. Aimco share of certain items may exceed 100% due to the inclusion of its share of unconsolidated partnership items, which are excluded from the consolidated amounts shown. On June 30, 2017, Aimco reacquired the 47% limited partner interest in the Palazzo joint venture. The three apartment communities held by the joint venture are included in Redevelopment/Development. The percentage that may be used for the year ended December 31, 2017 is 93.2%. Please refer to the discussion of Aimco Proportionate Financial Information in the Glossary for further information.

[2]Contribution from Real Estate consists of property net operating income and other items of income or expense that relate to this portfolio, including property management expenses, casualty losses, interest expense related to non-recourse property debt encumbering the communities in this portfolio, and interest income Aimco earns on its investment in a securitization trust that holds certain Aimco property debt. The communities included in the Real Estate portfolio are primarily market rate apartment communities. 

[3] In fourth quarter 2017, Aimco sold two affordable apartment communities located in Washington, DC and Philadelphia and three apartment communities located in suburban New Jersey and southern Virginia. Additionally, at December 31, 2017, Aimco had two apartment communities located in southern Virginia and one apartment community located in suburban Maryland, classified as held for sale, which were sold in January 2018. 

[4] Contribution from Asset Management includes: fees and other amounts paid to Aimco from the net operating income of partnerships that own low-income housing tax credit apartment communities less interest expense incurred on non-recourse property debt obligations of the partnerships; income associated with delivery of tax credits to the non-Aimco investors in the partnerships (including amounts received during the period and amounts received in previous periods); and other income less asset management expenses (including certain allocated offsite costs related to the operation of this business).

 Aimco estimates net asset value for its Asset Management business as the present value of the future cash flows Aimco expects to receive. Following repayment of such fees and other amounts due to Aimco, residual cash flows generally accrue to the non-Aimco limited partners. A multiple of 4.8x (which multiple may vary over time), may be applied to the annualized fourth quarter Contribution from Asset Management to arrive at Aimco’s estimate of net asset value of the Asset Management business.

[5] Other expense, net, which is not allocated to Real Estate or Asset Management generally consists of insurance expense and certain legal costs.

[6] Represents Aimco share of FFO and Pro forma FFO amounts of its unconsolidated communities and the noncontrolling interest partners’ share of such amounts for consolidated communities. These amounts are included in the calculated percentages shown for Aimco share of the consolidated amounts.

[7]In connection with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law December 2017, Aimco recognized a net income tax benefit, which Aimco has excluded from Pro forma FFO as further explained in the Glossary.

14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 15

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[1]Property net operating income for Sold and Held for Sale communities presented above reflects consolidated, or 100%, amounts and is included in the FFO related to sold and held for sale apartment communities lines on Supplemental Schedule 2.

[2]In fourth quarter 2017, Aimco sold two affordable apartment communities located in Washington, DC and Philadelphia and three apartment communities located in southern New Jersey and southern Virginia.

[3]At December 31, 2017, Aimco had two apartment communities located in southern Virginia and one apartment community located in suburban Maryland classified as held for sale, which were sold in January 2018.

 16

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Please refer to the Glossary for definitions of Real Estate, including each of the subcategories within Real Estate, and Asset Management.

17

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Aimco excludes the non-recourse property debt obligations of consolidated partnerships served by the Asset Management business from its net leverage calculations, because they are not Aimco’s obligations and have limited effect on the amount of fees and other payments Aimco expects to receive. This non-recourse debt begins maturing in 2020, with 26.0% of the balance at December 31, 2017 maturing after 2027.

[2]Represents the carrying amount of Aimco’s debt. At December 31, 2017, Aimco’s debt had a mark-to-market liability of $55.1 million. Aimco computed the fair value of its debt utilizing a Money-Weighted Average Interest Rate on its fixed-rate property debt of 4.09%, which rate takes into account the timing of amortization and maturities, and a market rate of 3.77% that considers the duration of the existing property debt using a similar lending source, the loan-to-value and coverage, as well as timing of amortization and maturities. 

[3]Preferred Equity is perpetual in nature; however, for illustrative purposes, Aimco has computed the weighted average of its total leverage assuming a 40-year maturity for its Preferred Equity.

[4]In 2011, $673.8 million of Aimco’s loans payable were securitized in a trust holding only these loans. Aimco purchased the subordinate positions in the trust that holds these loans for $51.5 million. These investments have a face value of $100.9 million and a carrying amount of $82.8 million, and are included in other assets (attributable to the Real Estate portfolio) on Aimco’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2017. The amount of these investments effectively reduces Aimco’s leverage.

[5]Please refer to the Glossary for discussion of Aimco’s leverage ratios, which are computed using Aimco share of debt, as well as reconciliations of the inputs to the calculation to the nearest GAAP measures. The calculation of Aimco’s leverage ratios have been adjusted to reflect the disposition of five apartments communities during the period as if the sales had closed on October 1, 2017, because the proceeds from these sales was used to reduce leverage prior to December 31, 2017. Please refer to the Glossary for additional information.

18

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]The securitized property loans mature in 2021, and will repay Aimco’s subordinate positions in the securitization trust, which reduces Aimco’s 2021 refunding requirements from $736.1 million to $635.3 million, or 18.4% of total non-recourse property debt outstanding at December 31, 2017.

19

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The financial information presented on this schedule is proportionate financial information and represents a disaggregation of Aimco’s Real Estate segment. Please refer to the Glossary for a reconciliation of the Same Store operating results shown above to Aimco’s measure of segment performance, Proportionate Property Net Operating Income.

 20

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The financial information presented on this schedule is proportionate financial information and represents a disaggregation of Aimco’s Real Estate segment. Please refer to the Glossary for a reconciliation of the Same Store operating results shown above to Aimco’s measure of segment performance, Proportionate Property Net Operating Income.

 21

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The financial information presented on this schedule is proportionate financial information and represents a disaggregation of Aimco’s Real Estate segment. Please refer to the Glossary for a reconciliation of the Same Store operating results shown above to Aimco’s measure of segment performance, Proportionate Property Net Operating Income.

 22

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Includes onsite payroll, repairs and maintenance, software and technology expenses, marketing, expensed turnover costs and other property related operating expenses.

[2]Aimco’s residents reimburse Aimco for the cost of utilities. These costs are included in rental and other property revenue on Aimco’s consolidated statements of operations. These reimbursements for the three months ended December 31, 2017, December 31, 2016 and September 30, 2017 were $5.2 million, $4.8 million, and $5.2 million, respectively, and for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $20.2 million and $20.0 million, respectively.

The operating expense information presented on this schedule is proportionate financial information and represents a disaggregation of Aimco’s Real Estate segment operating expenses. Please refer to the Glossary for a reconciliation of the total Same Store operating expense information shown above to Aimco’s measure of segment performance, Real Estate Proportionate Property Net Operating Income.

23

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Real Estate portfolio information presented above includes those apartment communities in which Aimco held an equity interest as of the end of each period presented. Aimco’s portfolio at December 31, 2017, included four communities owned by unconsolidated real estate partnerships. Aimco’s portfolio at December 31, 2016, included the same four communities owned by unconsolidated real estate partnerships and five apartment communities that have been sold.

 24

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Includes capital additions to Aimco’s Real Estate portfolio. This information is presented on a consolidated basis, which includes 100% of consolidated real estate partnership capital additions and excludes the capital additions made by unconsolidated real estate partnerships, which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Aimco’s share of capital additions for the year ended December 31, 2017 included $37.5 million of Capital Replacements, $16.9 million of Capital Improvements, $100.8 million of Property Upgrades, $153.6 million of Redevelopment, $14.2 million of Development, and $9.0 million of Casualty.

[2]Redevelopment spending in this schedule includes amounts for larger projects presented within Supplemental Schedule 10 and also includes spending related to other projects that are not presented in Supplemental Schedule 10.

[3]For the three months and year ended December 31, 2017, capital additions for Aimco’s Real Estate portfolio include $1.7 million and $7.6 million of capitalized interest costs, respectively. 

27

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Redevelopments provide Aimco with the flexibility to align the timing of the completed apartment homes with market demand. As such, expected occupancy stabilization and expected NOI stabilization dates may change as market conditions evolve.

[2]This phase of redevelopment encompasses common area, amenity improvements, the creation of a new retail space and residential homes on one floor.

[3]In response to market conditions, during the third quarter, Aimco decided to pause redevelopment activities pertaining to apartment homes and will reassess an appropriate time to resume such activity. Redevelopment of common areas, such as corridors, is ongoing and expected to be complete during the first quarter 2018. 

[4]This phase of the redevelopment encompasses common areas and security system upgrades. 

[5]

In response to market conditions, during third quarter, Aimco decided to pause redevelopment activities and will reassess an appropriate time to resume redevelopment activity.

See the following pages for Terms and Definitions and a Description of Redevelopment Projects.

 28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 29

Supplemental Schedule 10 (Continued)              

Redevelopment/Development Portfolio       (Page 3 of 4)

Terms and Definitions   

Estimated Net Investment - represents total estimated investment, net of tax and other credits earned by Aimco as a direct result of its redevelopment or development of the community. Total estimated investment includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to redevelop or develop the respective community, as determined in accordance with GAAP. 

Expected Occupancy Stabilization - period in which Aimco expects to achieve stabilized occupancy (greater than 90%).

Expected NOI Stabilization - period in which Aimco expects to achieve stabilized rents and operating costs, generally five quarters after Stabilized Occupancy.

Average Revenue per Apartment Home Redeveloped or Constructed - represents the actual revenues per apartment home, which includes rents and other rental income, prior to redevelopment, and the projected revenues per apartment home following redevelopment or construction, excluding rent and other rental income from commercial leases (which are presented separately on page 1 of this schedule). Projections of stabilized revenues per apartment home are based on management’s judgment at the start of a redevelopment or development project. These projections consider factors including but not limited to: current rent; other rental income expectations; and revenue achievement to date as compared to current market rents.

Pre-redevelopment Proportionate Property NOI - estimated by applying (a) market revenue and expense growth rates derived from third-party information for the period immediately preceding construction through the current period to (b) Proportionate Property NOI results immediately preceding construction.

Projected Net Operating Income Yield on Incremental Investment at Stabilization - for redevelopment projects, represents projected stabilized incremental net operating income (including commercial lease income) as a percentage of the Estimated Net Investment. Projected incremental net operating income for redevelopment projects includes the estimated stabilized rate increase that is expected to be achieved and the estimated expense savings resulting from the redevelopment. For development projects, this represents projected stabilized net operating income as a percentage of the Estimated Net Investment. 

Occupancy Stabilized Communities - includes communities classified as part of Redevelopment/Development for which construction has been completed, but for which the requirements to be reclassified into Same Store have not yet been met. Please refer to the definition of Same Store in the Glossary.

Communities Under Construction or in Lease-up - represents communities classified as part of Redevelopment/Development and included in Supplemental Schedule 10, as well as other communities classified as Redevelopment/Development that are smaller in scope and therefore not included in Supplemental Schedule 10.

 30

Supplemental Schedule 10 (Continued) 

Redevelopments/Development Project Summaries(Page 4 of 4)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 31

GLOSSARY AND RECONCILIATIONS OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES

This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial and operating measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Aimco’s definitions and calculations of these non-GAAP financial and operating measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. These non-GAAP financial and operating measures should not be considered an alternative to GAAP net income or any other GAAP measurement of performance and should not be considered an alternative measure of liquidity. 

AIMCO OP: AIMCO Properties, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, is the operating partnership in Aimco’s UPREIT structure. Aimco owns approximately 96% of the common partnership units of the Aimco OP.

AIMCO PROPORTIONATE FINANCIAL INFORMATION: Within this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information, Aimco provides certain financial information necessary to calculate Aimco’s share of financial information. This information is not, nor is it intended to be, a presentation in accordance with GAAP. Aimco’s proportionate share of financial information includes Aimco’s share of unconsolidated real estate partnerships and excludes the noncontrolling interest partners’ share of consolidated real estate partnerships. 

Aimco does not control the unconsolidated real estate partnerships and the calculation of Aimco’s share of the assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses does not represent a legal claim to a proportionate share of such items. The amount of cash distributions partners in such partnerships may receive is based upon specific provisions in the partnership agreements and may vary based on whether such distributions are generated from operations, capital events or liquidation. 

Proportionate information benefits the users of Aimco’s financial information by providing the amount of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other items attributable to Aimco stockholders. Other companies may calculate their proportionate information differently than Aimco does, limiting the usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, the non-GAAP Aimco proportionate financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for information included in Aimco’s financial statements as reported under GAAP.

ASSET MANAGEMENT: Asset Management refers generally to the activities Aimco performs in its role as general partner in partnerships holding low-income housing tax credit apartment communities, and which are structured to provide for the pass-through of tax credits and deductions to their partners. Aimco holds nominal ownership positions in these partnerships, generally less than 1%. In its role, Aimco provides asset management and other services to these partnerships and receives fees and other payments in return. To the extent the amounts due Aimco are not paid currently, the balances accrue and are satisfied from the partnerships’ future operating or liquidating cash flow. Aimco also recognizes tax credit income as the tax credits and tax deductions are delivered to the partners and is generally responsible for ensuring the underlying apartment communities comply with the requirements to earn low-income housing tax credits. Aimco’s relationship with these partnerships is different than real estate ownership and is better described as an Asset Management business. Aimco has limited upside or downside exposure. Aimco values the Asset Management business based on the discounted future cash flows it expects to receive. 

Aimco consolidates most of these partnerships and their underlying apartment communities under GAAP. Aimco’s share of the results of operations of these apartment communities was approximately 95% at 

32

December 31, 2017 (inclusive of unconsolidated communities) and represents cash flows from operations that are currently available to pay fees and other amounts due under the contractual agreements. 

Under the tax credit agreements, Aimco will receive additional semi-annual cash contributions totaling $10.1 million through 2019. As of December 31, 2017, Aimco also had $4.7 million of net unamortized deferred income related to cash contributions previously received by Aimco in exchange for the allocation of tax credits and related tax benefits to investors in tax credit arrangements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

AVERAGE AGE OF APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Calculated by Aimco on a property-by-property basis based on the year the community was originally built, adjusted for redevelopment and/or other major capital improvements that effectively reduce the age of the community. Such investments include construction of new buildings and/or amenities, replacement or modernization of mechanical, plumbing and electrical systems and other investments that are consequential in nature. 

CAPITAL ADDITIONS DEFINITIONS

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI includes all non-Redevelopment capital additions that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.

CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): Unlike CI, CR does not increase the useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. CR represents the portion of capital additions that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR is deducted in the calculation of AFFO.

CASUALTY CAPITAL ADDITIONS: Casualty capital additions represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with the restoration of an asset after a casualty event such as a hurricane, tornado, flood or fire.

PROPERTY UPGRADES: Property Upgrades may include kitchen and bath remodeling; energy conservation projects; and investments in longer-lived materials designed to reduce turnover costs, such as simulated wood flooring and granite countertops. Property Upgrades differ from Redevelopment Additions in that they are generally lesser in scope and do not significantly disrupt property operations.

REDEVELOPMENT ADDITIONS: Redevelopment additions represent capital additions intended to enhance the value of the apartment community through the ability to generate higher average rental rates. Redevelopment additions may include costs related to entitlement, which enhance the value of a community through increased density, and costs related to renovation of exteriors, common areas or apartment homes.

DEVELOPMENT ADDITIONS: Development additions represent construction and related capitalized costs associated with ground-up development projects.

33

CONTRIBUTION FROM ASSET MANAGEMENT: As presented in Supplemental Schedule 2, Contribution from Asset Management consists of fees and other amounts paid to Aimco from the net operating income of partnerships that own low-income housing tax credit apartment communities less interest expense incurred on non-recourse property-level debt obligations of the partnerships; income associated with delivery of tax credits to the non-Aimco investors in the partnerships (including amounts received during the period and amounts received in previous periods); and other income; less asset management expenses (including certain allocated offsite costs related to the operation of this business).

CONTRIBUTION FROM REAL ESTATE: As presented in Supplemental Schedule 2, Contribution from Real Estate consists of property net operating income and other items of income or expense that relate to the Real Estate portfolio, including property management expenses, casualty losses, interest expense related to non-recourse property debt encumbering these communities, and interest income Aimco earns on its investment in a securitization trust that holds certain Aimco property debt. 

FREE CASH FLOW: Free Cash Flow, as calculated for Aimco’s retained portfolio, represents an apartment community’s property net operating income, less spending for Capital Replacements. Capital Replacement spending is a measure of the cost of capital asset used during the period. Aimco believes that Free Cash Flow is useful to investors as a supplemental measure of apartment community performance because it takes into consideration costs incurred during the period to replace capital assets that have been consumed during Aimco’s ownership. 

FREE CASH FLOW CAP RATE: Free Cash Flow Cap Rate represents the NOI Cap Rate, adjusted for assumed Capital Replacements spending of $1,200 per apartment home.

FREE CASH FLOW MARGIN: Free Cash Flow Margin represents an apartment community’s property net operating income less $1,200 per apartment home of assumed annual Capital Replacement spending, as a percentage of the apartment community’s rental and other property revenues.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO): FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance, which the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of, and impairment losses recognized with respect to, depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT.

In addition to FFO, Aimco uses PRO FORMA FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (Pro forma FFO) and ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO) to measure performance. Pro forma FFO represents FFO as defined above, excluding preferred equity redemption related amounts (adjusted for noncontrolling interests). Preferred equity redemption related amounts (gains or losses) are items that periodically affect net income attributable to Aimco common stockholders computed in accordance with GAAP. Aimco excludes preferred equity redemption related amounts (gains or losses) from its computation of Pro forma FFO because such amounts are not representative of operating performance. 

Additionally in 2017, Aimco recognized a net tax benefit associated with the December 2017 tax reform legislation consisting of a benefit related to the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities of Aimco’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, partially offset by a valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets. Aimco excluded the revaluation from its computation of Pro forma FFO because this type of tax benefit occurs infrequently and is not representative of Aimco’s operating performance.

AFFO represents Pro forma FFO reduced by Capital Replacements (also adjusted for noncontrolling interests) and is Aimco’s primary measure of current period performance. 

34

FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO are non-GAAP measures that Aimco believes are helpful to investors in understanding Aimco’s performance because they capture features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than other capital assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO should not be considered alternatives to net income (loss) as determined in accordance with GAAP, as indicators of performance. There can be no assurance that Aimco’s method of computing FFO, Pro forma FFO or AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.

The following table reconciles GAAP net income per share to Pro forma FFO per share and AFFO per share, each as presented at the mid-point of Aimco’s guidance:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LEVERAGE RATIO DEFINITIONS

Aimco’s leverage strategy targets the ratio of Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA to be below 7.0x and the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to Adjusted Interest and Preferred Dividends to be greater than 2.5x. Aimco also focuses on the ratios of Debt to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Coverage of Adjusted Interest. Aimco believes these ratios, which are based in part on non-GAAP financial information, are commonly used by investors and analysts to assess the relative financial risk associated with balance sheets of companies within the same industry, and they are believed to be similar to measures used by rating agencies to assess entity credit quality.

Aimco leverage includes Aimco’s share of long-term, non-recourse property debt secured by apartment communities in the Real Estate portfolio, a one-year term loan, outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit facility, and outstanding preferred equity. Aimco leverage excludes non-recourse property debt obligations of consolidated partnerships served by the Asset Management business (described further under the Asset Management definition, above). The value of the Asset Management business is attributed to the fees paid to Aimco from the operation and liquidation of the underlying partnerships, and the non-recourse property debt obligations of the partnerships in this business are not Aimco’s obligations and have limited effect on the amount of fees and other amounts Aimco expects to receive under the contractual agreements. Aimco reconciles consolidated balances to Aimco’s net leverage on Supplemental Schedule 5(a). 

Aimco calculates its leverage ratios based on current quarter amounts, annualized. 

As described further in the Leverage Ratios discussion in the Earnings Release and in Supplemental Schedule 5(a), Aimco adjusted its fourth quarter leverage ratios to reflect the disposition of five apartment communities during the period as if the sales had closed on October 1, 2017, because the proceeds from these sales were used to reduce leverage as of December 31, 2017. 

35

ADJUSTED EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION (ADJUSTED EBITDA): Adjusted EBITDA represents Aimco’s share of the consolidated amount of Aimco net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of the following items for the reasons set forth below:

•Adjusted Interest Expense, defined below, to allow investors to compare a measure of Aimco’s earnings before the effects of Aimco’s indebtedness with that of other companies in the real estate industry;

•preferred dividends, to allow investors to compare a measure of Aimco’s earnings before the effects of Aimco’s capital structure and indebtedness with that of other companies in the real estate industry;

•income taxes, to allow investors to measure Aimco’s performance independent of income taxes, which may vary significantly from other companies within Aimco’s industry due to leverage and tax planning strategies, among other factors;

•depreciation and amortization, gains or losses on dispositions and impairment losses related to real estate, for similar reasons to those set forth in the discussion of FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO above; and 

•other items, including gains on dispositions of non-depreciable assets, as these are items that periodically affect Aimco operations, but that are not necessarily representative of Aimco’s ability to service its debt obligations.

A reconciliation of net income attributable to Aimco Common Stockholders to Adjusted EBITDA for Aimco’s Real Estate portfolio for the three months ended December 31, 2017 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ADJUSTED INTEREST EXPENSE: Adjusted Interest Expense represents Aimco’s proportionate share of interest expense on non-recourse property debt encumbering Real Estate apartment communities and interest on the credit facility borrowings less (i) prepayment penalties and amortization of debt issuance costs and (ii) the amount of interest income recognized by Aimco related to its investment in the subordinated tranches in a securitization trust holding primarily Aimco property debt. Adjusted Interest Expense also excludes interest expense related to non-recourse property debt obligations of consolidated partnerships served by the Asset Management business. 

36

Adjusted Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends as used in the leverage ratios on Supplemental Schedule 5(a) are calculated as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO: As defined by Aimco’s credit agreement, the ratio of (a) EBITDA to (b) fixed charges, which represent the sum of (i) Aimco’s proportionate share of interest expense (excluding prepayment penalties and amortization of debt issuance costs), (ii) debt amortization and (iii) Preferred Dividends, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation. The calculation of certain of these measures as defined by Aimco’s Credit Agreement may differ from those used by Aimco in the calculations of its Leverage Ratios.

PREFERRED DIVIDENDS: Preferred dividends include dividends paid with respect to Aimco’s Preferred Stock and the Aimco OP’s Preferred Partnership Units, exclusive of preferred equity redemption related amounts.

PREFERRED EQUITY: Preferred equity represents the redemption amounts for Aimco’s Preferred Stock and the Aimco OP’s Preferred Partnership Units and may be found in Aimco’s consolidated balance sheets and on Supplemental Schedule 5(b).

PROPORTIONATE DEBT TO ADJUSTED EBITDA RATIO: The ratio of (a) Aimco’s share of net leverage as calculated on Supplemental Schedule 5(a) and shown above, excluding Preferred Equity to (b) Adjusted EBITDA.

PROPORTIONATE DEBT AND PREFERRED EQUITY TO ADJUSTED EBITDA RATIO: The ratio of (a) Aimco’s share of net leverage attributable to its Real Estate portfolio as calculated on Supplemental Schedule 5(a) and shown above to (b) Adjusted EBITDA.

NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI) CAP RATE: NOI Cap Rate is calculated based on Aimco’s share of the proportionate property NOI for the trailing twelve months prior to sale , less a 3% management fee, divided by Aimco gross proceeds.

NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI) MARGIN: Represents an apartment community’s net operating income as a percentage of the apartment community’s rental and other property revenues.

37

OTHER EXPENSES, NET: Other expenses, net includes franchise taxes, risk management activities related to Aimco’s unconsolidated partnerships and certain other corporate expenses and expenses specifically related to Aimco’s administration of its real estate partnerships, for example, services such as audit, tax and legal. 

PROPERTY NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI) and PROPORTIONATE PROPERTY NOI: NOI is defined by Aimco as total property rental and other property revenues less direct property operating expenses, including real estate taxes. NOI does not include: property management revenues, primarily from affiliates; casualties; property management expenses; depreciation; or interest expense. NOI is helpful because it helps both investors and management to understand the operating performance of real estate excluding costs associated with decisions about acquisition pricing, overhead allocations and financing arrangements. NOI is also considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of real estate. Reconciliations of NOI as presented in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information to Aimco’s consolidated GAAP amounts are provided below. 

Due to the diversity of its economic ownership interests in its apartment communities in the periods presented, Aimco evaluates the performance of the apartment communities in its Real Estate segment using Proportionate Property NOI, which represents Aimco’s share of the NOI for the apartment communities that Aimco consolidates and manages but excludes apartment communities that it does not consolidate. Reconciliation of the Same Store Proportionate Property NOI presented on Supplemental Schedule 6 and the Redevelopment/Development Proportionate Property NOI presented on Supplemental Schedule 10 to the Real Estate segment Proportionate Property NOI has been provided below. Additionally, Real Estate segment Proportionate Property NOI has been further reconciled to Real Estate net operating income as shown on Supplemental Schedule 2 and income before gain on dispositions per the consolidated statements of operations.

38

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Proportionate Property NOI for Aimco’s Real Estate reportable segment includes proportionate and other adjustments, primarily to remove the results of operations of a consolidated property not managed by Aimco, which are included in Real Estate net operating income as presented on Supplemental Schedule 2. Corporate and other amounts not allocated to Real Estate represents the adjustment necessary to reconcile Real Estate net operating income to the nearest GAAP measure, income before gain on dispositions. This adjustment includes operating results of apartment communities sold during the periods shown or held for sale at the end of the period and the operating results of apartment communities owned by consolidated partnerships served by Aimco’s Asset Management business. This amount also includes property management revenues and expenses, depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses, other operating expenses, interest expense and income tax benefit, which are not included in Real Estate Proportionate Property NOI. 

39

PORTFOLIO QUALITY RATINGS: Aimco measures the quality of apartment communities in its Real Estate portfolio based on average rents of our apartment homes compared to local market average rents as reported by a third-party provider of commercial real estate performance and analysis. Under this rating system, Aimco classifies as “A” quality apartment communities those earning rents greater than 125% of the local market average, as “B” quality apartment communities those earning rents between 90% and 125% of the local market average; “C+” quality apartment communities those earning rents greater than $1,100 per month, but lower than 90% of the local market average; and “C” quality apartment communities those earning rents less than $1,100 per month and lower than 90% of the local market average. 

REAL ESTATE: Real Estate represents Aimco’s portfolio of apartment communities diversified by both price point and geography. Real Estate includes predominantly market rate apartment communities in which Aimco holds substantial equity ownership interest, generally 100%. Aimco’s Real Estate portfolio is classified into four categories, as follows:

SAME STORE: Same Store apartment communities are apartment communities that (a) are owned and managed by Aimco, (b) had reached a stabilized level of operations as of January 1, 2016 and maintained it throughout the current and the comparable prior periods and (c) are not expected to be sold within 12 months.

ACQUISITION: Includes apartment communities acquired since January 1, 2016.

REDEVELOPMENT/DEVELOPMENT: Includes apartment communities currently under construction that have not achieved a stabilized level of operations and those that have been completed in recent years that had not achieved and maintained stabilized operations for both the current and the comparable prior periods. 

OTHER REAL ESTATE: Real Estate apartment communities that do not meet the Same Store, Acquisition or Redevelopment/Development definitions.

SOLD AND HELD FOR SALE APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Apartment communities either sold since January 1, 2016, or classified as held for sale at the end of the period. For purposes of highlighting results of operations related to Aimco’s retained portfolio, results for Sold and Held For Sale Apartment Communities are excluded from property net operating income and presented separately for Real Estate and Asset Management on a net basis on Supplemental Schedule 2. Information about property net operating income for Sold and Held For Sale Apartment Communities may be found on Supplemental Schedule 3(b).

40