UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 

of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): February 20, 2018 

Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) 

Delaware 

(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

5301 Legacy Drive, Plano, Texas 75024 

(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code) 972-673-7000 

(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) N/A 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( see General Instruction A.2. below): 

o Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

x Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company o 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o 

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure 

On February 20, 2018, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. ("Dr Pepper Snapple") (NYSE: DPS) and Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. ("Keurig") announced that they will host an investor event at Keurig’s office in Burlington, Massachusetts, on March 20, 2018. Bob Gamgort, Chief Executive Officer of Keurig, Larry Young, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dr Pepper Snapple, and other executive leaders will provide a business overview and articulate the strategy and significant growth potential for Keurig Dr Pepper ("KDP") upon consummation of the previously announced proposed merger of Dr Pepper Snapple and Maple Parent Holdings Corp., the parent of Keurig. 

In-person attendance for this event is by invitation only. The companies also invite interested parties to join the event by webcast. The event will be webcast live beginning at approximately 9 a.m. (EDT) through an audio and slide presentation accessible live on the DPS website at http://www.drpeppersnapple.com; it will be archived for replay.  

Forward Looking Statements 

Certain statements made during the investor event may be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “expect,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “feel,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and similar words, phrases or expressions and variations or negatives of these words, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements regarding the estimated or anticipated future results of the combined company following the proposed merger, the anticipated benefits of the proposed merger, including estimated synergies, the expected timing of completion of the proposed merger and related transactions and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are based on the current expectations of Maple Parent Holdings Corp. (the parent company of Keurig Green Mountain) and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. management and are not predictions of actual performance.  

These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties regarding the combined company’s business and the proposed merger and actual results may differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: (i) the ability of the parties to successfully complete the proposed merger on anticipated terms and timing, including obtaining required shareholder and regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions to the completion of the proposed merger, (ii) access to significant debt financing for the proposed merger on a timely basis and reasonable terms and the impact such significant additional debt may have on our ability to operate the combined business following the proposed merger, (iii) risks relating to the integration of the Maple Parent Holdings Corp. and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. operations, products and employees into the combined company and the possibility that the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the proposed merger will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected timeframe and (iv) risks relating to the businesses of Maple Parent Holdings Corp. and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. and the industries in which they operate and the combined company will operate following the proposed merger. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties, will be more fully discussed in a proxy statement that will be filed by Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the proposed merger. While the list of factors presented here is, and the list of factors to be presented in the proxy statement are, considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.  

2 

Any forward-looking statement made herein speaks only as of the date of this document. Neither Maple Parent Holdings Corp. nor Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. is under any obligation to, and each expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or otherwise, except as required by applicable laws or regulations. 

Important Additional Information  

This communication is being made in respect of the proposed transaction involving Maple Parent Holdings Corp. and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. The proposed transaction will be submitted to the stockholders of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. for their consideration. In connection therewith, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. intends to file relevant materials with the SEC, including a preliminary proxy statement and a definitive proxy statement. The definitive proxy statement will be mailed to the stockholders of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING OR ANY INVESTMENT DECISION, INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the proxy statement, any amendments or supplements thereto and other documents containing important information about Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. once such documents are filed with the SEC, through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. will be available free of charge on Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc.’s website at https://www.drpeppersnapplegroup.com/ under the heading “SEC Filings and Proxy Statements” within the “Investors” portion of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc.’s website. Stockholders of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. may also obtain a free copy of the definitive proxy statement by contacting Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc.’s Investor Relations Department at (972) 673-7000.  

Maple Parent Holdings Corp., Bob Gamgort (Director and Chief Executive Officer of Maple Parent Holdings Corp.), Ozan Dokmecioglu (Chief Financial Officer of Maple Parent Holdings Corp.), Bart Becht (a Director of Maple Parent Holdings Corp.) may be deemed to be “participants” under SEC rules in any solicitation of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. stockholders in respect of a Maple Parent Holdings Corp. proposal for a transaction with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc.. Neither Maple Parent Holdings Corp. nor any of the individuals listed above has a direct or indirect interest, by security holdings or otherwise, in Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. or the matters to be acted upon in connection with a potential transaction involving Maple Parent Holdings Corp. and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., except as will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement regarding the proposed transaction.  

Item 8.01 Other Events 

The information set forth under item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference. 

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits 

(d) Exhibits 

99.1 Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. and Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. Press Release dated February 20, 2018 -- "Dr Pepper Snapple Group and Keurig Green Mountain Announce Timing of Investor Event". 

3 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Dated: February 21, 2018 

4