Exhibit   

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

KLA-TENCOR REPORTS FISCAL 2018 SECOND QUARTER RESULTS

MILPITAS, Calif., January 25, 2018 -KLA-Tencor Corporation (NASDAQ: KLAC) today announced operating results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2018, which ended on December 31, 2017, and reported GAAP net loss of $(134) million and GAAP loss per diluted share of $(0.86) on revenues of $976 million.

“KLA-Tencor reported a record quarter in December 2017, delivering new quarterly highs in shipments, revenues, gross margin, and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share in the period. Full year results in calendar 2017 also set records for each of these metrics, as well as in free cash flow generation,” commented Rick Wallace, President and Chief Executive Officer of KLA-Tencor. “These outstanding results demonstrate the dedication that runs throughout our organization to serving our customers and delivering results to our stockholders, as well as the long-term value generated in successful execution of the Company’s strategic objectives.” 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A reconciliation between GAAP operating results and non-GAAP operating results is provided following the financial statements included in this release. Non-GAAP results include the impact of stock-based compensation, but exclude the impact of acquisitions, restructuring, severance, merger and other related charges and certain discrete tax items. KLA-Tencor will discuss the results for its fiscal year 2018 second quarter, along with its outlook, on a conference call today beginning at 3:00 p.m. Pacific Time. A webcast of the call will be available at: www.kla-tencor.com.

About KLA-Tencor:

KLA-Tencor Corporation, a leading provider of process control and yield management solutions, partners with customers around the world to develop state-of-the-art inspection and metrology technologies. These technologies serve the semiconductor and other related nanoelectronics industries. With a portfolio of industry-standard products and a team of world-class engineers and scientists, the company has created superior solutions for its customers for more than 40 years. Headquartered in Milpitas, Calif., KLA-Tencor has dedicated customer operations and service centers around the world. Additional information may be found at http://www.kla-tencor.com. (KLAC-F)

1

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information: 

The non-GAAP and supplemental information provided in this press release is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, KLA-Tencor’s financial results presented in accordance with United States GAAP.

To supplement KLA-Tencor’s condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, the company provides certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses (benefits), as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of KLA-Tencor’s operating performance and its prospects in the future. Specifically, KLA-Tencor believes that the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to KLA-Tencor’s financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses (benefits) that the company believes are not indicative of its core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. However, because there are no standardized or generally accepted definitions for most non-GAAP financial metrics, definitions of non-GAAP financial metrics (for example, determining which costs and expenses (benefits) to exclude when calculating such a metric) are inherently subject to significant discretion. As a result, non-GAAP financial metrics may be defined very differently from company to company, or even from period to period within the same company, which can potentially limit the usefulness of such information to an investor. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.

2

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4

KLA-Tencor Corporation 

Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Cash Flows

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

KLA-Tencor Corporation

Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Supplemental Information

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pre-tax impact of items included in Condensed Consolidated Unaudited Statements of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide certain non-GAAP financial information, which is adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain costs and expenses, as well as other supplemental information. The non-GAAP and supplemental information is provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects in the future. Specifically, we believe that the non-GAAP information provides useful measures to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial performance by excluding certain costs and expenses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. The non-GAAP information is among the budgeting and planning tools that management uses for future forecasting. However, because there are no standardized or generally accepted definitions for most non-GAAP financial metrics, definitions of non-GAAP financial metrics (for example, determining which costs and expenses to exclude when calculating such a metric) are inherently subject to significant discretion. As a result, non-GAAP financial metrics may be defined very differently from company to company, or even from period to period within the same company, which can potentially limit the usefulness of such information to an investor. The presentation of non-GAAP and supplemental information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared and presented in accordance with United States GAAP.

a.Acquisition-related charges include amortization of intangible assets and inventory fair value adjustments, and transaction costs associated with acquisitions. Management believes that the expense associated with the amortization of acquisition related intangible assets and acquisition related costs are appropriate to be excluded because a significant portion of the purchase price for acquisitions may be allocated to intangible assets that have short lives, and exclusion of these expenses allows comparisons of operating results that are consistent over time for both KLA-Tencor’s newly acquired and long-held businesses. Management believes excluding these items helps investors compare our operating performances with our results in prior periods as well as with the performance of other companies.

b.Merger-related charges associated with the terminated merger agreement between KLA-Tencor and Lam Research Corporation (“Lam”) primarily includes employee retention-related expenses, legal expenses and other costs. Management believes that it is appropriate to exclude these items as they are not indicative of ongoing operating results and therefore limit comparability and excluding these items helps investors compare our operating performance with our results in prior periods as well as with the performance of other companies.

c.Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments includes the income tax effects of the excluded items noted above. Management believes that it is appropriate to exclude the tax effects of the items noted above in order to present a more meaningful measure of non-GAAP net income.

d.Discrete tax item during the three months ended December 31, 2017 includes the income tax effects of an income tax expense from the enacted tax reform legislation through the Tax Cuts and Jobs-Act (“the Act”), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, of which the impact is primarily related to the provisional tax amounts recorded for the transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings and the re-measurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the enactment of the Act. Discrete tax item during the three months ended December 31, 2016 include the tax impact of certain merger-related charges that only became deductible during the three months ended December 31, 2016 as a result of the termination of the proposed merger between KLA-Tencor and Lam. Management believes that it is appropriate to exclude these items as they are not indicative of ongoing operating results and therefore limit comparability. Management believes excluding these items helps investors compare our operating performance with our results in prior periods as well as with the performance of other companies.

7