EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mondelēz International Outlines Priorities  

and Reaffirms Outlook at CAGNY  

BOCA RATON, Fla. – Feb. 20, 2018 – At the Consumer Analyst Group of New York (CAGNY) conference today, executives of Mondelēz International highlighted the company’s priorities for the year, including delivering its 2018 business plan with excellence and completing a comprehensive strategic business review designed to deliver sustainable shareholder value in the years to come.  

Chief Executive Officer Dirk Van de Put outlined several areas of focus that will be important as the company develops its future strategic framework: putting consumers first, leveraging Power Brands, solidifying an omnichannel presence and executing with excellence.  

“We’re taking a fresh approach, challenging existing thinking and exploring new ideas and ways to win,” he said. “More than ever, the consumer needs to be at the center of what we do. Today’s consumers eat differently, shop differently and seek different experiences. Since consumers are changing fast, we have to be more nimble, innovative and forward-looking than ever before.”  

Van de Put continued: “The key to unlocking more value for shareholders is to get two things right: putting the consumer at the center of everything we do and executing with excellence every day, in every store. If we do that, I’m confident we’ll deliver sustainable, profitable growth.”  

Brian Gladden, Chief Financial Officer, underscored the company’s strong bottom-line performance over the past four years, including a 600-basis-point increase in Adjusted Operating Income1 margin and 18 percent CAGR in Adjusted EPS1 at constant currency. Gladden highlighted how the company’s Supply Chain Reinvention program and Zero-Based Budgeting approach significantly contributed to delivering this performance.  

“We’ve built a core competency in cost management, and this will benefit us moving forward,” Gladden said. “Cost efficiencies will continue to be a fundamental part of our playbook, and we’re confident there are additional opportunities to improve margin performance and fund growth initiatives.”  

1  

Reaffirming 2018 Outlook  

During today’s presentation, the company reaffirmed its 2018 outlook, including:  

   •   Organic Net Revenue growth1 of 1 to 2 percent  

   •   Adjusted Operating Income margin of approximately 17 percent  

   •   Double-digit Adjusted EPS growth on a constant-currency basis  

   •   Free Cash Flow1 of approximately $2.8 billion  

A live audio webcast of today’s CAGNY presentation will be available in the investors section of the company’s website (www.mondelezinternational.com), and an archived replay of the presentation with accompanying slides will be available on the website following the webcast. The company will be live tweeting from the event at www.twitter.com/MDLZ.  

About Mondelēz International  

Mondelēz International, Inc. (NASDAQ: MDLZ) is building the best snacking company in the world, with 2017 net revenues of approximately $26 billion. Creating more moments of joy in approximately 160 countries, Mondelēz International is a world leader in biscuits, chocolate, gum, candy and powdered beverages, featuring global Power Brands such as Oreo and belVita biscuits; Cadbury Dairy Milk and Milka chocolate; and Trident gum. Mondelēz International is a proud member of the Standard and Poor’s 500, Nasdaq 100 and Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Visit www.mondelezinternational.com or follow the company on Twitter at www.twitter.com/MDLZ.  

End Note  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Outlook  

The company’s outlook for 2018 Organic Net Revenue growth, Adjusted Operating Income margin, Adjusted EPS growth on a constant currency basis and Free Cash Flow are non-GAAP financial measures that exclude or otherwise adjust for items impacting comparability of financial results such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, restructuring activities, acquisitions and divestitures. The company is not able to reconcile its full year 2018 projected Organic Net Revenue growth to its full year 2018 projected reported net revenue growth because the company is unable to predict the 2018 impact of foreign exchange due to the unpredictability of future changes in foreign exchange rates, which could be material as a significant portion of the company’s operations are outside the U.S. The company is not able to reconcile its full year 2018 projected Adjusted Operating Income margin  

2  

 to its full year 2018 projected reported operating income margin because the company is unable to predict the timing of its Restructuring Program costs, mark-to-market impacts from commodity and forecasted currency transaction derivative contracts and impacts from potential acquisitions or divestitures. The company is not able to reconcile its full year 2018 projected Adjusted EPS growth on a constant currency basis to its full year 2018 projected reported diluted EPS growth because the company is unable to predict the timing of its Restructuring Program costs, mark-to-market impacts from commodity and forecasted currency derivative contracts, impacts from potential acquisitions or divestitures as well as the impact of foreign exchange due to the unpredictability of future changes in foreign exchange rates, which could be material as a significant portion of the company’s operations are outside the U.S. The company is not able to reconcile its full year 2018 projected Free Cash Flow to its full year 2018 projected net cash from operating activities because the company is unable to predict the timing and amount of capital expenditures impacting cash flow. Therefore, because of the uncertainty and variability of the nature and amount of future adjustments, which could be significant, the company is unable to provide a reconciliation of these measures without unreasonable effort.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

This press release contains a number of forward-looking statements. Words, and variations of words, such as “will,” “expect,” “deliver,” “designed,” “outlook” and similar expressions are intended to identify the company’s forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements about: the company’s future performance, including its future revenue growth, earnings per share, margins and cash flow; the company’s cost management efforts; the company’s strategy and strategic review; value creation for shareholders; and the company’s outlook, including 2018 Organic Net Revenue growth, Adjusted Operating Income margin, Adjusted EPS and Free Cash Flow. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the company’s control, which could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the company’s forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, risks from operating globally including in emerging markets; changes in currency exchange rates, controls and restrictions; continued volatility of commodity and other input costs; weakness in economic conditions; weakness in consumer spending; pricing actions; tax matters including changes in tax rates and laws, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes; use of information technology and third party service providers; unanticipated disruptions to the company’s business; competition; the restructuring program and the company’s other transformation initiatives not yielding the anticipated benefits; and changes in the assumptions on which the restructuring program is based. Please also see the company’s risk factors, as they may be amended from time to time, set forth in its filings with the SEC, including the company’s most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. Mondelēz International disclaims and does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this press release, except as required by applicable law or regulation.  

3  

Mondelēz International, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

(Unaudited)  

The company reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). However, management believes that also presenting certain non-GAAP financial measures provides additional information to facilitate comparison of the company’s historical operating results and trends in its underlying operating results, and provides additional transparency on how the company evaluates its business. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making financial, operating and planning decisions and in evaluating the company’s performance. The company also believes that presenting these measures allows investors to view its performance using the same measures that the company uses in evaluating its financial and business performance and trends.  

The company considers quantitative and qualitative factors in assessing whether to adjust for the impact of items that may be significant or that could affect an understanding of its ongoing financial and business performance and trends. The adjustments generally fall within the following categories: acquisition & divestiture activities, gains and losses on intangible asset sales and non-cash impairments, major program restructuring activities, constant currency and related adjustments, major program financing and hedging activities and other major items affecting comparability of operating results. See below for a description of adjustments to the company’s U.S. GAAP financial measures included herein.  

Non-GAAP information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, the company’s non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as or comparable to similar non-GAAP measures presented by other companies.  

Because GAAP financial measures on a forward-looking basis are not accessible and reconciling information is not available without unreasonable effort, the company has not provided that information with regard to the non-GAAP financial measures in the company’s outlook. Refer to the Outlook section above for more details.  

4  

DEFINITIONS OF THE COMPANY’S NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES  

The company’s non-GAAP financial measures and corresponding metrics reflect how the company evaluates its operating results currently and provide improved comparability of operating results. As new events or circumstances arise, these definitions could change. When these definitions change, the company provides the updated definitions and presents the related non-GAAP historical results on a comparable basis (1).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •   “Free Cash Flow” is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. As Free Cash Flow is the company’s primary measure used to monitor its cash flow performance, the company believes this non-GAAP measure provides investors additional useful information when evaluating its cash from operating activities.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (2) Divestitures include completed sales of businesses and exits of major product lines upon completion of a sale or licensing agreement.  

   (3) The company continues to have an ongoing interest in the legacy coffee business it deconsolidated in 2015 as part of the JDE coffee business transactions. For historical periods prior to the July 15, 2015 coffee business deconsolidation, the company has reclassified any net revenue or operating income from the historical coffee business and included them where the coffee equity method investment earnings are presented within Adjusted EPS. As such, Organic Net Revenue and Adjusted Operating Income in all periods do not include the results of the company’s legacy coffee businesses, which are shown within Adjusted EPS only.  

5  

   (4) Constant currency operating results are calculated by dividing or multiplying, as appropriate, the current-period local currency operating results by the currency exchange rates used to translate the financial statements in the comparable prior-year period to determine what the current-period U.S. dollar operating results would have been if the currency exchange rate had not changed from the comparable prior-year period.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (7) Historically, the company has recorded income from equity method investments within its operating income as these investments operated as extensions of the company’s base business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, the company began to record the earnings from its equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of operating income following the deconsolidation of its coffee business. Refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 for more information.  

   (8) During 2017, the company recorded benefits from the reversal of tax liabilities in connection with the resolution of a Brazilian indirect tax matter and settlement of pre-acquisition Cadbury tax matters. Refer to Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies—Tax Matters, in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for additional information.  

   (9) On November 20, 2017, Dirk Van de Put succeeded Irene Rosenfeld as CEO of Mondelēz International in advance of her retirement at the end of March 2018. In order to incent Mr. Van de Put to join the company, the company provided him compensation with a total combined target value of $42.5 million to make him whole for incentive awards he forfeited or grants that were not made to him when he left his former employer. The compensation the company granted took the form of cash, deferred stock units, performance share units and stock options. In connection with Irene Rosenfeld’s retirement, the company made her outstanding grants of performance share units for the 2016-2018 and 2017-2019 performance cycles eligible for continued vesting and approved a $0.5 million salary for her service as Chairman from January through March 2018. The company refers to these elements of Mr. Van de Put’s and Ms. Rosenfeld’s compensation arrangements together as “CEO transition remuneration.” The company is excluding amounts it expenses as CEO transition remuneration from its 2017 and future non-GAAP results because those amounts are not part of the company’s regular compensation program and are incremental to amounts the company would have incurred as ongoing CEO compensation. As a result, in 2017, the company excluded amounts expensed for the cash payment to Mr. Van de Put and partial vesting of his equity grants. In 2018, the company expects to exclude amounts paid for Ms. Rosenfeld’s service as Chairman and partial vesting of Mr. Van de Put’s and Ms. Rosenfeld’s equity grants.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (11)  

The company has excluded its proportionate share of its equity method investees’ unusual or infrequent items, such as acquisitions and divestiture related costs, restructuring program costs and discrete U.S. tax reform impacts, in order to provide investors with a comparable view of its performance across periods. Although the company has shareholder rights and board representation commensurate with its ownership  

6  

    interests in its equity method investees and reviews the underlying operating results and unusual or infrequent items with them each reporting period, the company does not have direct control over the operations or resulting revenue and expenses. The company’s use of equity method investment net earnings on an adjusted basis is not intended to imply that the company has any such control. The company’s GAAP “diluted EPS attributable to Mondelēz International from continuing operations” includes all of its investees’ unusual and infrequent items.  

ITEMS IMPACTING COMPARABILITY OF OPERATING RESULTS  

For descriptions of the items impacting the comparability of the company’s operating results, please refer to the company’s historical earnings releases located at www.mondelezinternational.com/investors.  

7  

GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation  

Operating Income To Adjusted Operating Income  

(in millions of U.S. dollars) (Unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation  

Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS  

(Unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]