Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 29, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Section 7 - Regulation FD

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure

On January 29, 2018, Louisville Gas and Electric Company ("LG&E") and Kentucky Utilities Company ("KU", and collectively with LG&E, the "Companies") issued a press release announcing that the Companies have reached a settlement with the parties to the Kentucky Public Service Commission ("KPSC") proceeding relating to rate matters as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 

Pursuant to the proposed settlement, the Companies would return approximately $177 million in tax-reform related savings to Kentucky customers. The savings will be distributed through various rate mechanisms beginning in March 2018 and through new monthly bill energy credits from April 1, 2018 through April 30, 2019. The rate reductions represent approximately $69 million and $91 million in LG&E and KU electric rates, respectively, and $17 million in LG&E gas rates for the period January 2018 through April 2019. The relevant mechanisms include the environmental cost recovery, demand side management and gas line tracker. Because the bill credits are based upon energy usage, ultimate aggregate savings amounts returned by the Companies may vary.

The proposed agreement also provides for similar, but smaller, tax-reform related credits to continue after May 2019, in the event the base rates of the Companies have not been otherwise reset via base rate proceedings. The Companies have indicated their expectation to submit such applications to change base rates during 2018.

The proposed agreement is subject to review and approval by the KPSC. A ruling in the proceeding may occur during the first quarter 2018.

A copy of the press release is furnished as exhibit 99.1 to this report.

Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits

 (d) Exhibits 

   99.1 -

Press release, dated January 29, 2018, of Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company.

Statements in this report regarding future events and their timing, including the Companies’ proposed rate changes, future rates, rate mechanisms or returns on equity, as well as statements as to future costs or expenses, regulation, corporate strategy and performance, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Although the Companies believe that the expectations and assumptions reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these expectations, assumptions and statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the statements. The following are among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements: subsequent phases of rate proceedings and regulatory cost recovery; market demand and prices for electricity and natural gas; political, regulatory or economic conditions in states and regions where the Companies conduct business; and the progress of actual construction, purchase or installation of assets or operations subject to tracker mechanisms. All forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these important factors and in conjunction with PPL Corporation’s, LG&E and KU Energy LLC’s and the Companies’ Form 10-K and other reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Dated: January 30, 2018