ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about our exposure to market risk. The term market risk relates to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas, and NGL prices, interest rates, or foreign currency and adverse governmental actions. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. The forward-looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures.

Commodity Price Risk

The Company’s revenues, earnings, cash flow, capital investments and, ultimately, future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices the Company receives for its crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, which have historically been very volatile because of unpredictable events such as economic growth or retraction, weather, political climate, and global supply and demand. These factors have only been heightened as the result of continuing negative demand implications of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company continually monitors its market risk exposure, including the impact and developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic, which introduced significant volatility in the financial markets subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2019.

The Company’s average crude oil realizations decreased 34 percent to $39.60 per barrel in 2020 from $60.05 per barrel in 2019. The Company’s average natural gas price realizations decreased 4 percent to $1.83 per Mcf in 2020 from $1.90 per Mcf in 2019. The Company’s average NGL realizations decreased 25 percent to $11.84 per barrel in 2020 from $15.74 per barrel in 2019. Based on average daily production for 2020, a $1.00 per barrel change in the weighted average realized oil price would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $78 million, a $0.10 per Mcf change in the weighted average realized price of natural gas would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $33 million, and a $1.00 per barrel change in the weighted average realized NGL price would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $28 million.

54

Apache periodically enters into derivative positions on a portion of its projected oil and natural gas production through a variety of financial and physical arrangements intended to manage fluctuations in cash flows resulting from changes in commodity prices. Such derivative positions may include the use of futures contracts, swaps, and/or options. Apache does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had open natural gas derivatives not designated as cash flow hedges in an asset position with a fair value of $11 million. The impact of a 10 percent movement in natural gas prices would be immaterial to the fair value of the commodity derivatives. These fair value changes assume volatility based on prevailing market parameters at December 31, 2020. See Note 4—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report Form 10-K for notional volumes and terms with the Company’s derivative contracts.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2020, Apache had approximately $8.1 billion net carrying value of notes and debentures outstanding, all of which was fixed-rate debt, with a weighted average interest rate of 4.98 percent. Although near-term changes in interest rates may affect the fair value of Apache’s fixed-rate debt, they do not expose the Company to the risk of earnings or cash flow loss associated with that debt. Apache is also exposed to interest rate risk related to its interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents balances and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program and credit facilities. As of December 31, 2020, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $262 million, approximately 46 percent of which was invested in money market funds and short-term investments with major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had credit facility borrowings of $150 million and $624 million under its Apache and Altus credit facilities, respectively. A change in the interest rate applicable to the Company’s short-term investments and credit facility borrowings would have an immaterial impact on earnings and cash flows but could impact interest costs associated with future debt issuances or any future borrowings under its commercial paper program, revolving credit facilities, and money market lines of credit.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The Company’s cash activities relating to certain international operations is based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash flows measured in foreign currencies. The Company’s North Sea production is sold under U.S. dollar contracts, and the majority of costs incurred are paid in British pounds. In Egypt, substantially all oil and gas production is sold under U.S. dollar contracts, and the majority of the costs incurred are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions denominated in British pounds are converted to U.S. dollar equivalents based on the average exchange rates during the period.

Foreign currency gains and losses also arise when monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the end of each month. Currency gains and losses are included as either a component of “Other” under “Revenues and Other” or, as is the case when the Company re-measures its foreign tax liabilities, as a component of the Company’s provision for income tax expense on the statement of consolidated operations. A foreign currency net gain or loss of $5 million would result from a 10 percent weakening or strengthening, respectively, in the British pound as of December 31, 2020.

The Company is subject to increased foreign currency risk associated with the effects of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union. Apache has periodically entered into foreign exchange contracts in order to minimize the impact of fluctuating exchange rates for the British pound on the Company’s operating expenses. The Company had no outstanding foreign exchange derivative contracts as of December 31, 2020.

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA