ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity investment risks. This exposure has increased due to recent financial market movements and changes to our expectations of near-term possible movements caused by the impact of COVID-19 as discussed in more detail below.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We primarily conduct our business in the following locations: the United States, Europe, Canada, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Japan. The expanding global scope of our business exposes us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency markets, including emerging markets. This exposure is the result of selling in multiple currencies, growth in our international investments, including data center expansion, costs associated with third-party infrastructure providers, additional headcount in foreign countries, and operating in countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Specifically, our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations in the following currencies: the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and Brazilian Real against the United States Dollar (“USD”). These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change, including market impacts associated with COVID-19. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. 

In fiscal 2020, we began transitioning away from our UK-centralized European structure to enable some of our local subsidiaries within Europe, including Germany and France, to invoice customers directly. This transition, which may take multiple years, is expected to enable local subsidiaries to recognize revenues, operating expenses and corresponding balance sheet accounts in local currencies. With the change to local invoicing in some markets, we expect better alignment between our revenue and expenses in the local currency.

In January 2020, the UK exited the European Union (“EU”) (“Brexit”). In December 2020, a trade agreement was entered into between the UK and the EU and in January 2021, the transition period ended and the UK was no longer subject to EU rules or regulations. Brexit and the new UK-EU trade agreement could adversely affect the UK, regional (including European) and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British Pound Sterling and Euro. We have evaluated and started to implement initiatives, such as the commitment to invest resources in Dublin, Ireland that could partially mitigate the impact Brexit could have on our operations. In fiscal 2021 and 2020, revenues generated in Europe were approximately 21 percent and 20 percent of total revenues, respectively, of which most are recorded in our UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Ireland subsidiaries. Revenues in Europe had a minimal favorable impact in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 as a result of fluctuations in the Euro and British Pound Sterling against the USD. We recognize that there are still significant uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of Brexit negotiations, and we will continue to monitor any changes that may arise and assess their potential impact on our business.

Foreign Currency Transaction Risk

Our foreign currency exposures typically arise from selling annual and multi-year subscriptions in multiple currencies, customer accounts receivable, intercompany transfer pricing arrangements and other intercompany transactions. Our foreign currency management objective is to minimize the effect of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on selected assets or liabilities without exposing us to additional risk associated with transactions that could be regarded as speculative. 

We pursue our objective by utilizing foreign currency forward contracts to offset foreign exchange risk. Our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. We neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we currently designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification 815, Derivatives and Hedging. Accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheets with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statements of operations. Given the short duration of the forward contracts, the amount recorded is not significant. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. 

Foreign Currency Translation Risk

Fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets, liabilities, revenues, operating expenses and cash flows that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into USD. Although the USD fluctuated against certain international currencies throughout the year, the amounts of revenue that we reported in USD for foreign subsidiaries that transact in international currencies were similar to what we would have reported during fiscal 2020 using a constant currency rate. However, fluctuations in USD against certain international currencies over the past several months modestly benefited our remaining performance obligation as of January 31, 2021 compared to what we would have reported as of January 31, 2020 using constant currency rate. 

54
Interest Rate Sensitivity

We had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $12.0 billion as of January 31, 2021. This amount was invested primarily in money market funds, time deposits, corporate notes and bonds, government securities and other debt securities with credit ratings of at least BBB or better. The cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are held for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary businesses, services or technologies, working capital and capital expenditures. Our investments are made for capital preservation purposes. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes.

Our cash equivalents and our portfolio of marketable securities are subject to market risk due to changes in interest rates. Fixed-rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because we classify our debt securities as “available for sale,” no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or due to expected credit losses. 

Our fixed-income portfolio is also subject to interest rate risk. An immediate increase or decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points at January 31, 2021 could result in a $63 million market value reduction or increase of the same amount. This estimate is based on a sensitivity model that measures market value changes when changes in interest rates occur. Fluctuations in the value of our investment securities caused by a change in interest rates (gains or losses on the carrying value) are recorded in other comprehensive income, and are realized only if we sell the underlying securities.

At January 31, 2020, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $7.9 billion. Changes in interest rates of 100 basis points would have resulted in market value changes of $38 million.

Market Risk and Market Interest Risk

We deposit our cash with multiple financial institutions. 

In addition, we maintain debt obligations that are subject to market interest risk, as follows (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Maturity date will be 364 days following the closing of the pending Slack acquisition.

(2) Maturity date is three years following the closing of the pending Slack acquisition.

Any borrowings under the Bridge Facility will bear interest, at our option, at a base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 0.875% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 0.50% to 1.125%, in each case with such spread being determined based on our credit ratings from time to time and subject to increases of 0.25% on each of the 90th, 180th and 270th day following the initial funding of the Bridge Facility. As of January 31, 2021, there was no outstanding borrowing amounts under the Bridge Facility.

Any borrowings under our Acquisition Term Loan bear interest, at our option, at a base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 0.125% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 0.50% to 1.125%, in each case with such spread being determined based on our credit ratings from time to time. Our Acquisition Term Loan allows for the LIBOR rate to be phased out and replaced with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate and therefore we do not anticipate a material impact by the expected upcoming LIBOR transition. As of January 31, 2021, there was no outstanding borrowing amount under the Acquisition Term Loan.

The borrowings under our Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at a base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 0.125% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 0.50% to 1.125%, in each case with such spread being determined based on our credit rating. Our Credit Facility allows for the LIBOR rate to be phased out and replaced with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate and therefore we do not anticipate a material impact by the expected upcoming LIBOR transition. We are also obligated to pay an ongoing commitment fee on undrawn amounts. As of January 31, 2021, there was no outstanding borrowing amount under the Credit Facility.

The bank counterparties to our derivative contracts potentially expose us to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. To mitigate that risk, we only contract with counterparties who meet the minimum requirements under our 

55
counterparty risk assessment process. We monitor ratings, credit spreads and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. Based on our ongoing assessment of counterparty risk, we adjust our exposure to various counterparties. We generally enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. However, we do not have any master netting arrangements in place with collateral features.

We have an investment portfolio that includes strategic investments in privately held and publicly traded companies, which range from early-stage companies to more mature companies both domestically and internationally, including in emerging markets. We primarily invest in enterprise cloud companies, technology startups and system integrators to advance and expand our ecosystem. As the enterprise cloud computing ecosystem continues to mature and technologies change, our investment strategy and corresponding investment opportunities have expanded to include investments in companies concurrently with their initial public offerings, as well as larger capital investments in late stage companies. We plan to continue these types of strategic investments, including in companies representing targeted geographies and targeted business and technological initiatives, as opportunities arise that we find attractive. Our strategy includes using proceeds from realized gains recognized on the sales of our existing strategic investments to, in part, fund these new strategic investments. 

As of January 31, 2021, our portfolio consisted of investments in over 280 companies, with capital investments ranging from less than $0.3 million to approximately $335 million, and 40 investments with carrying values individually equal to or in excess of approximately $10 million. As of January 31, 2021, we held one publicly traded investment with a carrying value that was approximately 35 percent of our total strategic investments, one publicly traded investment with a carrying value that was greater than 15 percent of our total strategic investments, and one privately held investment with a carrying value greater than five percent of our strategic investment portfolio. 

The following table sets forth additional information regarding active equity investments within our strategic investment portfolio as of January 31, 2021 and excludes exited investments (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We anticipate additional volatility to our consolidated statements of operations due to changes in market prices, observable price changes and impairments to our investments. These changes could be material based on market conditions and events. While historically our investment portfolio has had a positive impact on our financial results, that may not be true for future periods, particularly in periods of significant market fluctuations that affect our equity securities within our strategic investments portfolio. Volatility in the global market conditions, including recent and ongoing volatility related to the impacts of COVID-19 and related public health measures, may impact our investment portfolio and our financial results may fluctuate from historical results and expectations.

Our investments in privately held securities are in various classes of equity which may have different rights and preferences. The particular securities we hold, and their rights and preferences relative to those of other securities within the capital structure, may impact the magnitude by which our investment value moves in relation to movement of the total enterprise value of the company. As a result, our investment value in a specific company may move by more or less than any change in value of that overall company. An immediate decrease of ten percent in enterprise value of our publicly traded and significant privately held equity securities held as of January 31, 2021, which represents 74 percent of the strategic investment portfolio, could result in a $272 million reduction in the value of our investment portfolio. Fluctuations in the value of our privately held equity investments are only recorded when there is an observable transaction for a same or similar investment of the same issuer or in the event of impairment.

We continually evaluate our investments in privately held and publicly traded companies. In certain cases, our ability to sell these investments may be impacted by contractual obligations to hold the securities for a set period of time after a public offering. One of our publicly traded investments, which individually had a carrying value of approximately 35 percent of our total strategic investment portfolio, is subject to lock-up agreements until March 2021, for the investment made prior to their initial public offering (“IPO”) and September 2021 for the investment made concurrent with their IPO. A portion of our holdings was released from the lock-up agreement early as certain criteria were met. 

In addition, the financial success of our investment in any company is typically dependent on a liquidity event, such as a public offering, acquisition or other favorable market event reflecting appreciation to the cost of our initial investment. All of our investments, particularly those in privately held companies, are therefore subject to a risk of partial or total loss of invested capital. The rapid spread of COVID-19 and its reverberating effects on the global economy have caused disruptions to the industry and to financial markets that are inhibiting and may continue to inhibit the ability of investee companies to complete a liquidity event. In severe cases, our investee companies may no longer be able to operate or could experience reduced profitability, delayed public offerings, reduced ability to raise favorable rounds of financing, or acquisitions at less favorable 

56
terms. These outcomes could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

57
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS