Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  

The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about our potential exposure to market risks. The term “market risk” refers to our risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas and NGL prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The following disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. This forward-looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures. All of our market risk sensitive instruments were entered into for purposes other than speculative trading. 

Commodity Price Risk 

Our major market risk exposure is the pricing applicable to our oil, gas and NGL production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot market prices applicable to our gas and NGL production. Pricing for oil and gas production has been volatile and unpredictable as discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. Consequently, we systematically hedge a portion of our production through various financial transactions. The key terms to our oil and gas derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2020 are presented in Note 3 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report. 

The fair values of our commodity derivatives are largely determined by estimates of the forward curves of the relevant price indices. At December 31, 2020, a 10% change in the forward curves associated with our commodity derivative instruments would have changed our net liability positions by approximately $118 million. 

Interest Rate Risk 

At December 31, 2020, we had total debt of $4.3 billion. All of our debt is based on fixed interest rates averaging 6.0%. 

Foreign Currency Risk 

Devon has certain Canadian dollar obligations associated with its divested Canadian operations which are to be paid with the cash restricted for retained obligations. These balances are remeasured using the applicable exchange rate as of the end of the reporting period. A 10% unfavorable change in the Canadian-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate would not have materially impacted our December 31, 2020 balance sheet for these items. See Note 19 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this report for additional information. 

48 

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data