PART I

Item 1: Business

Overview

Electronic Arts is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. We develop, market, publish and deliver games, content and services that can be played and watched on game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets.

Our Strategic Pillars

Our strategic pillars focus on delivering amazing games and content, offering services that extend and enhance the experience, and connecting more players across more platforms, and more ways to play. We believe that the breadth and depth of our portfolio, live services offerings, and our use of multiple business models and distribution channels provide us with strategic advantages. These advantages include the opportunity to engage an increasing number of players across more distribution channels and geographies, and dependable sources of revenue from our annualized sports franchises (e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL), our console, PC and mobile catalog titles (i.e., titles that did not launch in the current fiscal year), and our live services. In fiscal year 2021, execution against our strategic pillars and increased engagement with our products and services led to growth in our business, aided by consumers spending more time at home because of social restrictions and local government mandates related to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, longer-term trends that benefit our business accelerated. Live services and other net revenue for fiscal year 2021 increased more than 10 percent year-over-year. We have also experienced a significant increase in the percentage of our games purchased digitally. The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, including those factors included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report under the heading “Risk Factors” beginning on Page 9.

Amazing Games and Content; Services that Extend and Enhance the Experience

Our foundation is a portfolio of intellectual property from which we create innovative games and content that enables us to build on-going and meaningful relationships with communities of players, creators and viewers. Our portfolio includes brands that we either wholly own (such as Battlefield, The Sims, Apex Legends, Need for Speed and Plants vs. Zombies) or license from others (such as FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars).

We develop and publish games and services across diverse genres, such as sports, racing, first-person shooter, action, role-playing and simulation. We have added to the breadth of our portfolio in recent years by, among other things, launching Apex Legends, our first free-to-play console game, expanding the ways in which players can engage with The Sims 4 and adding new modes through which players can engage with our sports franchises. The depth of our portfolio is demonstrated by providing players with opportunities for choice within genres and franchises. For example, our sports portfolio includes the FIFA (soccer), Madden NFL (American football), NHL (ice hockey), Formula 1 (auto racing), and UFC (ultimate fighting) franchises, among others. And within our franchises we have innovated by providing multiple modalities of play designed to satisfy the various motivations of our players. For example, within FIFA 21, in addition to the professional soccer simulation base game, players can also engage with FIFA Ultimate Team, designed for players motivated by competition and self-improvement as well as VOLTA FOOTBALL, designed for players that play for social connection and self-expression. FIFA is our largest and most 

3
popular game and franchise. Revenue from our FIFA franchise, including the annualized console and PC game which is consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace as well as from FIFA Ultimate Team, is material to our business and will continue to be so. We seek to add to the breadth and depth of our portfolio by investing in developing and establishing new brands as well as investing in our partnerships with external game developers to create games and content that we bring to market.

In addition, we acquired Glu Mobile, Inc. (“Glu”) on April 29, 2021 and Codemasters Group Holdings plc (“Codemasters”) on February 18, 2021. The $2.3 billion acquisition of Glu is expected to accelerate our mobile growth by creating a combined organization with ongoing live services across multiple games and genres. We also believe that the acquisition will create value by adding Glu’s expertise in casual sports and lifestyle genres to new titles based on our intellectual property. The $1.2 billion Codemasters acquisition grows our presence in racing, creating a global leader in racing entertainment. For more information about the Glu and Codemasters acquisition, see Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 7 — Business Combinations.

Through our live services offerings, we offer our players high-quality experiences designed to provide value to players and extend and enhance gameplay. These live services include extra content, subscription offerings and other revenue generated outside of the sale of our base games. Our digital live services and other net revenue represented 71 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2021. We expect that live services net revenue, particularly extra content net revenue, will continue to be material to our business. Our most popular live service is the extra content purchased within the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises. Ultimate Team allows players to collect current and former professional players in order to build, and compete as, a personalized team. Net revenue from Ultimate Team represented 29 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2021, a substantial portion of which was derived from FIFA Ultimate Team. In addition, in fiscal year 2021, we provided players with additional engagement opportunities through launching four seasons of content for Apex Legends, expanding Apex Legends to the Nintendo Switch platform, releasing five additional content packs for The Sims 4 and continuing a robust schedule of live events for Ultimate Team across our FIFA, Madden NFL and NHL franchises.

Within our games and live services, we offer additional services that are designed to connect players to their friends and to the games they love, such as access to online marketplaces and in-game player rewards and achievements, which such services do not directly monetize. We also promote positive play in our games and services, aiming to offer safe, fun and inclusive environments in which to play by, among other things, providing players with information about their engagement and tools that allow them control of their experiences.

We also are investing in a number of long-term service-based initiatives that we believe will allow us to better serve and deepen our engagement with our players, such as an infrastructure that will enable us to better deliver content that will resonate with players and provide more choice in the way that players connect with their games, with each other, and with new types of content, and our esports initiatives. We believe that the interest and enthusiasm that surrounds esports will drive engagement and monetization in our products and services in addition to providing revenue opportunities through partnerships with sponsors and broadcasters.

Connecting More Players, Across more Platforms, and More Ways to Play

We are focused on reaching more players whenever and wherever they want to play. We believe that we can add value to our network by making it easier for players to connect to a world of play by offering choice of business model, distribution channel and device. Our games and services can be played and watched on consoles, PCs, mobile phones, tablets, and reach our players through both digital distribution channels and retail channels. Players can access our games and services through traditional single-game purchase or through subscription offerings; and certain of our games and services are available through a “free-to-play” model whereby players download the game for free and engage with services provided on an ongoing basis. For example, we develop products and services within the FIFA franchise that allow players to engage with FIFA through multiple business models, distribution channels and devices, including: (1) our annualized console and PC games and associated services, which can be purchased through both digital distribution and retail channels and also is available through subscription services; (2) FIFA Mobile, a mobile free-to-play offering; and (3) FIFA Online, a PC free-to-play game available in certain countries.

Digitally, our console games and live services can be purchased through third-party storefronts, such as the digital stores of our console partners. In fiscal year 2021 we expanded our reach, including by launching FIFA 21 and Madden NFL 21 on the Microsoft Xbox Series X and the Sony Playstation 5, and by launching FIFA 21, Madden NFL 21 and Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order on Google Stadia. Our direct sales to Sony and Microsoft represented approximately 34 percent and 18 percent of total net revenue, respectively, in fiscal year 2021. Our mobile and tablet games and services are available through third-party application storefronts such as the Apple App Store and Google Play. Our PC games and services can be downloaded directly through Origin, EA’s digital storefront, as well as through third-party online download stores, such as Steam. We also partner 

4
with third parties to publish our mobile and PC games and services in certain Asian territories, such as our partnerships with Tencent Holdings Limited for FIFA Online in China and Nexon Co. Ltd. for FIFA Online in Korea. From time to time, third parties will publish mobile and tablet games and services under a license to certain of our intellectual property assets.

We also offer our EA Play subscription service on consoles and PC as we look to build deeper relationships with our players and offer increased choice and flexibility for our players to try new games. EA Play allows players access to a selection of our console and PC games and services for a monthly or annual fee. In fiscal year 2021, we expanded the audience for EA Play by launching on Steam and integrating with Microsoft GamePass.

Our packaged goods games are sold directly to mass market retailers, specialty stores and through distribution arrangements.

New distribution methods and business models are expected to continue to emerge in the future, and we intend to evaluate these opportunities on a case-by-case basis.

Significant Relationships

Sony & Microsoft. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates and with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disc-based and digitally-delivered software products and services compatible with PlayStation and Xbox consoles, respectively. Under these agreements with Sony and Microsoft, we have the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned or licensed by them to publish our games on their respective consoles. With respect to our digitally-delivered products and services, the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a royalty percentage on the revenue they derive from their sales of our products and services. Our transactions for packaged goods products are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony or Microsoft (or their designated replicators), as the case may be. For packaged goods products, we pay the console manufacturers a per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured. Many key commercial terms of our relationships with Sony and Microsoft — such as manufacturing terms, delivery times, policies and approval conditions — are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers.

The license agreements also require us to indemnify the console manufacturers for any loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the console manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the console manufacturer. Each license may be terminated by the console manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the console manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The console manufacturers are not obligated to enter into license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services.

Apple, Google and Other App Stores. We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications and additional content through distributors such as Apple and Google. Our applications are downloaded for mobile devices from third party application storefronts. The distributor charges consumers for content purchased within the application or charges consumers a one-time fee to download the application. Our distribution agreements establish the amounts that are retained by the distributor and the amounts passed through to us. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of our applications.

Publishing Partners in Asia. We have entered into agreements whereby we partner with certain companies, including Tencent Holdings Limited and Nexon Co., Ltd. or their respective affiliates, pursuant to which these companies publish our mobile and PC free-to-play games in certain countries, including China and Korea. Our players access games from the publishers’ online storefronts and are charged for additional content purchased within our game environment. The agreements generally establish the amounts that are retained by the publisher, and the amounts passed through to us.

Competition

The market for interactive entertainment is intensely competitive and changes rapidly as new products, business models and distribution channels are introduced. We also face competition for the right to use certain intellectual property included in our products. In order to remain successful, we are required to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, the ways in which our products and services will compete in the market. We face significant competition from companies such as Activision Blizzard, Take-Two Interactive, Ubisoft, Epic Games, Tencent, Zynga, Netmarble, Warner Brothers, Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, primarily with respect to developing games and services that operate on consoles, PCs and/or mobile devices. In addition, the gaming, technology/internet, and entertainment industries have converged in recent years and larger, well-funded technology companies such as Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Microsoft are pursuing and strengthening their interactive entertainment capabilities and new entrants continue to emerge.

5
More broadly, we compete against providers of different sources of entertainment, such as movies, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music that our players could enjoy in their free time. Important competitive factors in our industry include the ability to attract creative and technical talent, game quality and ease of use, innovation, compatibility of products with certain consoles and other distribution channels, brand recognition, reputation, reliability, security, creativity, price, marketing, and quality of customer service.

Intellectual Property and Technology

To establish and protect our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, patents, patent applications, trade secrets, know-how, license agreements, confidentiality provisions and procedures and other contractual provisions. We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, but the laws of some countries in which we operate, particularly in Asia, either do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States or are poorly enforced. As our digital business has grown, our games and services increasingly depend on the reliability, availability and security of our technological infrastructure. Our industry is prone to, and our systems and networks are subject to actions by malfeasant actors, such as cyber-attacks and other information security incidents. While we devote financial and operational resources to implement systems, processes and technologies to guard against cyber events and to help protect our intellectual property, employee and consumer data and information technology systems against intrusions or other security breaches, we have experienced such events in the past and expect future events to occur. In addition, we engage in activities designed to limit the impact of abuse of our digital products and services, including monitoring our games for evidence of exploitation and re-balancing our game environments in the event that such abuse is discovered.

Governmental Regulation

We are a global company subject to various and complex laws and regulations domestically and internationally, including laws and regulations related to user privacy, data collection and retention, consumer protection, protection of minors, content, including user-generated content, advertising, localization, information security, intellectual property, competition and taxation, among others. Many of these laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing, and the application to, and impact on, us is uncertain. Certain of our business models are subject to new laws or regulations or evolving interpretations and application of existing laws and regulations, including those related to gambling. The growth and development of electronic commerce, virtual items and virtual currency has prompted calls for new laws and regulations and resulted in the application of existing laws or regulations that have limited or restricted the sale of our products and services in certain territories.

Seasonality

We have historically experienced the highest percentage of our net bookings in our third fiscal quarter due to seasonal holiday demand and the launch timing of our games. While we expect this trend to continue in fiscal year 2022, there is no assurance that it will.

Human Capital

A healthy culture and engaged workforce is essential to our ability to execute our strategic pillars and build on-going and meaningful relationships with our communities. As a knowledge-based business, our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and services and that our future success will depend, in large measure, on our ability to continue attracting, training, motivating and retaining qualified employees. As of March 31, 2021, we employed approximately 11,000 people globally, with 64 percent located internationally.

We are focused on supporting our employees across the full employee lifecycle and have implemented programs and practices designed to promote inclusion and diversity, employee engagement and employee wellness. For example, we support seven employee resource groups (“ERGs”) which are a critical component of our culture and provide allyship across groups and functions within the company. Our ERGs connect employees, create a sense of belonging, and contribute directly to our inclusion and diversity pillars. Our largest ERG, Women’s Ultimate Team, has approximately 1,500 members. In addition, to support our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, during fiscal year 2021 we enhanced our programs to provide additional temporary support, including payments to assist with work from home costs and care needs, a pandemic care leave program, and additional services for mental and physical health.

6
Inclusion and Diversity

Inclusion and diversity is a business imperative because our global player community crosses lines of gender, race, ethnicity and geography. To create games and experiences that resonate with players, we need to cultivate a workforce that reflects this diverse player community. We work to embed inclusion across our systems and processes in order to (1) develop relatable content and games, (2) enable expansion into new and diverse markets, (3) attract, develop and retain talent that can thrive and do their best work and (4) bridge to better representation that authentically reflects our players.

In fiscal year 2021, we published our Company-wide gender and racial/ethnic representation for the first time which will allow our communities and stakeholders to measure our progress. To accelerate this progress with respect to representation, we strive to (1) create an inclusive culture that welcomes different viewpoints and enables employees to do the best work of their careers, (2) equip our leaders with training and education that increases understanding and provides them with the tools and behaviors to be inclusive managers that advocate for equity, inclusion, and diversity and (3) evaluate people processes with an eye to systemic inclusion and execution of inclusive behaviors and practices.

Our commitments to inclusion, diversity and equity extend to compensating our employees fairly based on the work that they perform. We consider our pay equity philosophy at each stage at which compensation decisions are made, including when hiring and promoting employees and through our annual review cycle. In addition, we annually partner with an independent outside firm to review employees’ pay and ensure our compensation philosophy and practices are fair and free from unconscious bias, resulting in equitable pay.

Talent Acquisition, Development and Retention

Our talent planning and hiring strategies are aligned with our strategic vision and where we need to invest and develop as a business. We target talent that possess skills that are critical to the future of our business, including investing in the development and growth of the next generation of diverse talent through community outreach and STEAM education.

We are focused on promoting the total wellness of our people and maintain resources, programs and services to support employees' physical, mental, familial and financial health. We offer a wide range of benefits, such as comprehensive health insurance and time-off and leave programs, including specialized programs around key life events. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we introduced temporary expansions of our benefits programs that we determined were in the best interests of our employees and our communities. These include payments to assist with work from home costs and care needs and a pandemic care leave program.

All regular, full-time employees are asked to complete an Engagement Survey twice per year, which helps EA understand how to improve the employee experience. We also conduct regular manager surveys, and during fiscal year 2021, offered ongoing access to targeted surveys to better understand the needs of our employees as they navigated the COVID-19 pandemic. Results of all employee surveys are evaluated and shared across the organization and inform opportunities for further improvement in our people practices.

Investor Information

Our website address is www.ea.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We announce material financial information and business updates through our SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts, the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com, our blog at https://www.ea.com/news and through our Twitter account @EA. Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website, 2020 Impact Report and/or social media accounts are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report.

Company Information

We were incorporated originally in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500.

7
Information About Our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 26, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mr. Wilson has served as EA’s Chief Executive Officer and as a director of EA since September 2013. Prior to his appointment as our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wilson held several positions within the Company since joining EA in May 2000, including Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS from August 2011 to September 2013. Mr. Wilson also serves as chairman of the board of the privately-held World Surf League and is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Paley Center for Media. Mr. Wilson has served on the board of directors of Intel Corporation within the last five years.

Mr. Jorgensen has served as EA’s Chief Financial Officer since September 2012 and as EA’s Chief Operating Officer since April 2018. Prior to joining EA, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Levi Strauss & Co. from July 2009 to August 2012. From June 2007 to June 2009, Mr. Jorgensen served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Yahoo! Inc. Mr. Jorgensen earned his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and his undergraduate degree from Stanford University.

Ms. Miele has served as EA’s Chief Studios Officer since April 2018. Ms. Miele joined EA in March 1996 and has held several positions at the Company, including Executive Vice President, Global Publishing from April 2016 to April 2018, Senior Vice President of Americas Publishing from June 2014 to April 2016, and several senior roles in the Company's marketing organization.

Mr. Moss has served as EA’s Chief Technology Officer since July 2014. He served as Vice President of Market Places Technology, Science and Data at eBay Inc. from November 2011 to July 2014. Prior to joining eBay, he co-founded CrowdEye, Inc. and served as its Chief Executive Officer from October 2008 to November 2011. Prior to CrowdEye, Mr. Moss served in various technology roles, including leadership roles, at Microsoft Corporation for twenty years. Mr. Moss graduated from Princeton University.

Mr. Bruzzo has served as EA’s Executive Vice President, Marketing, Commercial and Positive Play since October 2020. From September 2014 to October 2020, Mr. Bruzzo served as EA’s Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining EA, he served as Senior Vice President at Starbucks Corporation from June 2011 to August 2014. Mr. Bruzzo graduated from Whitworth University.

Ms. Singh has served as EA’s Chief People Officer since October 2016. Ms. Singh was previously employed by EA from 2009 to 2013, serving as Vice President, Human Resources, EA Labels from 2011 to 2013. Prior to rejoining EA, Ms. Singh served as the Chief People Officer of Minted, LLC from January 2014 to October 2016. Ms. Singh earned both her undergraduate and graduate degrees from Rutgers University - New Brunswick.

Mr. Barker has served as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer since June 2003. From February 2012 to September 2012, he also served as Interim Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining EA, Mr. Barker was at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as its Vice President and Corporate Controller and at Deloitte & Touche as an audit partner. Mr. Barker serves on the Board of Directors of Gatepath, a non-profit organization, and on the Accounting Advisory Board for the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame.

Mr. Schatz has served as EA’s General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since June 2014. Mr. Schatz joined EA in 1999, and prior to his current role, he served as Deputy General Counsel and as Vice President from 2006 to 2014. Mr. Schatz earned his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, and received his undergraduate degree from Pomona College. Mr. Schatz is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts.

8
Item 1A: Risk Factors