Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risks, including changes to foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity investment risk, and inflation.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We have foreign currency risks related to our revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, have in the past, and may in the future, negatively affect our revenue and other operating results as expressed in U.S. dollars.

We have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of transaction gains or losses related to revaluing monetary asset and liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. At this time, we have not entered into, but in the future we may enter into, derivatives or other financial instruments in an attempt to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. It is difficult to predict the effect hedging activities would have on our results of operations. Foreign currency losses of $129 million, $105 million, and $213 million were recognized in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, as interest and other income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of income. 

Interest Rate Sensitivity

Our exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to interest earned and market value on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.

Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities consist of cash, certificates of deposit, time deposits, money market funds, U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, and investment grade corporate debt securities. Our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. Changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, and the market value of those securities. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease of $794 million and $525 million in the market value of our available-for-sale debt securities as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Any realized gains or losses resulting from such interest rate changes would only occur if we sold the investments prior to maturity.

Equity Investment Risk

Our equity investments are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could have a material impact on the carrying value of our holdings. We continually evaluate our equity investments in privately-held companies. 

Our equity investments are investments in equity securities of privately-held companies without readily determinable market values. We elected to account for most of our equity investments using the measurement alternative, which is cost, less any impairment, adjusted for changes in fair value resulting from observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. We perform a qualitative assessment at each reporting date to determine whether there are triggering events for impairment. The qualitative assessment considers factors such as, but not limited to, the investee's financial condition and business outlook; industry and sector performance; economic or technological environment; and other relevant events and factors affecting the investee. Valuations of our equity investments are complex due to the lack of readily available market data and observable transactions. Volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets, including recent and ongoing effects related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which requires significant judgments, could result in a material impairment charge on our equity investments. Equity investments accounted for under the equity method were immaterial as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Our equity investments had a carrying value of $6.23 billion as of December 31, 2020.

For additional information about our equity investments, see Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 5 — Equity Investments, and Note 6 — Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, and "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part II, Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

76
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data