ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our financial position is exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency exchange risk, commodity price risk, credit and capital market risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk. We have seen an increase in these risks and related uncertainties with increased volatility in oil and gas prices and the financial markets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Our drilling contracts in foreign countries generally provide for payment in U.S. dollars. Historically, in Argentina, while the contracts were denominated in the U.S. dollar, we were paid in Argentine pesos. We are currently receiving some customer payments in U.S. dollars, but we will likely receive future payments in Argentine pesos as we have in the past. The Argentine branch of one of our second‑tier subsidiaries remits U.S. dollars to its U.S. parent by converting the Argentine pesos into U.S. dollars through the Argentine Foreign Exchange Market and repatriating the U.S. dollars. In the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. As such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in Argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating U.S. dollars even if we are able to negotiate the contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks. At September 30, 2021, a hypothetical decrease in value of 10 percent would result in a decrease in value of our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Argentine pesos by approximately $2.5 million.

Argentina’s economy is currently considered highly inflationary, which is defined as cumulative inflation rates exceeding 100 percent in the most recent three‑year period based on inflation data published by the respective governments. Nonetheless, all of our foreign operations use the U.S. dollar as the functional currency and local currency monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars with gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in current results of operations.

  2021 FORM 10-K  | 54
Commodity Price Risk

The demand for drilling services and solutions is derived from exploration and production companies spending money to explore and develop drilling prospects in search of crude oil and natural gas. Their spending is driven by their cash flow and financial strength, which is affected by trends in crude oil and natural gas commodity prices. Crude oil prices are determined by a number of factors including global supply and demand, the establishment of and compliance with production quotas by oil exporting countries, worldwide economic conditions and geopolitical factors. Crude oil and natural gas prices have historically been volatile and very difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. While current energy prices are important contributors to positive cash flow for customers, expectations about future prices and price volatility are generally more important for determining future spending levels. This volatility can lead many exploration and production companies to base their capital spending on much more conservative estimates of commodity prices. As a result, demand for drilling services and solutions is not always purely a function of the movement of commodity prices.

Credit and Capital Market Risk

Customers may finance their exploration activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Any deterioration in the credit and capital markets, as experienced in the past, can make it difficult for customers to obtain funding for their capital needs. A reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices or a reduction of available financing may result in customer credit defaults or reduced demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we may need to access capital markets to obtain financing. Our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, oil and gas prices, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of the drilling and overall oil and gas industry, and the liquidity of the capital markets. Many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets are outside of our control. No assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Further, we attempt to secure favorable prices through advanced ordering and purchasing for drilling rig components. While these materials have generally been available at acceptable prices, there is no assurance the prices will not vary significantly in the future. Any fluctuations in market conditions causing increased prices in materials and supplies could have a material adverse effect on future operating costs.

Interest Rate Risk

Our interest rate risk exposure results primarily from short‑term rates, mainly LIBOR‑based, on any borrowings from our revolving credit facility. There were no outstanding borrowings under this facility at September 30, 2021, and our outstanding debt consisted of $1.0 billion (face amount) in senior unsecured notes, of which $487.1 million is classified as current. In September 2021, we issued $550.0 million principal amount of senior unsecured notes, which have a fixed rate of 2.90 percent, and delivered a conditional notice, satisfied on September 29, 2021, of optional full redemption for all of the outstanding 4.65 percent senior unsecured notes, which have a carrying value of $487.1 million. The fair value of the 4.65 percent senior unsecured notes was estimated to be $541.6 million and $534.5 million for fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively, and the fair value of the 2.90 percent senior unsecured notes was estimated to be $554.3 million at September 30, 2021.

Equity Price Risk

On September 30, 2021, we had equity securities with a total fair value of $13.9 million compared to $7.3 million at September 30, 2020. A hypothetical 10 percent decrease in the market price for our marketable equity securities as of September 30, 2021 would decrease the fair value by $1.4 million. We make no specific plans to sell securities, but rather sell securities based on market conditions and other circumstances. These securities are subject to a wide variety and number of market‑related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. 

At November 8, 2021, the total fair value of our equity securities increased to approximately $16.0 million. We continually monitor the fair value of the investments but are unable to predict future market volatility and any potential impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  2021 FORM 10-K  | 55
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA