PART I

Item 1. Business.

Overview

Jefferies Financial Group Inc. ("Jefferies," "we," "our" or the "Company") is engaged in investment banking and capital markets, asset management and direct investing. Jefferies Group LLC ("Jefferies Group"), our largest subsidiary, was established in 1962 and is now the largest independent full-service global investment banking firm headquartered in the U.S.

Our strategy focuses on strengthening and expanding our core businesses of Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Asset Management, while continuing to simplify our structure and return capital to our shareholders. We are simplifying our structure through a managed transformation of our direct investing, or "Merchant Banking," business, which, to date, has included divestitures, special distributions to shareholders of assets, as well as transfers of financial assets out of our Merchant Banking portfolio and into Jefferies Group. We anticipate additional transactions as our transformation is completed. Some of these transactions have generated significant excess liquidity; some of these transactions have also reduced the future receipt of periodic distributions from subsidiaries to the parent company. In keeping with our strategy, a meaningful portion of the proceeds of these transactions has been returned to shareholders through share repurchases. During the past three fiscal years, we have returned to shareholders almost $3.4 billion through share repurchases and dividends.

Our executive offices are located at 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022, as is the global headquarters of Jefferies Group. Our primary telephone number is (212) 460-1900 and our website address is www.jefferies.com. At November 30, 2020, we had 4,945 full-time employees, including 3,922 full-time employees at Jefferies Group. Jefferies Group retains a credit rating separate from Jefferies and remains a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reporting company.

The discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors presented in Item 1A of Part I and the Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 of Part II.

Recent Events

During the first quarter of 2020, we changed our internal structure with regard to our operating segments. Previously, our segments consisted of (1) Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management, which included all of the financial results of Jefferies Group; (2) Merchant Banking; and (3) Corporate. In the first quarter, we appointed co-Presidents of Asset Management and created a separate fourth operating segment that consists of the asset management activity previously included in our Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management segment, together with asset management activity previously included in our Merchant Banking segment.

During 2020, we repurchased a total of 42,134,910 of our common shares for $812.7 million, or an average price per share of $19.29.

Investment Banking and Capital Markets

Investment Banking and Capital Markets focuses on Investment Banking, Equities and Fixed Income. We primarily serve institutional investors, corporations and government entities.

Investment Banking

We provide our clients around the world with a full range of financial advisory, equity underwriting and debt underwriting services. Our services are enhanced by our deep industry expertise, our global distribution capabilities and our senior level commitment to our clients.

Over 950 investment banking professionals operate in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and are organized into industry, product and geographic coverage groups. Our industry coverage groups include Consumer; Energy; Financial Services; Healthcare; Industrials; Technology; Media and Telecommunications; Real Estate; Gaming and Lodging; Financial Sponsors and Public Finance. Our product coverage groups include advisory (which comprises both mergers and acquisitions and restructuring and recapitalization expertise), equity underwriting and debt underwriting. Our geographic coverage groups include teams based in major cities in the United States, London, Frankfurt, Paris, Milan, Amsterdam, Stockholm, Mumbai, Hong Kong, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Zurich.

1

Advisory Services

We provide mergers and acquisition and restructuring and recapitalization services to companies, financial sponsors and government entities. In the mergers and acquisition area, we advise business owners and corporations on corporate sales and divestitures, acquisitions, mergers, tender offers, spinoffs, joint ventures, strategic alliances and takeover and proxy fight defense. In the restructuring and recapitalization area, we provide companies, bondholders and lenders a full range of restructuring advisory capabilities as well as expertise in the structuring, valuation and placement of securities issued in recapitalizations.

Equity Underwriting

We provide a broad range of equity financing capabilities to companies and financial sponsors. These capabilities include private placements of equity; initial public offerings, including initial public offerings for special acquisition companies; follow-on offerings; block trades and equity-linked convertible securities transactions.

Debt Underwriting

We provide a wide range of debt and acquisition financing capabilities for companies, financial sponsors and government entities. We focus on structuring, underwriting and distributing public and private debt, including investment grade debt, high yield bonds, leveraged loans, municipal debt, mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, and liability management solutions.

Corporate Lending

Jefferies Finance LLC ("Jefferies Finance"), a 50/50 joint venture between Jefferies Group and Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, is a commercial finance company that structures, underwrites and syndicates primarily senior secured loans to corporate borrowers and manages proprietary and third-party investments in middle market and broadly syndicated loans. Jefferies Finance conducts its operations primarily through two business lines, Leveraged Finance Arrangement and Portfolio and Asset Management. Jefferies Finance typically syndicates to third-party investors substantially all of its arranged volume. Its Portfolio and Asset Management business line manages a broad portfolio of assets under management comprised of portions of loans it has arranged, as well as loan positions that it has purchased in the primary and secondary markets. The Portfolio and Asset Management business is comprised of three registered Investment Advisors: Jefferies Finance, Apex Credit Partners LLC and JFIN Asset Management LLC, which each separately focus on investments in cash flow and traditional asset-based revolving credit, collateralized loan obligations which invest in predominately broadly syndicated loans and proprietary and third-party investments in middle market loans held in private funds and separately managed accounts. 

Equities

Equities Research, Capital Markets

We provide our clients full-service equities research, sales and trading capabilities across global securities markets. We earn commissions or spread revenue by executing, settling and clearing transactions for clients across these markets in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, American depository receipts, global depository receipts, exchange-traded funds, exchange-traded and over-the-counter ("OTC") equity derivatives, convertible and other equity-linked products and closed-end funds. Our equity research, sales and trading efforts are organized across three geographical regions: the Americas; Europe and the Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific. Our clients are primarily institutional market participants such as mutual funds, hedge funds, investment advisors, pension and profit sharing plans, and insurance companies. Through our global research team and sales force, we maintain relationships with our clients, distribute investment research and strategy, trading ideas, market information and analyses across a range of industries and receive and execute client orders. Our equity research covers over 2,500 companies around the world and a further more than 700 companies are covered by eight leading local firms in Asia Pacific with which we maintain alliances.

Equity Finance

Our Equity Finance business provides financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services. We offer prime brokerage services in the U.S. that provide hedge funds, money managers and registered investment advisors with execution, financing, clearing, outsourced trading, reporting and administrative services. We finance our clients' securities positions through margin loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other acceptable liquid collateral. We earn an interest spread equal to the difference between the amount we pay for funds and the amount we receive from our clients. We also operate a 

2

matched book in equity and corporate bond securities, whereby we borrow and lend securities versus cash or liquid collateral and earn a net interest spread. We offer selected prime brokerage clients the option of custodying their assets at an unaffiliated U.S. broker-dealer that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company. Under this arrangement, we directly provide our clients with all customary prime brokerage services.

Wealth Management

We provide tailored wealth management services designed to meet the needs of high net worth individuals, their families and their businesses, private equity and venture funds and small institutions. Our advisors provide access to all of our institutional execution capabilities and deliver other financial services. Our open architecture platform affords clients access to products and services from both our firm and from a variety of other major financial services institutions.

Fixed Income

Fixed Income Capital Markets

We provide our clients with sales and trading of investment grade corporate bonds, U.S. and European government and agency securities, municipal bonds, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, leveraged loans, consumer loans, high yield and distressed securities, emerging markets debt, interest rate and credit derivative products, as well as foreign exchange trade execution and securitization capabilities. Jefferies LLC is designated as a Primary Dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Jefferies International Limited is designated in similar capacities for several countries in Europe. Additionally, through the use of repurchase agreements, we act as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and obtain funding for various of our inventory positions. We trade and make markets globally in cleared and uncleared swaps and forwards referencing, among other things, interest rates, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, credit indexes and asset-backed security indexes. 

Our strategists and economists provide ongoing commentary and analysis of the global fixed income markets. In addition, our fixed income desk strategists provide ideas and analysis to clients across a variety of fixed income products.

Other

We make principal investments in private equity and hedge funds managed by third-parties as well as, from time to time, take on strategic investment positions.

Berkadia

Berkadia Commercial Mortgage Holding LLC ("Berkadia") is a 50/50 joint venture with Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. that provides capital solutions, investments sales advisory and mortgage servicing for multifamily and commercial real estate. Berkadia originates commercial real estate loans, primarily in respect of multifamily housing units, for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Authority using their underwriting guidelines and will typically sell the loans to such entities shortly after the loans are funded with Berkadia retaining the mortgage servicing rights. For loans sold to Fannie Mae, Berkadia assumes a shared loss position throughout the term of each loan, with a maximum loss percentage of approximately one-third of the original principal balance. Berkadia also originates and brokers commercial/multifamily mortgage loans which are not part of the government agency programs. 

In addition, Berkadia originates loans for its own balance sheet. These loans provide interim financing to borrowers who intend to refinance the loan with longer-term loans from an eligible government agency or other third-party. Berkadia also provides services related to the acquisition and disposition of multifamily real estate projects, including brokerage services, asset review, market research, financial analysis and due diligence support and is a servicer of U.S. commercial real estate loans, performing primary, master and special servicing functions for U.S. government agency programs, commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions, banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. 

Asset Management

Our Asset Management segment includes both the asset management operations within Jefferies Group as well as those that were previously part of our Merchant Banking segment. Under the combined Leucadia Asset Management ("LAM") umbrella, we manage and provide services to a diverse group of alternative asset management platforms across a spectrum of investment strategies and asset classes. LAM offers institutional clients an innovative range of investment strategies through its affiliated managers. Our products are currently offered to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other 

3

institutional investors globally. The investment products under LAM range from multi-manager products, such as Schonfeld Fundamental Equities, Dymon Asia Capital and Weiss Multi-Strategy, to niche equity long/short strategies, such as Riposte Capital and Kathmandu, to credit strategies, such as Point Bonita Capital and 3|5|2 Capital. We offer our affiliated asset managers access to capital, operational infrastructure and global marketing and distribution. We often invest seed or additional strategic capital for our own account in the strategies offered by us and associated third-party asset managers in which we have an interest.

We continue to expand our asset management efforts. During 2020, we established a strategic relationship with Dymon Asia Capital (Asian multi-strategy) and FourSixThree Capital (distressed credit and special situations) and added Riposte Capital (contrarian long/short equity) and 3|5|2 Capital (consumer-focused asset-backed securities) to our LAM platform.

Merchant Banking

We own a diverse portfolio of businesses and investments that have the potential for significant value appreciation. The structure of each of our investments was tailored to the unique opportunity each transaction presented. Our investments may be reflected in our consolidated results as consolidated subsidiaries, equity investments, securities or in other ways, depending on the structure of our specific holdings. We continue to evaluate new investments, primarily in financial services. We are in the process of a managed transformation of Merchant Banking, with the intention of selling to third-parties or restructuring under LAM all of our Merchant Banking businesses. Continuing changes in the mix of our businesses and investments therefore should be expected.

Our Merchant Banking portfolio currently includes primarily investments in Linkem, 56% (fixed wireless broadband services in Italy); Vitesse Energy, LLC ("Vitesse Energy Finance"), 97%, and JETX Energy, LLC ("JETX Energy"), 98%, (oil and gas); real estate, primarily HomeFed LLC ("HomeFed"), 100%; Idaho Timber, 100% (manufacturing); and FXCM Group, LLC ("FXCM"), 50% voting interest in FXCM and a majority of all distributions in respect of the equity of FXCM (provider of online foreign exchange trading services). The net book value of our entire Merchant Banking portfolio was $1.9 billion at November 30, 2020.

Linkem

We own 56% (48% voting) of Linkem S.p.A., the largest fixed wireless broadband service provider in Italy with approximately 710,000 subscribers. Its broadband service utilizes its proprietary fixed wireless network on its valuable nationwide 3.5GHz spectrum holdings. The 3.5GHz frequency band has been designated globally as one of the core bands for 5G services, placing Linkem in a strong position to continue its growth in a 5G environment. Linkem launched its first 5G towers in late 2020 and plans to rapidly increase its network coverage and service offerings over the coming years as it upgrades to 5G, adds subscribers and leverages its assets. Expansion and customer acquisition costs are expected to result in operating losses over the next couple of years. 

Our initial investment in Linkem was made in July 2011. Since that time, we have funded much of Linkem's growth and become its largest shareholder. We own approximately 42% of the common shares of Linkem, as well as convertible preferred stock, which is automatically convertible to common shares in 2022, and warrants. If all of our convertible preferred stock was converted and warrants were exercised, it would increase our ownership to approximately 56% of Linkem's common equity at November 30, 2020. We have approximately 48% of the total voting securities of Linkem. Additionally, we have made shareholder loans to Linkem with principal outstanding of $102.4 million at November 30, 2020. The net book value of our investment in Linkem was $199.0 million at November 30, 2020. 

Vitesse Energy Finance

Vitesse Energy Finance is our 97% owned consolidated subsidiary that acquires, invests and monetizes non-operated working interests and royalties predominantly in the Bakken Shale of the Williston Basin in North Dakota. These non-operated interests include working interests in flowing wells, leases that are held by production and undeveloped drilling locations within drilling spacing units ("DSUs"). The DSUs are expected to be developed via horizontal wells in the future by Vitesse Energy Finance's dozen plus operating partners. As Vitesse Energy Finance's operators convert the DSUs (undeveloped acreage) into flowing horizontal wells, our working interests and minerals are converted into cash flows produced by the flowing wells. Vitesse Energy Finance has acquired more than 47,200 net acres of leaseholds and has an interest in over 5,000 producing wells (106 net wells) with current production as of November 2020 of 10,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. In addition, Vitesse Energy Finance has an interest in approximately 600 wells (14 net wells) that are shut-in due to offset development activity or low oil prices. Vitesse Energy Finance also has 876 gross wells (22.5 net wells) that are currently drilling, completing, or permitted for 

4

future drilling. Our strategic priorities for Vitesse Energy Finance are to selectively add to our core acreage, participate in future profitable horizontal wells, increase aggregate cash flow, limit the volatility of cash flows by appropriately hedging oil and profitably sell selective assets when appropriate. The net book value of our investment in Vitesse Energy Finance was $516.3 million at November 30, 2020.

Real Estate Assets

Our real estate assets primarily consist of our 100% ownership of HomeFed, a developer and owner of residential and mixed-use real estate properties in California, New York, Florida, Virginia and South Carolina. HomeFed's key assets include Otay Ranch, a master planned community that is under development in Chula Vista, CA, made up of approximately 4,450 acres of land entitled for 13,050 total units; and Renaissance Plaza, a mixed-use asset in Brooklyn, NY, comprised of an office building, garage and hotel. The net book value of our investment in real estate assets was $531.6 million at November 30, 2020. 

Financial Information about Segments

Our operating and reportable segments consist of Investment Banking and Capital Markets; Asset Management; Merchant Banking; and Corporate. Our financial information regarding our reportable segments is contained in Note 27 in our consolidated financial statements.

Human Capital

We are focused on the durability, health and long-term growth and development of our business, as well as our long-term contribution to our shareholders, our clients, our employees, the communities in which we live and work, and society in general. Instrumental to all of this is our culture, which derives from our employees.

As of November 30, 2020, we had 4,945 employees located throughout the world. Our largest subsidiary, Jefferies Group, had 3,922 employees globally with approximately 64%, 24% and 12% of its workforce distributed across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, respectively. Jefferies Group employees are predominately in our Investment Banking and Capital Markets segment or the support thereof. During fiscal 2020, Jefferies Group overall employee levels increased by 3% as we have continued to expand our presence in Asia, particularly in our Equities business, and we have continued to grow certain of our businesses in Europe. During fiscal 2020, there was a slight decline in the overall percentage of our employees in our Asset Management segment due to the wind down of a wholly-owned asset management platform during the year.

Our ability to develop and retain our clients depends on the reputation, marketing efforts, capabilities and knowledge of our employees and our firm. Jefferies Group workforce is predominately composed of employees in roles such as investment bankers, salespeople, trading professionals, research professionals and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. In order to compete effectively and continue to provide best in class service to our clients, we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals. During 2020, our voluntary turnover rate was 8%. Our overall retention rate is very high in our view. We believe our culture, our effort to maintain a meritocracy in terms of opportunity and our continued evolution and growth contribute to our success in attracting and retaining strong talent. 

We had 931 employees in our Merchant Banking segment as of November 30, 2020, which were predominantly located in the U.S. The majority of these individuals are employed by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Idaho Timber. As with most manufacturing operations, safety is a key component of the overall process and Idaho Timber has a multitude of safety programs in place designed to protect the health and well-being of its employees. These programs and other employee-focused initiatives help Idaho Timber retain experienced employees who create operating efficiencies critical to our overall success.

The foundation of our culture is our approach to employee engagement, diversity, equity and inclusion, which is summed up in our Corporate Social Responsibility Principle: Respect People. We have implemented a number of policies and measures focused on non-discrimination, sexual harassment prevention, health and safety, training and education and Employee Resource Groups. We embrace diversity and inclusion, which we believe fosters creativity, innovation and thought leadership through the infusion of new ideas and perspectives. Our Board of Directors has underscored our commitment to diversity by appointing diverse candidates to fill the seats of one-third of our independent directors. We have also made a commitment to building a culture that provides opportunities for all employees regardless of our differences. As a result, we are able to pool our collective insights and intelligence to provide fresh and innovate thinking for our clients. Solid internal partnerships with Employee Resource Groups allow us to develop and retain our wealth of diverse talent and ensure continued growth and success. We encourage you to review our Environmental, Social and Governance Report ("ESG Report") (located on our website) for more detailed information regarding our human capital programs and initiatives. Nothing on our website, including our ESG Report 

5

or sections thereof, is deemed incorporated by reference into this Report. In addition, for discussion of the risks relating to our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and productive employees, see "Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors."

Competition

All aspects of our business are intensely competitive. We compete primarily with large global bank holding companies that engage in capital markets activities, but also with other broker-dealers, asset managers and boutique investment banking firms. The large global bank holding companies have substantially greater capital and resources than we do. We believe that the principal factors affecting our competitive standing include the quality, experience and skills of our professionals, the depth of our relationships, the breadth of our service offerings, our ability to deliver consistently our integrated capabilities, and our culture, tenacity and commitment to serve our clients.

Regulation

Regulation in the United States. The financial services industry in which we operate is subject to extensive regulation. In the U.S., the SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of federal securities laws, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") is the federal agency responsible for the administration of laws relating to commodity interests (including futures, commodity options and swaps). In addition, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA") and the National Futures Association ("NFA") are self-regulatory organizations ("SROs") that are actively involved in the regulation of financial services businesses (securities businesses in the case of FINRA and commodities/futures businesses in the case of the NFA). In addition, broker-dealers that conduct securities activities involving municipal securities are subject to regulation by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ("MSRB"). In addition to federal regulation, we are subject to state securities regulations in each state and U.S. territory in which we conduct securities or investment advisory activities. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, NFA and state securities regulators conduct periodic examinations of broker-dealers, investment advisors, futures commission merchants ("FCMs") and swap dealers. The designated examining authority under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") for Jefferies LLC's activities as a broker-dealer is FINRA, and the designated self-regulatory organization under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act for Jefferies LLC's non-clearing FCM activities is the NFA. Financial services businesses are also subject to regulation and examination by state securities regulators and attorneys general in those states in which they do business. In addition, broker-dealers, investment advisors, FCMs and swap dealers must also comply with the rules and regulation of clearing houses, exchanges, swap execution facilities and trading platforms of which they are a member.

Broker-dealers are subject to SEC, FINRA, MSRB and state securities regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure and requirements, anti-money laundering efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of broker-dealer personnel including officers and employees (although state securities regulations are, in a number of cases, more limited). Registered investment advisors are subject to, among other requirements, SEC regulations concerning marketing, transactions with affiliates, custody of client assets, disclosures to clients, conflict of interest, insider trading and recordkeeping; and investment advisors that are also registered as commodity trading advisors or commodity pool operators are also subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA. FCMs, introducing brokers and swap dealers that engage in commodity options, futures or swap transactions are subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA. Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA, CFTC, NFA, other SROs of which the broker-dealer is a member, and state securities regulators, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or rules may directly affect the operations and profitability of broker-dealers, investment advisors, FCMs, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators and swap dealers. The SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NFA, state securities regulators and state attorneys general may conduct administrative proceedings or initiate civil litigation that can result in adverse consequences for Jefferies LLC, its affiliates, including affiliated investment advisors, as well as its and their officers and employees (including, without limitation, injunctions, censures, fines, suspensions, directives that impact business operations (including proposed expansions), membership expulsions, or revocations of licenses and registrations). 

SEC Regulation Best Interest ("Reg BI") requires that a broker-dealer and its associated persons to act in a retail customer's best interest and not place their own financial or other interests ahead of a retail customer's interests when recommending securities transactions or investment strategies, including recommendations of types of accounts. To meet this best interest standard, a broker-dealer must satisfy four component obligations including a disclosure obligation, a care obligation, a conflict of interest obligation, and a compliance obligation and both broker-dealers and investment advisors are required to provide disclosures about their standard of conduct and conflicts of interest. 

In addition, certain states, have proposed or adopted measures that would make broker-dealers, sales agents and investment advisors and their representatives subject to a fiduciary duty when providing products and services to customers. The SEC did 

6

not indicate an intent to pre-empt state regulation in this area and some of the state proposals would allow for a private right of action. Since our Wealth Management division makes recommendations to retail customers, it is required to comply with the obligations under the Reg BI and applicable state laws. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements. Several of our entities are subject to financial capital requirements that are set by regulation. Jefferies LLC is a dually-registered broker-dealer and FCM and is required to maintain net capital in excess of the greater of the SEC or CFTC minimum financial requirements. As a broker-dealer, Jefferies LLC is subject to the SEC's Uniform Net Capital Rule (the "Net Capital Rule"). Jefferies LLC has elected to compute its minimum net capital requirement in accordance with the "Alternative Net Capital Requirement" as permitted by the Net Capital Rule, which provides that a broker-dealer shall not permit its net capital, as defined, to be less than the greater of 2% of its aggregate debit balances (primarily customer-related receivables) or $250,000 ($1.5 million for prime brokers). Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit Jefferies LLC's operations, such as underwriting and trading activities, and financing customers' prime brokerage or other margin activities, in each case, that could require the use of significant amounts of capital, limit its ability to engage in certain financing transactions, such as repurchase agreements, and may restrict its ability to (i) to make payments of dividends, withdrawals or similar distributions or payments to a stockholder/parent or other affiliate, (ii) to make a redemption or repurchase of shares of stock, or (iii) to make an unsecured loan or advance to such shareholders or affiliates. As a carrying/clearing broker-dealer, under FINRA Rule 4110, FINRA could impose higher minimum net capital requirements than required by the SEC, and could restrict a broker-dealer from expanding business or require the broker-dealer to reduce its business activities. If the broker dealer also carries accounts for other broker dealers which are engaged in proprietary trading, it may need net capital of $7 million or tentative net capital of $25 million, depending on circumstances. As a non-clearing FCM, Jefferies LLC is required to maintain minimum adjusted net capital of $1.0 million.

SEC registered broker-dealers that will also register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers engaging in principal transactions of security-based swaps ("SBS") are subject to rules regarding capital, segregation and margin requirements. The SEC rules establish similar standards for an entity registering as a standalone SBS dealer. The CFTC has also approved swap dealer capital rules. Both the SEC rules governing a standalone SBS dealer and the CFTC rules governing swap dealers are expected to come into effect in late 2021. Under the rules there is a minimum net capital requirement for, among others, an entity that acts as a dealer in SBS or swaps, which is the greater of $20 million or 2% (that the SEC could, in the future, increase up to 4% or 8%) of a risk margin amount. The risk margin amount means the sum of (i) the total initial margin required to be maintained by the SEC SBS dealer or CFTC swap dealer at each clearing agency with respect to SBS or swap transactions cleared for SBS or swap customers and (ii) the total initial margin amount calculated by the SEC SBS dealer or CFTC swap dealer with respect to non-cleared SBS under new SEC rules and swaps under the CFTC rules.

Jefferies Group has two entities provisionally registered with the CFTC as swap dealers - Jefferies Financial Services Inc. ("JFSI") and Jefferies Financial Products LLC ("JFP"). Both JFSI and JFP are expected to comply with the SEC and CFTC capital rules for SBS and swap dealers, respectively, in the fourth quarter of 2021.

Under the Exchange Act, state securities regulators are not permitted to impose capital, margin, custody, financial responsibility, making and keeping records, bonding, or financial or operational reporting requirements on registered broker-dealers that differ from, or are in addition to, the requirements in those areas established under the Exchange Act, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Jefferies Group LLC is not subject to any regulatory capital rules.

See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of net capital calculations.

Regulation outside the United States. We are an active participant in the international capital markets and provide investment banking services internationally, primarily in Europe and Asia Pacific. As in the U.S., our international subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations proposed, promulgated and enforced by, among other regulatory bodies, the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities (including the European Banking Authority and European Securities and Market Authority), U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority ("BaFin"), Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada, Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Japan Financial Services Agency, the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. Every country in which we do business imposes upon us laws, rules and regulations similar to those in the U.S., including with respect to some form of capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, data protection regulations, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery rules, compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations and similar regulatory reform. 

7

Information about Jefferies on the Internet

We file annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the SEC. These SEC filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The following documents and reports are available on or through our website (www.jefferies.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish to, the SEC, as applicable:

• Code of Business Practice;

• Reportable waivers, if any, from our Code of Business Practice by our executive officers;

• Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines;

• Charter of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors;

• Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors;

• Charter of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors;

• Annual reports on Form 10-K;

• Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q;

• Current reports on Form 8-K;

• Beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5; and

• Any amendments to the above-mentioned documents and reports.

Shareholders may also obtain a printed copy of any of these documents or reports free of charge by sending a request to Jefferies Financial Group Inc., Investor Relations, 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 or by calling (212) 460-1900.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.