Part II ♦ Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

ITEM 7A – QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

As discussed earlier, the Company’s operations are highly dependent upon the interest rate-sensitive construction and steelmaking industries. Consequently, these marketplaces could experience lower levels of economic activity in an environment of rising interest rates or escalating costs (see Business Environment section included under Item 7 – MD&A of this Form 10-K).  

Management has considered the current economic environment and its potential impact to the Company’s business. Demand for aggregates products, particularly in the infrastructure construction market, is affected by federal and state budget and deficit issues. Further, delays or cancellations of capital projects in the nonresidential and residential construction markets could occur if companies and consumers are unable to obtain financing for construction projects or if consumer confidence is eroded by economic uncertainty. 

Demand in the residential construction market is affected by interest rates. During 2020, the Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds rate, and at December 31, 2020, the rate was 0.09%. The residential construction market accounted for approximately 24% of the Company’s aggregates shipments in 2020.  

Aside from these inherent risks from within its operations, the Company’s earnings are also affected by changes in short-term interest rates.  

Variable-Rate Borrowing Facilities 

At December 31, 2020, the Company had a $700 million Revolving Facility and a $400 million Trade Receivable Facility. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at a variable interest rate. As of December 31, 2020, the Company did not have any outstanding variable-rate debt. However, any future borrowings under the credit facilities or outstanding variable-rate debt are exposed to interest rate risk.  

Pension Expense 

The Company’s results of operations are affected by its pension expense. Assumptions that affect pension expense include the discount rate and, for the defined benefit pension plans only, the expected long-term rate of return on assets. Therefore, the Company has interest rate risk associated with these factors. The impact of hypothetical changes in these assumptions on the Company’s annual pension expense is discussed in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Pension Expense – Selection of Assumptions section included under Item 7 – MD&A of this Form 10-K. 

Energy Costs  

Energy costs, including diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and liquid asphalt, represent significant production costs of the Company. The Company may be unable to pass along increases in the costs of energy to customers in the form of price increases for the Company’s products. The cement product line and Magnesia Specialties business each have varying fixed-price agreements for a portion of their energy requirements. A hypothetical 10% change in the Company’s energy prices in 2021 as compared with 2020, assuming constant volumes, would change 2021 energy expense by $23.1 million.  

Commodity Risk 

Cement is a commodity and competition is based principally on price, which is highly sensitive to changes in supply and demand. Prices are often subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions beyond the Company’s control. Increases in the production capacity of industry participants or increases in cement imports tend to create an oversupply of such products leading to an imbalance between supply and demand, which can have a negative impact on product prices. There can be no assurance that product prices will not decline in the future or that such declines will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A hypothetical 10% change in sales price of the cement product line would impact cement product line revenues by $45.3 million.  

Cement is a key raw material in the production of ready mixed concrete. The Company may be unable to pass along increases in the costs of cement and raw materials to customers in the form of price increases for the Company’s products. A hypothetical 10% change in cement costs in 2021 compared with 2020, assuming constant volumes, would change the ready mixed concrete product line cost of sales by $25.5 million. While increases in cement pricing may negatively impact the profitability of the ready mixed concrete operations, the cement business would benefit, although the positive impact may not reflect a direct correlation to the impact to the ready mix business. 

Form 10-K ♦ Page 64  

A World-Class Organization Built for Success  

Part II ♦ Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data