PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

Summary

Murphy Oil Corporation is a global oil and natural gas exploration and production company, with both Onshore and Offshore operations and properties. As used in this report, the terms Murphy, Murphy Oil, we, our, its and Company may refer to Murphy Oil Corporation or any one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Company was originally incorporated in Louisiana in 1950 as Murphy Corporation. It was reincorporated in Delaware in 1964, at which time it adopted the name Murphy Oil Corporation, and was reorganized in 1983 to operate primarily as a holding company of its various businesses. In 2013, the U.S. downstream business was separated from Murphy Oil Corporation’s oil and natural gas exploration and production business. For reporting purposes, Murphy’s exploration and production activities are subdivided into three geographic segments, including the United States, Canada, and all other countries. Additionally, Corporate activities include interest income, interest expense, foreign exchange effects, corporate risk management activities and administrative costs not allocated to the segments. The Company’s corporate headquarters, originally located in El Dorado, Arkansas, were relocated to Houston, Texas in 2020. 

In addition to the following information about each business activity, data about Murphy’s operations, properties and business segments, including revenues by class of products and financial information by geographic area, are provided on pages 27 through 41, 74 through 76, 102 through 116 and 119 of this Form 10-K report.

Interested parties may obtain the Company’s public disclosures filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and other documents, by accessing the Investor Relations section of Murphy Oil Corporation’s Website at www.murphyoilcorp.com.

Exploration and Production

The Company explores for and produces crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids worldwide. The Company’s management team, based in Houston, Texas, directs the Company’s worldwide exploration and production activities. 

During 2020, Murphy’s principal exploration and production activities were conducted in the United States by wholly-owned Murphy Exploration & Production Company – USA (Murphy Expro USA) and its subsidiaries, in Canada by wholly-owned Murphy Oil Company Ltd. (MOCL) and its subsidiaries, and in Australia, Brazil, Brunei, Mexico and Vietnam by wholly-owned Murphy Exploration & Production Company – International (Murphy Expro International) and its subsidiaries. Murphy’s operations and production in 2020 were in the United States, Canada and Brunei (held for sale).

Unless otherwise indicated, all references to the Company’s offshore U.S. and total oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas production and sales volumes, and proved reserves include a noncontrolling interest in MP Gulf of Mexico, LLC (MP GOM; see further details below).

Murphy’s worldwide 2020 production on a barrel of oil equivalent basis (six thousand cubic feet of natural gas equals one barrel of oil) was 174,636 barrels of oil equivalent per day, a decrease of 5.9% compared to 2019.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations starting on page 28 for further details on 2020 production and sales volume.

United States 

In the United States, Murphy has production of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas primarily from fields in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Eagle Ford Shale area of South Texas. The Company produced approximately 101,300 barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids per day and approximately 94 MMCF of natural gas per day in the U.S. in 2020. These amounts represented 87.7% of the Company’s total worldwide oil and natural gas liquids and 26.5% of worldwide natural gas production volumes.

Offshore

During 2020, approximately 69% of total U.S. hydrocarbon production was produced at fields in the Gulf of Mexico, of which approximately 74% was derived from six fields, including Dalmatian, Kodiak, Marmarlard, Neidermeyer, St. Malo and Cascade/Chinook. Total average daily production in the Gulf of Mexico in 2020 was 69,700 barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids and approximately 66 MMCF of natural gas. Production in the Gulf of Mexico was significantly impacted by a record breaking hurricane year which resulted in shut-ins and loss of approximately 6.4 MBOED of production in 2020. At December 31, 2020, Murphy had total proved reserves for Gulf of Mexico fields of 144.4 million barrels of oil and natural gas liquids and 127 billion cubic feet of natural gas. 

1
In 2019, the Company completed a transaction with LLOG Exploration Offshore L.L.C. and LLOG Bluewater Holdings, L.L.C., (LLOG), which was effective January 1, 2019. Through this transaction, Murphy acquired strategic deepwater Gulf of Mexico assets.

In 2018, Murphy Expro USA and Petrobras America Inc. (PAI), a subsidiary of Petróleo Brasileiro S.A., closed a transaction among Murphy, PAI and MP Gulf of Mexico, LLC (MP GOM), a subsidiary of Murphy. The transaction had an effective date of October 1, 2018. MP GOM is now owned 80% by Murphy and 20% by PAI. Throughout this 10-K report, unless stated otherwise, financial and operational metrics relating to MP GOM include PAI’s 20% noncontrolling interest in MP GOM. 100% of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and cash flows of MP GOM are fully consolidated in the financial statements.

Below is a summary of Company’s major working interests in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Fields in development phase.

2 Field in appraisal phase.

Onshore

The Company holds rights to approximately 134 thousand gross acres in South Texas in the Eagle Ford Shale unconventional oil and natural gas play. During 2020, approximately 31% of total U.S. hydrocarbon production was produced in the Eagle Ford Shale. Total 2020 production in the Eagle Ford Shale area was 31,608 barrels of oil and liquids per day and approximately 27 MMCF per day of natural gas. At December 31, 2020, the Company’s proved reserves for the U.S. Onshore business totaled 130.9 million barrels of liquids and 192.5 billion cubic feet of natural gas. 

2
Canada 

In Canada, the Company holds working interests in the following: (a) a dry natural gas area at Tupper Montney (100% owned), (b) Kaybob Duvernay (operated), (c) liquids rich Placid Montney (non-operated), and (d) two non-operated offshore assets – the Hibernia and Terra Nova fields offshore Newfoundland in the Jeanne d’Arc Basin.

Onshore

Murphy has approximately 142 thousand gross acres of Tupper Montney mineral rights located in northeast British Columbia. Daily production in 2020 in onshore Canada averaged 9,200 barrels of liquids and approximately 261 MMCF of natural gas. Total onshore Canada proved liquids and natural gas reserves at December 31, 2020, were approximately 15.4 million barrels and 2.1 trillion cubic feet, respectively. 

The Company currently has a commitment for 483 MMCFD of natural gas processing capacity. In 2016, the Company completed its transaction to divest natural gas processing and sales pipeline assets that support Murphy’s Montney natural gas fields in the Tupper area. Connected with this sale, the Company entered into a commitment for 285 MMCFD of natural gas processing capacity for minimum monthly payments through 2051. In 2018, the Company entered into a further commitment, commencing November 2020 for an additional 198 MMCFD processing capacity through November 2040. 

The Company holds a 70% operated working interest in Kaybob Duvernay lands and a 30% non-operated working interest in liquids rich Placid Montney lands, both in Alberta. The Company has approximately 336 thousand gross acres of Kaybob Duvernay and Placid Montney mineral rights.

Offshore

Murphy has a 6.5% working interest in Hibernia Main, a 4.3% working interest in Hibernia South Extension, and a 10.475% working interest at Terra Nova. Oil production in 2020 was approximately 4,893 barrels of oil per day for Hibernia. During 2020, Terra Nova did not operate as asset integrity work is currently being reviewed and undertaken. Total proved oil reserves at December 31, 2020 were approximately 14.1 million barrels of liquids and 3.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas.

Brunei

The Company has a working interest of 8.051% in Block CA-1 and a 30% working interest in Block CA-2; both assets are currently held for sale. 

In CA-1, on November 23, 2017, the governments of Brunei and Malaysia signed a Unitization Framework Agreement (UFA) which resulted in the Jagus East discovery in Block CA-1 forming part of a unitized field with the Gumusut-Kakap (GK) Unit in Malaysia. Following the UFA, on July 4, 2018, a Participation Agreement was signed which finalized the Company’s interest in the Brunei section of the GK Unit.

In CA-2, in December 2014, the governmental authority approved the Gas Holding Area (GHA) for the Kelidang Cluster (KC) development. The consortium is presently carrying out pre-development engineering related to the KC development with the aim to achieve project sanction in 2023.

The CA-1 and CA-2 blocks cover 1.4 million and 157,602 gross acres, respectively. Four exploration wells were drilled in Block CA-1 and seven exploration wells were drilled in Block CA-2 at the end of 2020. 

Australia

In Australia, the Company holds four offshore exploration permits and serves as operator of three of them. All of the permits have high quality 3D seismic data available and exploration studies are ongoing. None of the permits has a drilling commitment and all have options to renew beyond the current expiry dates. The Company is currently reviewing retaining the Australia permits.

Vietnam

The Company holds a 65% working interest in Blocks 144 and 145; and a 40% interest in Block 15-1/05 and Block 15-2/17. The Company is operator of each of the three Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs).

Block 15-1/05 contains the Lac Da Vang (LDV) discovered field and the consortium is progressing pre-development engineering. Declaration of Commerciality was made in January 2019 and the field Outline Development Plan was approved in 

3
August 2019. The Lac Da Trang (LDT) 1X exploration well, the last remaining commitment of the PSC, was completed in April 2019. The sanction of the LDV development is under review with PetroVietnam.

In Block 15-2/17, the Company is progressing study activity in anticipation of drilling an exploration commitment well by the end of 2022.

In Blocks 144 and 145, the Company acquired 2D seismic for these blocks in 2013 and undertook seabed surveys in 2015 and 2016. The remaining commitment for the acquisition, processing and interpretation of six hundred square kilometers (600 km2) of 3D seismic is tentatively scheduled for 2022. 

Mexico 

In March 2017, as part of Mexico’s fourth phase, round one deepwater auction, Murphy was awarded Block 5. Murphy is the operator of the Block with a 40% working interest. Block 5 is located in the deepwater Salinas Basin covering approximately 640,000 gross acres (2,600 square kilometers), with water depths ranging from 2,300 to 3,500 feet (700 to 1,100 meters). The initial exploration period for the license is four years and includes a commitment to drill one exploration well which was drilled in 2019. A further exploration well is planned for 2021-2022.

Brazil

The Company holds an interest in 9 blocks in the offshore regions of the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin (SEAL) in Brazil (SEAL-M-351, SEAL-M-428, SEAL-M-430, SEAL-M-501, SEAL-M-503, SEAM-M-505, SEAL-M-573, SEAL-M-575 and SEAL-M-637). ExxonMobil is the operator of the blocks. Murphy has a 20% working interest, ExxonMobil has a 50% working interest and Enauta Energia SA holds a 30% working interest. 

Murphy has also farmed into 3 additional blocks in the Portiguar Basin (POT-M-857, POT-M-863, and POT-M-865) with a 30% working interest; Wintershall Dea is the operator.

Murphy’s total acreage position in Brazil as of December 31, 2020 is approximately 2,452,568 gross acres, offsetting several major Petrobras discoveries. There are no well commitments.

4
Proved Reserves

Total proved reserves for crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas as of December 31, 2020 are presented in the following table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes proved developed reserves of 14.2 MMBOE, consisting of 12.7 MMBBL oil, 0.6 MMBBL NGLs, and 5.7 BCF natural gas, attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

2 Includes proved undeveloped reserves of 3.2 MMBOE, consisting of 2.9 MMBBL oil, 0.1 MMBBL NGLs, and 0.8 BCF natural gas, attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

3 Includes proved reserves of 17.4 MMBOE, consisting of 15.6 MMBBL oil, 0.7 MMBBL NGLs, and 6.5 BCF natural gas, attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

4 Includes proved natural gas reserves to be consumed in operations as fuel of 72.0 BCF and 108.8 BCF for the U.S. and Canada, respectively, with 1.6 BCF attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

Murphy Oil’s 2020 total proved reserves and proved undeveloped reserves are reconciled from 2019 as presented in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 For purposes of these computations, natural gas sales volumes are converted to equivalent barrels of oil using a ratio of six MCF of natural gas to one barrel of oil.

2 Includes 17.4 MMBOE and 3.2 MMBOE for total proved and proved undeveloped reserves, respectively, attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

5
Proved Reserves (Cont’d.)

During 2020, Murphy’s total proved reserves decreased by 110.1 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBOE). The decrease in reserves principally relates to less capital allocation over the next five years toward onshore shale production growth resulting in a transfer of 164.7 MMBOE to probable, reduced price resulting in a loss of 41.8 MMBOE and 2020 production of 63.9 MMBOE; partially offset by improved base performance of 30 MMBOE plus extensions and discoveries of 126 MMBOE in Onshore Canada, 16 MMBOE in the Eagle Ford Shale, and 8 MMBOE in Offshore U.S. Gulf of Mexico and east Canada. 

Murphy’s total proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2020 decreased 48.6 MMBOE from a year earlier. The proved undeveloped reserves reported in the table as extensions and discoveries during 2020 were predominantly attributable to three areas: the onshore Canada area of Tupper Montney, the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas, and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Each of these areas had active development work ongoing during the year. The majority of proved undeveloped reserves associated with revisions of previous estimates was the result of reduced capital expenditures in the Eagle Ford Shale over the next five years. The majority of the proved undeveloped reserves migration to the proved developed category are attributable to drilling in the Eagle Ford Shale, Gulf of Mexico, Kaybob Duvernay, and Tupper Montney. 

The Company spent approximately $594 million in 2020 to convert proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. The Company expects to spend approximately $447 million in 2021, $526 million in 2022 and $314 million in 2023 to move currently undeveloped proved reserves to the developed category. The anticipated level of spending in 2021 primarily includes drilling and development in the Gulf of Mexico, Eagle Ford Shale and Tupper Montney areas. 

At December 31, 2020, proved reserves are included for several development projects, including oil developments at the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas; natural gas developments in Tupper Montney; deepwater Gulf of Mexico; and Kaybob Duvernay in onshore Canada. Total proved undeveloped reserves associated with various development projects at December 31, 2020 were approximately 304.1 MMBOE, which represent 43% of the Company’s total proved reserves.

Certain development projects have proved undeveloped reserves that will take more than five years to bring to production. The Company is currently executing a drilling and completion campaign in Tupper Montney in onshore Canada and operates deepwater fields in the Gulf of Mexico that have six and two undeveloped locations, respectively that exceed this five-year window. Two of the six Tupper Montney PUDs are already online and producing above expectations. Total reserves associated with the eight locations amount to approximately 2.7% of the Company’s total proved reserves at year-end 2020. The development of certain reserves extends beyond five years due to an ongoing drilling campaign that is close to completion and limited well slot availability, thus making it necessary to wait for depletion of other wells prior to initiating further development of these locations. 

Murphy Oil’s Reserves Processes and Policies

As per the SEC, proved oil and natural gas reserves are “those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward.” The SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves, as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” Proved reserves estimates will generally be revised only as additional geologic or engineering data become available or as economic conditions change. Moreover, estimates of proved reserves may be revised as a result of future operations, effects of regulation by governmental agencies or geopolitical or economic risks. Therefore, the proved reserves included in this report are estimates only and should not be construed as being exact quantities, and if recovered, could be more or less than the estimated amounts.

Murphy has established both internal and external controls for estimating proved reserves that follow the guidelines set forth by the SEC for oil and natural gas reporting. Certain qualified technical personnel of Murphy from the various exploration and production business units are responsible for the preparation of proved reserve estimates and these technical representatives provide the necessary information and maintain the data as well as the documentation for all properties.

Proved reserves are then consolidated and reported through the Corporate Reserves group. Murphy’s General Manager of Corporate Reserves (Reserves Manager) leads the Corporate Reserves group that also includes Corporate reserve engineers and support staff in which all are independent of the Company’s oil and natural gas operational management and technical personnel. The Reserves Manager joined Murphy in 2018 and has more than 20 years of industry experience. He has a Bachelor of Science and a Master of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering as well as a Master of Business Administration. The Reserves Manager is also a licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas. The Reserves Manager reports to the Chief Financial Officer and makes annual presentations to the Board of Directors about the Company’s reserves. The Reserves Manager and the Corporate reserve engineers review and discuss reserves estimates directly with the Company’s technical staff in order to make every effort to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. The Reserves Manager coordinates and oversees the third-party audits which are performed annually and under Company policy generally target coverage of at least one-third of the barrel oil-equivalent volume of the Company’s proved reserves. 

6
Murphy Oil’s Reserves Processes and Policies (Cont’d.)

The estimated proved reserves reported in this Form 10-K are prepared by Murphy’s employees. Internal audits may also be performed by the Reserves Manager and qualified engineering staff from areas of the Company other than the area being audited by third parties. In 2020, 94.8% of the Proved reserves were audited by third-party auditors and they were found to be within the acceptable 10% tolerance by each of the third party firms. Murphy engaged both Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott) and McDaniel & Associates Consultants Ltd. (McDaniel) to perform a reserves audit of 46.0% and 48.8% of the Company’s total proved reserves, respectively.

Each significant exploration and production business unit also maintains one or more Qualified Reserve Estimators (QRE) on staff. The QRE is responsible for estimating and evaluating reserves and other reserves information for his or her assigned area. The QRE may personally make the estimates and evaluations of reserves or may supervise and approve the estimation and evaluation thereof by others. A QRE is professionally qualified to perform these reserves estimates as a result of having sufficient educational background, professional training, and professional experience to enable him or her to exercise prudent professional judgment. Larger business units of the Company also employ a Regional Reserves Coordinator (RRC) who supervises the local QREs. The RRC is usually a senior QRE who has the primary responsibility for coordinating and submitting reserves information to senior management.

QRE qualification requires a minimum of five years of practical experience in petroleum engineering or petroleum production geology, with at least three years of such experience being in the estimation and evaluation of reserves, and either a bachelors or advanced degree in petroleum engineering, geology or other discipline of engineering or physical science from a college or university of recognized stature, or the equivalent thereof from an appropriate government authority or professional organization. Murphy provides annual training to all company reserves estimators to ensure SEC requirements associated with reserves estimation and Form 10-K reporting are fulfilled. The training includes materials provided to each participant that outlines the latest guidance from the SEC as well as best practices for many engineering and geologic matters related to reserves estimation.

The Company’s QREs maintain files containing pertinent data regarding each significant reservoir. Each file includes sufficient data to support the calculations or analogies used to develop the values. Examples of data included in the file, as appropriate, include: production histories; pertinent drilling and workover histories; bottom hole pressure data; volumetric, material balance, analogy, or other pertinent reserve estimation data; production performance curves; narrative descriptions of the methods and logic used to determine reserves values; maps and logs; and a signed copy of the documentation stating that, in their opinion, the reserves have been calculated, reviewed, documented, and reported in compliance with SEC regulations. When reserves calculations are completed by technical personnel with the support of the QREs and appropriately reviewed by RRCs, the Corporate reserves engineers and the Reserves Manager, the conclusions are reviewed and approved with the heads of the Company’s exploration and production business units and other senior management on an annual basis. The Company’s Controller’s department is responsible for preparing and filing reserves schedules within the Form 10-K report.

To ensure accuracy and security of reported reserves, the proved reserves estimates are coordinated in industry-standard software with access controls for approved users. In addition, Murphy complies with internal controls concerning the various business processes related to reserves. 

More information regarding Murphy’s estimated quantities of proved reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas for the last three years are presented by geographic area on pages 103 through 110 of this Form 10-K report. Also, Murphy currently has no oil and natural gas reserves from non-traditional sources. Murphy has not filed and is not required to file any estimates of its total proved oil or natural gas reserves on a recurring basis with any federal or foreign governmental regulatory authority or agency other than the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Annually, Murphy reports gross reserves of properties operated in the United States to the U.S. Department of Energy; such reserves are derived from the same data from which estimated proved reserves of such properties are determined.

Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids production and sales, and natural gas sales by geographic area with weighted average sales prices for each of the three years ended December 31, 2020 are shown on pages 36 through 38 of this Form 10-K report. 

Production expenses for the last three years in U.S. dollars per equivalent barrel are discussed beginning on page 33 of this Form 10-K report. 

Supplemental disclosures relating to oil and natural gas producing activities are reported on pages 102 through 117 of this Form 10-K report.

7
Acreage and Well Count 

At December 31, 2020, Murphy held leases, concessions, contracts or permits on developed and undeveloped acreage as shown by geographic area in the following table. Gross acres are those in which all or part of the working interest is owned by Murphy. Net acres are the portions of the gross acres attributable to Murphy’s interest.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain acreage held by the Company will expire in the next three years. 

Scheduled expirations in 2021 include 116 thousand net acres in Brunei, 35 thousand net acres in onshore Canada and 3 thousand net acres in the Gulf of Mexico.

Acreage currently scheduled to expire in 2022 include 4,521 thousand net acres in Vietnam (which can be retained with sanction of development plan), 47 thousand net acres in Brunei, 46 thousand net acres in the Gulf of Mexico and 22 thousand net acres in onshore Canada.

Scheduled expirations in 2023 include 75 thousand net acres in Brazil, 10 thousand net acres in onshore Canada and 16 thousand net acres in the Gulf of Mexico. 

As used in the three tables that follow, “gross” wells are the total wells in which all or part of the working interest is owned by Murphy, and “net” wells are the total of the Company’s fractional working interests in gross wells expressed as the equivalent number of wholly-owned wells. An “exploratory” well is drilled to find and produce crude oil or natural gas in an unproved area and includes delineation wells which target a new reservoir in a field known to be productive or to extend a known reservoir beyond the proved area. A “development” well is drilled within the proved area of an oil or natural gas reservoir that is known to be productive.

The following table shows the number of oil and natural gas wells producing or capable of producing at December 31, 2020.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

8
Acreage and Well Count (Cont’d.) 

Murphy’s net wells drilled in the last three years are shown in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Murphy’s drilling wells in progress at December 31, 2020 are shown in the following table. The year-end well count includes wells awaiting various completion operations. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Discontinued Operations

Malaysia – In July 2019, the Company closed a divestiture of its two subsidiaries conducting Malaysian operations, Murphy Sabah Oil Co., Ltd. and Murphy Sarawak Oil Co., Ltd., in a transaction with PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP) which was effective January 1, 2019. Total cash consideration received upon closing was $2.0 billion. A gain on sale of $985.4 million was recorded as part of discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Company has accounted for and reported the Malaysia business as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

Refining and Marketing – The Company decommissioned the Milford Haven refinery units and completed the sale of its remaining downstream assets in the U.K. in 2015 for cash proceeds of $5.5 million. The Company has accounted for and reported this U.K. downstream business as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In October 2019, the current owner of the former Milford Haven Refinery issued a completion certificate acknowledging the Company had satisfactorily completed all obligations regarding the decommissioning and demolition of the facility’s refinery equipment. 

Environmental, Health and Safety

We are subject to various international, foreign, national, state, provincial and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including related to the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal and remediation of petroleum products, wastewater and hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of such materials to the environment, including greenhouse gas emissions; wildlife, habitat and water protection; the placement, operation and decommissioning of production equipment; and the health and safety of our employees, contractors and communities where our operations are located. 

U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). CERCLA and similar state statutes impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of the conduct, on current and past owners or operators of a site where the release occurred and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Although CERCLA generally exempts “petroleum” from regulation, in the course of our operations, we may and could generate wastes that may fall within CERCLA’s definition of hazardous substances and may have disposed of these wastes at disposal sites owned and operated by others.

Water discharges. The U.S. Clean Water Act (CWA) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of produced water and other oil and natural gas wastes, into regulated waters. The U.S. Oil Pollution Act (OPA) imposes certain duties and liabilities on the owner or operator of a facility, 

9
vessel or pipeline that is a source or that poses the substantial threat of an oil discharge, or the lessee or permittee of the area in which a discharging offshore facility is located. OPA assigns joint and several liability, without regard to fault, to each liable party for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages. The OPA also requires owners and operators of offshore oil production facilities to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover costs that could be incurred in responding to an oil spill. 

U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) requirements. BOEM and BSEE have regulations applicable to lessees in federal waters that impose various safety, permitting and certification requirements applicable to exploration, development and production activities in the Gulf of Mexico, and also require lessees to have substantial U.S. assets and net worth or post bonds or other acceptable financial assurance that the regulatory obligations will be met.

 In April 2016, the BSEE enacted broad regulatory changes related to Gulf of Mexico well design, well control, casing, cementing, real-time monitoring, and subsea containment, among other items. These changes are known broadly as the Well Control Rule, and amendments to this rule were enacted in May 2019. Compliance is required over the next several years.

In July 2016, BOEM issued an updated Notice to Lessees and Operators (NTL) providing details on revised procedures BOEM used to determine a lessee’s ability to carry out decommissioning obligations for activities on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), including the Gulf of Mexico. This revised policy became effective in September 2016 and instituted new criteria by which the BOEM will evaluate the financial strength and reliability of lessees and operators active on the OCS. If the BOEM determines under the revised policy that a company does not have the financial ability to meet its decommissioning and other obligations, that company will be required to post additional financial security as assurance. In January 2017 BOEM extended the implementation timeline for the NTL by six months for properties which have co-lessees, and in February 2017 BOEM withdrew sole liability orders issued in December 2016 to allow time for the new administration to review the financial assurance program for decommissioning.

Air emissions and climate change. The U.S. Clean Air Act (CAA) and comparable state laws and regulations govern emissions of various air pollutants through the issuance of permits and other authorization requirements. Since 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has been monitoring and regulating GHG emissions, including carbon dioxide and methane, from certain sources in the oil and natural gas sector due to their association with climate change. An international climate agreement (the Paris Agreement) was agreed to at the 2015 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. Although the U.S. officially withdrew from the Paris Agreement on November 4, 2020, on January 20, 2021, President Biden began the 30-day process of rejoining the Paris Agreement, which became effective for the U.S. on February 19, 2021.

Murphy is currently required to report GHG emissions from its U.S. operations in the Gulf of Mexico and onshore in south Texas and in its Canadian onshore business in British Columbia and Alberta. In British Columbia and Alberta, Murphy is subject to a carbon tax on the purchase or use of many carbon-based fuels. Additionally, starting in 2017, a carbon tax began to be applied to certain operations in Alberta. Any limitation on, or further regulation of, greenhouse gases, including through a cap and trade system, technology mandate, emissions tax, or expanded reporting requirements, could restrict the Company’s operations, curtail demand for hydrocarbons generally and/or impose increased costs to operate and maintain facilities, install pollution emission controls and administer and manage emissions trading programs.

Endangered and threatened species. The U.S. Endangered Species Act was established to protect endangered and threatened species. If a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species’ habitat. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, and marine mammals under the Marine Mammal Protection Act.

Safety. The Company is subject to the requirements of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and comparable foreign and state laws that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that certain information regarding hazardous materials used or produced in Murphy’s operations be maintained and provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. In Canada, the Company is subject to Federal OH&S Legislation, the provincially-administered Occupational Health and Safety Act (Alberta), the Workers Compensation Act (British Columbia), and WHMIS - the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System. 

10
Human Capital Resources

Employees 

At Murphy, we believe in providing energy that empowers people, and that is what our 675 employees do every day. As of December 31, 2020, we had 425 office-based employees and 250 field employees, all of whom are guided by our mission, vision, values and behaviors. Together with the Executive Management Team, the Vice President of Human Resources and Administration is responsible for developing and executing our human capital management strategy. This includes the attraction, recruitment, development and engagement of talent to deliver on our strategy and the design of employee compensation, health and welfare benefits, and talent programs. We focus on the following factors in order to implement and develop our human capital strategy:

•Employee Compensation Programs 

•Employee Performance and Feedback

•Talent Development and Training

•Health and Welfare Benefits

•Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 

Employee Compensation Programs 

Our purpose, to empower people includes tying a portion of our employees pay to performance in a variety of ways, including incentive compensation and merit-based bonus programs, while maintaining the best interest of shareholders. We benchmark for market practices, and regularly review our compensation against the market to ensure it remains competitive to attract and retain the best talent. Our current practices align our employees’ compensation with the interests of our shareholders, and support our focus on cash flow generation, capital returns and environmental stewardship. For further detail on the Company’s compensation framework please see Exhibit 99.1 on Form 8-K filed on February 8, 2021 and the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of the forthcoming Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 12, 2021.

Employee Performance and Feedback

We are committed to efforts to enhance our employees’ professional growth and development through feedback that utilizes our internal performance management system (Murphy Performance Management - MPM). The purpose of Murphy’s MPM process is to show our commitment to the development of all employees and to better align rewards with Company and individual performance. The goals of the MPM process are the following: 

•Drive behavior to align with the Company’s mission, vision, values and behaviors

•Develop employee capabilities through effective feedback and coaching

•Maintain a process that is consistent throughout the organization to measure employee performance and are tied to Company and Shareholder interests

All employees’ performance is evaluated annually through self-assessments that are reviewed in discussions with supervisors. Employees’ performance is evaluated on various key performance indicators set annually, including behaviors that support our mission, vision, values and an assessment conducted by the employees’ direct supervisor. 

Talent Development and Training 

Employees are able to participate in continuous training and development, with the goal of equipping them for success and providing increased opportunities for growth at Murphy. Through our digital platform, My Murphy Learning, employees can access self-directed courses, external articles, and videos that cover topics such as business, technology, and productivity. Also, we are able to administer mandatory compliance training for our employees through My Murphy Learning, with a 100% utilization rate. Further, we strive to empower our leadership, so we sponsor several programs to address career advancement for emerging leaders and executives. Plus, we provide a tuition reimbursement program for those who choose to acquire additional knowledge to increase their effectiveness in their present position or to prepare the employee for advancement. 

We encourage employee engagement and solicit feedback through internal surveys and our employee driven Ambassador program to gain insights into workplace experiences. Employees are provided opportunities to raise suggestions and collaborate with leadership to improve programs and increase alignment.

To ensure that our human capital investment and development programs are effective, we track voluntary turnover. This data is shared on a regular basis with our leadership team, who use it in addition to other pertinent data to develop our human capital strategy. In 2020, our voluntary employee turnover was 6%. 

Health and Welfare Benefits

We believe that doing our part to aid in maintaining the health and welfare of our employees is a critical element in Murphy achieving success. As such, we provide our employees and their families with a comprehensive set of benefits that are competitive and aligned to Murphy’s mission, vision, values and behaviors. We also believe that the wellbeing of our employees is enhanced when they can give back to their local communities or charities either through the company “Impact – 

11
Murphy Makes a Difference” program or on their own and receive a company match for donations and additional vacation days to volunteer time. 

In addition, we offer an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) that provides confidential assistance to employees and their immediate family members for mental and physical wellbeing, as well as legal and financial issues. We also maintain an Ethics Hotline that is available to all our employees to report, anonymously if desired, any matter of concern. Communications to the hotline, which is facilitated by an independent third party, are routed to appropriate functions, Human Resources, Law or Compliance, for investigation and resolution. 

Response to COVID-19

We have taken a proactive approach to addressing the COVID-19 pandemic’s impact on our employees. We have implemented a mitigation and response program which is being led by our Incident Management Team (IMT), leveraging the advice and recommendations of infectious disease experts, establishing safety protocols for field workers and work from home procedures for office employees. In order to protect the health of our employees, we have balanced a carefully considered return to office policy that complies with local guidelines. 

During, the pandemic, we wanted to reinforce aligning our culture with our mission, vision, values and behaviors, so we have significantly increased leadership updates and management outreach in conjunction with CEO sponsored quarterly Town Hall events.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We are committed to fostering work environments that value diversity, equity, and inclusion. This commitment includes providing equal access to, and participation in, programs and services without regard to race, creed, religion, color, national origin, disability, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, age or stereotypes or assumptions based thereon. We welcome our employees’ differences, experiences and beliefs, and we are investing in a more productive, engaged, diverse and inclusive workforce. During 2020, under the leadership of our Vice President Human Resources and Administration, we expanded the responsibilities of our Director Talent Development to include the strategic management and planning for diversity and inclusion programs within the company, as well as enhancing our understanding, and providing mandatory training and development for all employees. In addition, our Board has had a woman representative for over 30 years, and currently includes two women directors. Our Nominating and Governance Committee is actively focused on issues of diversity and inclusion as part of its overall mandate. Also, our Board expanded the focus of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee to include Corporate Responsibility. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC).

We believe that it is important we attract employees with diverse backgrounds where we operate and are focusing on increasing the number of women and minorities in our workforce ensuring a vibrant talent pipeline. We acknowledge these efforts were hindered in 2020 by office closures and the reduction in force, both caused by the OPEC+ oil price disruptions and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic (discussed further in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 28), and we look to ongoing improvement in our diversity representation. 

12
Website Access to SEC Reports

Murphy Oil’s internet Website address is http://www.murphyoilcorp.com. The information contained on the Company’s Website is not part of this report on Form 10-K.

The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on Murphy’s Website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You may also access these reports at the SEC’s Website at http://www.sec.gov.

13
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS