PART IIITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURESTable of Contents

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As a result of our global operating, investment, acquisition, and financing activities, we are exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, and equity prices. To manage the volatility relating to these risks, we periodically purchase and/or sell derivative instruments including foreign currency forward and option contracts, commodity swap contracts, interest rate swap contracts, and treasury lock contracts. We use derivative instruments to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from shifts in market rates, as well as to hedge economic exposures. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

Foreign currency and commodity price risk

Foreign currency derivative instruments are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated sales/purchases to/from third parties as well as intercompany sales/purchases, intercompany principal and interest payments, and in connection with investments, acquisitions, or divestitures outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2021, we had exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the Mexican peso, euro, New Zealand dollar, and Canadian dollar. Approximately 100% of our balance sheet exposures and 82% of our forecasted transactional exposures for the year ending February 28, 2022, were hedged as of February 28, 2021.

Commodity derivative instruments are or may be used to hedge forecasted commodity purchases from third parties as either economic hedges or accounting hedges. As of February 28, 2021, exposures to commodity price risk which we are currently hedging include aluminum, corn, diesel fuel, natural gas, and wheat prices. Approximately 67% of our forecasted transactional exposures for the year ending February 28, 2022, were hedged as of February 28, 2021.

We have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of foreign exchange rates and commodity prices reflecting the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the applicable market. The volatility of the applicable rates and prices is dependent on many factors which cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy. Gains or losses from the revaluation or settlement of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains or losses on the derivative instruments. The aggregate notional value, estimated fair value, and sensitivity analysis for our open foreign currency and commodity derivative instruments are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest rate risk

The estimated fair value of our fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, credit risk, and foreign currency risk. In addition, we also have variable interest rate debt outstanding (primarily LIBOR-based), certain of which includes a fixed margin subject to the same risks identified for our fixed interest rate debt.

As of February 29, 2020, we had $375.0 million of outstanding cash flow designated interest rate swap agreements which fixed LIBOR interest rates (to minimize interest rate volatility) on our floating LIBOR rate debt. There were no cash flow designated interest rate swap contracts outstanding as of February 28, 2021. As of February 28, 2021, and February 29, 2020, there were no undesignated interest rate swap contracts outstanding.

Constellation Brands, Inc. FY 2021 Form 10-K#WORTHREACHINGFOR  I 52

PART IIITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURESTable of Contents

As of February 29, 2020, we had $300.0 million of outstanding cash flow designated treasury lock agreements which fixed 10-year Treasury interest rates (to minimize interest rate volatility) on our future debt issuances. There were no cash flow designated treasury lock contracts outstanding as of February 28, 2021. As of February 28, 2021, and February 29, 2020, there were no undesignated treasury lock contracts outstanding.

We have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of interest rates reflecting the impact of a hypothetical 1% increase in the prevailing interest rates. The volatility of the applicable rates is dependent on many factors which cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy. The aggregate notional value, estimated fair value, and sensitivity analysis for our outstanding fixed-rate debt, including current maturities and open interest rate derivative instruments, are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A 1% hypothetical change in the prevailing interest rates would have increased interest expense on our variable interest rate debt by $12.4 million and $26.7 million for the for the years ending February 28, 2021, and February 29, 2020, respectively.

Equity price risk

The estimated fair value of our investment in the Canopy warrants and the Canopy convertible debt securities are subject to equity price risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, and foreign currency risk. This investment is recognized at fair value utilizing various option-pricing models and has the potential to fluctuate from, among other items, changes in the quoted market price of the underlying equity security. We manage our equity price risk exposure by closely monitoring the financial condition, performance, and outlook of Canopy.

As of February 28, 2021, the fair value of our investment in the Canopy warrants and the Canopy convertible debt securities was $1,816.0 million, with an unrealized net gain (loss) on this investment of $802.0 million recognized in our results of operations for the year ended February 28, 2021. We have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of the equity price reflecting the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the quoted market price of the underlying equity security. As of February 28, 2021, such a hypothetical 10% adverse change would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of $282.7 million.

For additional discussion on our market risk, refer to Notes 6 and 7.

Constellation Brands, Inc. FY 2021 Form 10-K#WORTHREACHINGFOR  I 53

PART IIITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATATable of Contents