PART I  

Item 1.  

Business  

Overview  

Tripadvisor is a leading online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip. We operate a global travel guidance platform that connects the world’s largest audience of prospective travelers with travel partners through rich content, price comparison tools, and online reservation and related services for destinations, accommodations, travel activities and experiences, and restaurants. 

Under our flagship brand, Tripadvisor, we launched www.Tripadvisor.com in the U.S. in 2000. Since then, we have launched localized versions of the Tripadvisor website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. As of December 31, 2020, Tripadvisor featured 884 million reviews and opinions on 7.9 million hotels and other accommodations, restaurants, experiences, airlines and cruises.  

In addition to the flagship Tripadvisor brand, we own and operate a portfolio of online travel brands and businesses, operating under various websites, including the following: www.bokun.io, www.cruisecritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.bookatable.co.uk, and www.delinski.com), www.helloreco.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.seatguru.com, www.singleplatform.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com.  

Our Industry and Market Opportunity  

We operate in the global travel industry, focusing exclusively on online travel and travel-related activity, and the online advertising market. 

In January 2021, Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, estimated that the annual global travel market (not including dining) will reach $1.4 trillion of bookings in 2022 and is increasingly shifting online. As consumer travel media consumption and travel commerce activity increasingly moves online, we believe travel and travel-related businesses will continue to allocate greater percentages of their marketing budgets to online channels in order to grow their businesses.  

The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a significant negative impact on the travel, hospitality, restaurant, and leisure industry and consequently adversely and materially affected our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition during the year ended December 31, 2020. With uncertainty over travel continuing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, no one knows how quickly global travel will recover and what the travel experience will look like once new health screening measures are in place. However, we believe that, while the pandemic could permanently change travel in certain ways, global travel will return to the pre-pandemic levels. Consumers want to connect with others, learn about new places and see things they have not seen before. We believe this passion for travel combined with the need to make informed choices, creates significant long-term growth opportunities for our business. 

Our Business Model  

On a global scale, we match consumer demand for travel with travel partners that offer accommodations and travel experiences.  

Our Consumer Offerings 

Tripadvisor helps consumers plan, book, and enjoy the trips that matter. Our platform which offers content, supply, price, and convenience, has led Tripadvisor to become a global brand, attracting hundreds of millions of unique visitors that visit our sites each month, and influences a significant amount of travel commerce. We are focused on creating the best online experience in travel planning and booking, making it easier for consumers to research destinations and experiences, read and contribute user-generated content, compare destinations and businesses based on quality, price and availability, and complete bookings powered by our travel partners.  

2 

Our Travel Partners 

Our portfolio of travel-related websites enables our travel partners to be discovered, to advertise and to sell their services to a global travel audience. Travel partners may include hotel chains, independent hoteliers, online travel agencies, or OTAs, destination marketing organizations, and other travel-related and non-travel related product and service providers—that seek to market and sell their products and services to a global audience. We enable media advertising opportunities – and in some cases, facilitate transactions between consumers and travel partners in a number of ways, including by sending referrals to our travel partners’ websites, facilitating bookings on behalf of our travel partners, or by serving as the merchant of record – particularly in our Experiences offering – and by offering advertising placements on our websites and mobile apps. 

Segments and Products 

We manage our business based on the following reportable segments: (1) Hotels, Media & Platform and (2) Experiences & Dining.  

Our Hotels, Media & Platform segment includes revenue generated from the following sources: 

•  

Tripadvisor-branded Hotels Revenue. The largest source of Hotels, Media & Platform segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on Tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our travel partners’ websites. Our click-based travel partners are predominantly OTAs and hotels. Click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or CPC basis. CPC rates are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process, also known as hotel auction revenue, where our travel partner CPC bids for rates and availability to be listed on our site are submitted.  

We also offer subscription-based advertising to hotels, owners of B&Bs and other specialty lodging properties, enabling subscribers to advertise their businesses on our websites, as well as manage and promote their website URL, email address, phone number, special offers and other information related to their business. Subscription-based advertising services are predominantly sold for a flat fee for a contracted period of time. In addition, we generate revenue on a cost-per-action, or CPA basis, which consists of contextually-relevant booking links to our travel partners’ websites which are advertised on our platform. We earn a commission from our travel partners, for each traveler who clicks to and books a hotel reservation on the travel partners’ website, which results in a traveler stay. We also offer travel partners the opportunity to advertise and promote their business through hotel sponsored placements on our websites, generally on a CPC rate basis.  

•  

Tripadvisor-branded Display and Platform Revenue. We offer businesses the ability to promote their brands through display-based advertising placements on our websites. Our display-based advertising clients are predominantly direct suppliers of hotels, airlines and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. We also sell display-based advertising to OTAs and other travel related businesses, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. Display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or CPM basis.  

Our Experiences & Dining segment includes revenue generated from the following sources:  

•  

Experiences. We provide information and services that allow consumers to research and book tours, activities and experiences in popular travel destinations both directly through Viator, our dedicated Experiences offering, and on our Tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. We work with local tour or travel activities/experiences operators (“the supplier”) to provide consumers the ability to book tours, activities and experiences (“the activity”) in popular destinations worldwide, for which we generate commissions for each booking transaction we facilitate through our online reservation system. We also power travel tours, activities and experiences’ booking capabilities to consumers on affiliate partner websites, including some of the world’s top airlines, hotel chains, and online and offline travel  

3 

agencies, who display and promote on their websites the supplier activities available on our platform to generate bookings for which we earn a commission. 

•  

Dining. We provide information and services for consumers to research and book restaurant reservations in popular travel destinations through our dedicated online restaurant reservations offering, TheFork, and on our Tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. We primarily generate transaction fees (or per seated diner fees) that are paid by our restaurant customers for diners seated through TheFork’s online reservation system. We also generate subscription fees for subscription-based advertising to restaurants, access to certain online reservation management services, marketing analytic tools, and menu syndication services provided by TheFork and Tripadvisor. In addition, we also offer restaurant partners the opportunity to advertise and promote their business through restaurant media advertising placements on our Tripadvisor website generally on a CPC rate basis. 

Other is a combination of our Rentals, Flights & Car, and Cruise offerings and is not considered a reportable segment. Other includes revenue generated from the following sources:  

•  

Our Rentals offering provides information and services that allow travelers to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full homes, condominiums, villas, beach properties, cabins and cottages. Rentals generates revenue primarily by offering individual property owners and property managers the ability to list their rental properties on our websites and mobile apps thereby connecting with travelers primarily through a free-to-list, commission-based option or, alternatively through an annual subscription-based fee structure. These properties are listed on www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com, www.niumba.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and on our Tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. In addition, Other also includes revenue generated from flights, cruises, and car offerings on Tripadvisor-branded websites and its portfolio of travel media brand websites, which primarily generate click-based advertising and display-based advertising revenue, similar to our Hotels, Media & Platform segment. 

For further information regarding our segments, including financial information, and the principal revenue streams within these segments, refer to “Note 4: Revenue Recognition” and “Note 20: Segment and Geographic Information” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Seasonality  

Consumers’ travel expenditures have historically followed a seasonal pattern. Correspondingly, travel partners’ advertising investments, and therefore our revenue and profits, have also historically followed a seasonal pattern. Our financial performance tends to be seasonally highest in the second and third quarters of a given year, which includes the seasonal peak in consumer demand, traveler hotel and rental stays, and travel activities and experiences taken, compared to the first and fourth quarters, which represent seasonal low points.  

However, as discussed in Part.II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Note 1: Organization and Business Description” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K, due to the impact of COVID-19 on our business, we did not experience our typical seasonal pattern for revenue and profit during the year ended December 31, 2020. In addition, cash outflows to travel suppliers related to deferred merchant payables significantly exceeded cash received from travelers during the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily reflecting the decline in consumer demand for our products and an increase in reservation cancellations related to COVID-19. These factors contributed significantly to unfavorable working capital trends and material negative operating cash flow during the year ended December 31, 2020, most notably occurring during the first half of 2020 when we typically generate significant positive cash flow. It is difficult to forecast the seasonality for fiscal year 2021, given the uncertainty related to the ultimate extent and duration of the economic and consumer impact from COVID-19, the widespread availability and distribution of the vaccine, and the shape and timing of a recovery. In addition, significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends.  

4 

Our Long-Term Growth Strategy  

In January 2021, Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, estimated that the annual global travel market (not including dining) will reach $1.4 trillion of bookings in 2022. Given we have the world’s largest travel audience, we believe that Tripadvisor’s influence in the travel ecosystem remains significant. Our long-term growth strategy aims to increase customer engagement on our platform and drive profitable growth through:  

•  

building products that delight travelers by reducing friction throughout the travel planning and trip-taking journey; 

•  

driving consumer loyalty to our platform by offering products and services that increase engagement with our platform and result in membership growth, mobile app engagement and repeat usage; 

•  

investing in technology (e.g., machine learning) to further improve the experiences we can deliver to consumers and travel partners on our platform; 

•  

deepening travel partner engagement on our platform by expanding the number of products and services we offer; 

•  

leveraging our platform’s unique attributes to expand and grow our offerings such as hotel business to business (“B2B”) services, direct-to-consumer products and services where consumers pay us on a per trip planned or an annual subscription basis, both click-based and display-based media advertising, and experiences and restaurants; 

•  

driving operational efficiencies; and 

•  

opportunistically pursuing strategic acquisitions. 

As part of our long-term growth strategy, we favor continuous product innovation in order to deliver customers more value. In this regard, we beta-launched a direct-to-consumer annual subscription-based offering in December 2020.  

Marketing and Competition  

We compete with other companies in attractive, rapidly evolving categories of the travel industry. In these areas, we compete for content, traffic, advertising dollars and, more generally, to attract and retain our consumers’ attention, both in terms of reach and engagement. Since our products and those of our competitors are typically free, we compete based on our brand, the quality and nature of our product offerings and our online travel search and price comparison services (or metasearch), rather than on price. As such, we invest heavily in constantly improving our consumer experience and expanding content, listings and bookable inventory.  

We also invest to amplify our global brand and raise consumer awareness of, and engagement with, our end-to-end product offerings. We leverage a number of online and offline marketing channels, including online search engines (primarily Google), social media, email and brand advertising. The relative success of our marketing strategy is more measurable on some of these channels than others, and can be influenced by changes that we, our travel partners, or our competitors make to our respective products and marketing strategies. We intend to continue to promote brand awareness and will strategically allocate resources among the different marketing channels based on the return on investment. We compete globally with both online and offline, established and emerging, providers of travel, lodging, experiences and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost.  

5 

We also compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies where we operate, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. More specifically:  

•  

In our Hotels, Media & Platform segment, we compete, and in some cases partner, with the following businesses:  

o  

OTAs (including Expedia Group, Inc., or “Expedia”, Booking Holdings, Inc., or “Booking”, and their respective subsidiaries and operating companies);  

o  

hotel metasearch providers (including trivago (a majority-owned subsidiary of Expedia), Kayak and HotelsCombined (subsidiaries of Booking) and Trip.com Group Limited (formerly known as Ctrip.com International, Ltd)); 

o  

large online search, social media, and marketplace platforms and companies (including Google, Facebook, Microsoft’s Bing, Yahoo, Baidu, Alibaba, Airbnb, and Amazon);  

o  

traditional offline travel agencies; and  

o  

global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings.  

•  

We also compete with offerings in our Experiences & Dining segment. Experiences competes with online travel agencies, such as Airbnb, Booking, GetYourGuide and Klook; traditional travel agencies; online travel service providers; and wholesalers, among others. Dining competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as Google and OpenTable (a subsidiary of Booking).  

Commercial Relationships  

We have commercial relationships with a majority of the world’s leading OTAs, as well as thousands of other travel partners, pursuant to which these companies primarily purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a click-based advertising basis. Although these relationships are memorialized in agreements, many of these agreements are for limited terms or are terminable at will or on short notice. As a result, we seek to ensure the mutual success of these relationships.  

For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 our two most significant travel partners were Expedia Group, Inc. and Booking Holdings, Inc., which each accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue and together accounted for approximately 25%, 33% and 37% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. Nearly all of this concentration of revenue is recorded in the Tripadvisor-branded Hotels revenue line within our Hotels, Media & Platform segment for these reporting periods.  

Operations and Technology  

We have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations and warehousing technologies. We make significant investments in product and feature development, data management, personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies.  

Our systems infrastructure for Tripadvisor-branded websites is in a "hybrid-cloud" configuration in which parts of it are housed at two geographically separate colocation facilities and managed by our operations team, while the rest is hosted on Amazon Web Services. Our infrastructure installations have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. Each colocation facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software and content and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. We make use of Amazon Web Services availability zones to provide redundancy for the cloud portions of our infrastructure. Substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as backed up at offsite locations. Our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. Several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses have their own data infrastructure and technology teams. 

6 

Intellectual Property  

Our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. We rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content. We have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties and these arrangements may place restrictions on the use of our intellectual property.  

We protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, federal, state and common law rights. We protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, as appropriate, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. We also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. Additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with the use of intellectual property licenses and an enforcement program.  

We have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. However, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us.  

In connection with our copyrightable content, we post and institute procedures under the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and similar “host privilege” statutes worldwide to gain immunity from copyright liability for photographs, text and other content loaded on our sites by consumers. However, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity, and moderation efforts in the many jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our ability to claim immunity.  

From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement by us of the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially harm our business.  

Regulation  

We are subject to a number of laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet and relating to the travel industry, the vacation rental industry and the provision of travel services. As we continue to expand the reach of our brands into additional international markets and expand our product offerings, we are increasingly subject to additional laws and regulations. This includes laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection, libel, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, taxation, online payment services and competition, among others. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. Many of these laws and regulations are being tested in courts, and could be interpreted by regulators and courts in ways that could harm our business. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate.  

In addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally, including, in some countries, pricing display requirements, licensing and registration requirements and industry specific value-added tax regimes. The U.S. (as well as individual states), the E.U. (as well as member states) and other countries have adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, data privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. It is difficult to accurately predict how such legislation will be interpreted and applied or whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. Increased regulation of the  

7 

internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.  

We are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data. As our business has evolved, we have begun to receive and store a greater volume of personally identifiable data. This data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. For example, the E.U., in May 2018, adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which requires companies, including ours, to meet enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data. In addition, the State of California adopted the Consumer Privacy Protection Act which became effective January 1, 2020 and also enhances privacy rights and consumer protection for residents of California. In addition, similar laws have been adopted or are currently under discussion in other jurisdictions. The enactment, interpretation and application of these laws is still in a state of flux.  

Also, on June 23, 2016, the U.K. passed a referendum to exit the E.U., known as Brexit, and the U.K. ceased to be a member of the EU on January 31, 2020. On December 24, 2020, the U.K. and E.U. finalized the terms of the departure. While there continues to be some uncertainty around U.K. and E.U. relations, we do not expect Brexit will have a material impact on our business and results of operations; however, we will likely face new regulations and additional hiring costs, as well as hiring limitations from candidates outside of the U.K.  

Corporate History, Equity Ownership and Voting Control 

Tripadvisor was co-founded in February 2000 by Stephen Kaufer, our current Chief Executive Officer and President. In April 2004, Tripadvisor was acquired by IAC/InterActiveCorp, or IAC. In August 2005, IAC spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including Tripadvisor, into Expedia, at the time a separate newly-formed Delaware corporation. On December 20, 2011 Expedia completed a spin-off of Tripadvisor into a separate publicly-traded Delaware corporation. We refer to this second spin-off transaction as the “Spin-Off.” Following the Spin-Off, on December 21, 2011, Tripadvisor began trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ, as an independent public company under the trading symbol “TRIP.” 

On December 11, 2012, Liberty Interactive Corporation, or Liberty, purchased an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock of Tripadvisor from Barry Diller, our former Chairman of the Board of Directors and Senior Executive, and certain of his affiliates. As a result, Liberty beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our Class B common stock.  

On August 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and Class B common stock held by Liberty was acquired by Liberty Tripadvisor Holdings, Inc., or LTRIP. Simultaneously, Liberty, LTRIP’s former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its Liberty Ventures common stock, Liberty’s entire equity interest in LTRIP. We refer to this transaction as the “Liberty Spin-Off”. As a result of the Liberty Spin-Off, effective August 27, 2014, LTRIP became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of Liberty’s interest in Tripadvisor.  

As a result of these transactions, and as of December 31, 2020, LTRIP beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our Class B common stock, which constitute 14.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock. Assuming the conversion of all of LTRIP’s shares of Class B common stock into common stock, LTRIP would beneficially own 23.0% of the outstanding common stock. Because each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, LTRIP may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 58.5% of our voting power. 

Human Capital Resources  

Employees 

During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company enacted workforce reductions and furloughs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had 2,596 employees, which includes approximately 400 furloughed employees primarily based in our European operations at The Fork. This represented  

8 

a decrease in the number of employees of approximately 38% when compared to the same period in 2019. Nearly 40% and 50% of the Company’s current employees are based in the U.S. and Europe, respectively. We believe we have good relationships with our employees, including relationships with employees represented by international works councils or other similar organizations. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have in place business continuity programs to ensure that employees are safe and that our teams continue to function effectively while working remotely.  

Talent Acquisition and Development 

We believe our employees are essential to our success and that the Company’s success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain key talent. The skills, experience and industry knowledge of key employees significantly benefit our operations and performance. The Company's management and Board of Directors oversee various initiatives for talent acquisition, retention and development. 

Our talent philosophy is to both develop talent from within and to strategically recruit key external talent. This approach has yielded a deep understanding among our employee base of our business, our products, and our customers, while adding new employees and ideas in support of our continuous improvement mindset. Our overall talent acquisition and retention strategy is designed to attract and retain diverse and qualified candidates to enable the success of the Company and achievement of our performance goals. We recruit the best people for the job without regard to gender, ethnicity or other protected traits and it is our policy to comply fully with all domestic, foreign and local laws relating to discrimination in the workplace. Our talent acquisition team uses internal and external resources to recruit highly skilled and talented workers, and we encourage employee referrals for open positions.  

We support and develop our employees through global training and development programs that build and strengthen employees’ leadership and professional skills. Leadership development includes programs for new leaders as well as programs designed to support more experienced leaders. We also partner with external training organizations to help provide current and future workers with the knowledge and skills they need to succeed.  

Our diversity and inclusion initiatives support our goal that everyone throughout the Company is engaged in creating an inclusive workplace. We support inclusion through training on topics including Unconscious Bias and Inclusive Leadership. We also support a network of active Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) reflecting many dimensions of diversity across the Company.  

Total Rewards 

As part of our compensation philosophy, we believe that we must offer and maintain market competitive total rewards programs for our employees in order to attract, motivate and retain superior talent. These programs not only include base wages and incentives in support of our pay for performance culture, but also health, welfare, and retirement benefits.  

We design our benefit programs to meet the needs of our employees’ health while managing program costs for escalation rates at or below industry trend factors. Our programs include but are not limited to wellness, mental health services, telemedicine, and partnerships with service providers that support diverse family-care need solutions. We continuously refine, develop and implement proactive health care strategies and solutions that allow us to enhance employee health and well-being while curbing costs. 

Refer to “Note 14: Employee Benefit Plans” and “Note 15: “Stock Based Awards and Other Equity Instruments” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our 401(k) Plan, our equity award plan and other employee benefit plans. 

9 

Health and Safety 

The health and safety of our employees is of utmost importance to us. We conduct regular self-assessments and audits to ensure compliance with our health and safety guidelines and regulatory requirements. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored for us the importance of keeping our employees safe and healthy. In response to the pandemic, the Company has taken actions aligned with the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to protect its workforce so they can more safely and effectively perform their work, including, but not limited to: 

•  

Adding work from home flexibility; 

•  

Increasing cleaning protocols across all locations; 

•  

Initiating regular communication regarding impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including health and safety protocols and procedures;  

•  

Prohibiting all domestic and international non-essential business travel for all employees; and 

•  

Requiring masks to be worn in all locations where required by local law. 

Additional Information  

We maintain a corporate website at ir.tripadvisor.com. Except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the SEC.  

On our Investor Relations website (http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations), we provide our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports free of charge. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish these reports to the SEC or publish through press releases, public conference calls and certain webcasts. All documents filed electronically with the SEC (including reports, proxy and information statements and other information) are also available at www.sec.gov. Investors and others should be aware that we use our investor relations website (http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations) to announce material financial information to our investors as well as communicate with the public about our company, our results of operations and other information.  

We post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. We intend to disclose any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website.  

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors