8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d)  

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 4, 2019  

CBRE GROUP, INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(213) 613-3333  

Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code  

Not Applicable  

(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  

 ☐  

Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ☐  

Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).  

Emerging growth company ☐  

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐  

This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed by CBRE Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), in connection with the matters described herein.  

 Item 5.02  

Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.  

On January 7, 2019, the Company announced plans to divide the responsibilities of its Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief Investment Officer (CIO) into two senior executive positions. James R. Groch will serve as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Global Director of Corporate Development until a successor Chief Financial Officer is appointed. Following the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Groch will become the Company’s Global Group President and Chief Investment Officer.  

On January 4, 2019, the Company entered into an agreement with Mr. Groch pursuant to which he agrees to accept the position of the Company’s Global Group President and Chief Investment Officer upon the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer and that outlines certain of his responsibilities in such new position including capital allocation, oversight and management of all of the Company’s mergers and acquisitions activities and oversight of the allocation of capital to the Company’s Real Estate Investments businesses. In addition, this agreement provides that the definition of “retirement” applicable to Mr. Groch’s outstanding (and any future) equity awards will be amended to provide that he will become retirement eligible upon attaining age 58 (rather than age 62 with 10 years of continuous service).   

Signature  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]