Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

Alphabet Announces Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2018 Results

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. – February 4, 2019 – Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG, GOOGL) today announced financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.

"In 2018 we delivered strong revenue growth, up 23% year over year to $136.8 billion, and up 22% for the fourth quarter to $39.3 billion," said Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google. "With great opportunities ahead, we continue to make focused investments in the talent and infrastructure needed to bring exceptional products and experiences to our users, advertisers and partners around the globe."

Q4 2018 financial highlights

The following summarizes our consolidated financial results for the quarters ended December 31, 2017 and 2018 (in millions, except for per share information, percentages, and number of employees; unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 and resulted in additional tax expense of $9.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017 primarily due to the one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings and deferred tax effects.

Q4 2018 supplemental information (in millions, except for EPS and percentages; unaudited)

Segment revenues and operating results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Traffic acquisition costs (TAC) to Google Network Members and distribution partners

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Monetization metrics information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2018 effect from securities

The following summarizes the effects on our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2018 results of an accounting standard (ASU 2016-01) adopted on January 1, 2018 that changed the way companies are required to account for equity security investments. Specifically, all gains and losses, unrealized and realized, on equity security investments must be recognized in other income (expense), net (OI&E) on the income statement. Performance fees related to these equity security gains were accrued in operating expenses in the periods presented. Income tax expense on the equity security gains for the year was partially offset by the release of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The $5.5 billion gain on equity securities for 2018 includes $4.0 billion of net unrealized gains on equity investments that we hold and which may not ultimately be realized. Fluctuations in the value of these investments could contribute to the volatility of OI&E in future periods. 

In addition, results for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 were affected by a $1.3 billion unrealized gain recognized in OI&E related to a non-marketable debt security.

Webcast and conference call information

A live audio webcast of our fourth quarter 2018 earnings release call will be available at http://abc.xyz/investor. The call begins today at 1:30 PM (PT) / 4:30 PM (ET). This press release, including the reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, is also available on that site.

We also provide announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs, on our investor relations website (http://abc.xyz/investor).

Forward-looking statements

This press release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted include, among others, those risks and uncertainties included under the captions “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, which are on file with the SEC and are available on our investor relations website at http://abc.xyz/investor and on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Additional information will also be set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. All information provided in this release and in the attachments is as of February 4, 2019. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this press release, which are based on information available to us on the date hereof. We undertake no duty to update this information unless required by law.

About non-GAAP financial measures

To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the following non-GAAP financial measures: free cash flow; constant currency revenues; and constant currency revenue growth. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.

We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and liquidity by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our recurring core business operating results, such as our revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical performance and liquidity as well as comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business.

There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from these non-GAAP financial measures and evaluating these non-GAAP financial measures together with their relevant financial measures in accordance with GAAP.

For more information on these non-GAAP financial measures, please see the tables captioned "Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow" and "Reconciliation from GAAP revenues to non-GAAP constant currency revenues" included at the end of this release.

Contact

Investor relations Media

investor-relations@abc.xyz press@abc.xyz

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and par value per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per share amounts; unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions; unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions; unaudited):

We provide free cash flow because it is a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business and acquisitions, and to strengthen our balance sheet.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free cash flow: We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.

Reconciliation from GAAP revenues to non-GAAP constant currency revenues (in millions; unaudited):

We provide non-GAAP constant currency revenues and growth because they facilitate the comparison of current results to historic performance by excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, which are not indicative of our core operating results.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-GAAP constant currency revenues and growth: We define non-GAAP constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and we use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter bases. Non-GAAP constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current quarter revenues using prior period exchange rates and excluding any hedging effect recognized in the current quarter. Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current quarter non-GAAP constant currency revenues over prior period revenues, excluding any hedging effect recognized in the prior period.

Other income (expense), net

The following table presents our other income (expense), net (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Segment results

The following table presents our revenues, operating income (loss), stock-based compensation (SBC), capital expenditures, and depreciation, amortization, and impairment by segment (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Segment information for 2017 has been recast to reflect the move of Nest from Other Bets to the Google segment in Q1 2018 and to conform to the current period segment presentation. Consolidated financial information is not affected.

(2) Reconciling items are primarily comprised of the European Commission fines for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, performance fees for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018, and corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments for all periods presented.

(3) For purposes of segment reporting, SBC represents awards that we expect to settle in Alphabet stock.

(4) Reconciling items are primarily related to corporate administrative costs that are not allocated to individual segments.

(5) Reconciling items are related to timing differences of payments, as segment capital expenditures are on an accrual basis while total capital expenditures shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are on a cash basis, and other miscellaneous differences.