Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)

of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 31, 2019 

INTUITIVE SURGICAL, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1020 Kifer Road

Sunnyvale, California 94086

(Address of principal executive offices) (zip code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (408) 523-2100

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:

¨Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

¨Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

¨Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

¨Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).

Emerging growth company ¨ 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ 

Item 7.01.Regulation FD Disclosure.

On January 31, 2019, the Board of Directors of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. (the “Company”) increased the authorized amount available under the Company’s common stock repurchase program (“Repurchase Program”) to an aggregate of $2.0 billion, including amounts remaining under previous authorization. 

The timing and total amount of repurchases will depend upon market conditions and may be made from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, accelerated share repurchase programs, issuer self-tender offers or otherwise, as determined by the Company’s management. The repurchases will be made in compliance with, and at such times as permitted by, federal securities law and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The Repurchase Program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock. The Company expects to fund the Repurchase Program through cash and investments.

Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the repurchase by the Company of up to $2.0 billion of its common stock and the timing and form of stock repurchase transactions. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of the Company’s management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the market prices of the Company’s common stock; the origin of funds used for such repurchases; the impact of global and regional economic and credit market conditions, as well as the risk of bank failures, insolvency or illiquidity of other financial institutions and other adverse conditions in financial markets that could cause a loss of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments; and other risk factors under the heading “Risk Factors” in the Company’s report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, as updated by the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements using words such as “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “targeted” and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]