Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (pro forma financial statements) have been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of The Southern Company (Southern Company). 

The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017 (pro forma statements of income) give effect to the sale of the following four wholly-owned subsidiaries to a subsidiary of NextEra Energy, Inc. (Divestitures) as if they were completed on January 1, 2017:

•Gulf Power Company (Gulf Power), sold on January 1, 2019;

•Southern Company - Oleander LLC (Oleander) and Southern Company - Florida LLC (Stanton) (owned by Southern Power Company), sold on December 4, 2018; and

•Pivotal Utility Holdings, Inc. (PUHI), including its Florida City Gas business (owned by Southern Company Gas), sold on July 31, 2018. 

The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018 (pro forma balance sheet) gives effect to the sales of Gulf Power, Oleander, and Stanton as if they were completed on September 30, 2018. Proceeds of $530 million received in the sale of PUHI and the related pay down of $276 million in debt are reflected in the historical balance sheet of Southern Company at September 30, 2018.

The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the pro forma financial statements (A) to give effect to pro forma events that are: (1) directly attributable to the Divestitures; (2) factually supportable; and (3) with respect to the statements of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the results of Southern Company, and (B) to eliminate historical events directly attributable to the Divestitures that are not, with respect to the statements of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the results of Southern Company. 

Assumptions and estimates underlying the pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying note, which should be read in connection with the pro forma financial statements. While the pro forma financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates for the sales of Gulf Power, Oleander, and Stanton and are subject to final working capital adjustments, the final amounts recorded are not expected to be materially different from the information presented herein.

The pro forma financial statements have been presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations and financial position that would have been achieved had the Divestitures taken place on the dates indicated, or the future consolidated results of operations or financial position of Southern Company.

The pro forma financial statements also should be read in conjunction with:

•the consolidated financial statements of Southern Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in Southern Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017; and

•the consolidated financial statements of Southern Company as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 included in Southern Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018.

Southern Company

Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed

Consolidated Statements of Income

For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Southern Company

Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed

Consolidated Statements of Income

For the Year Ended December 31, 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Southern Company

Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed

Consolidated Balance Sheet

As of September 30, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)

As of September 30, 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note 1. Adjustments to Pro Forma Financial Statements 

Basis of Presentation. The pro forma financial statements have been prepared based on the amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheet of Southern Company as of September 30, 2018 and the consolidated statements of income of Southern Company for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017. Amounts reflected in the Divestitures column of the pro forma statements of income represent the historical operating results of the businesses disposed of through the Divestitures for the year ended December 31, 2017 and through the date of disposition (July 31, 2018) for PUHI and through September 30, 2018 for Gulf Power, Oleander, and Stanton.

Adjustments to Pro Forma Statements of Income

a.Gain on dispositions, net–Reflects the elimination of the gain recognized on the sale of PUHI during the third quarter 2018.

b.Impairment charges–Reflects the elimination of an asset impairment charge related to the sale of Oleander and Stanton recorded during the second quarter 2018.

c.Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized–Reflects the use of an estimated $3.85 billion of sale proceeds to reduce certain outstanding debt obligations of Southern Company having a weighted-average interest rate of 2.74%.

d.Income taxes (benefit)–Reflects the elimination of $101 million in income tax expense recognized on the gain on sale of PUHI along with the income tax effect of the remaining pro forma adjustments calculated using an estimated statutory rate of 25.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 38.4% for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Adjustments to Pro Forma Balance Sheet

e.Cash and cash equivalents–Reflects the net sales proceeds of $4.416 billion for Gulf Power and $203 million for Oleander and Stanton.

f.Other current assets–Reflects consideration receivable of $75 million related to the sale of Gulf Power.

g.Cash and cash equivalents and Long-term debt–Reflects the use of an estimated $3.85 billion of sale proceeds from the sale of Gulf Power, Oleander, and Stanton to retire existing debt of Southern Company.

h.Accrued taxes–Reflects the estimated tax liability associated with the net gain on the sales of Gulf Power, Oleander, and Stanton.