UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 11, 2019 

CIMAREX ENERGY CO. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  1700 Lincoln Street, Suite 3700, Denver, Colorado       80203   

  (Address of principal executive offices)       (Zip Code)     

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code 303-295-3995 

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

x Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

o Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b—2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.12b—2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company o 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o 

ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS 

On February 11, 2019, Cimarex Energy Co. (“Cimarex”) and Resolute Energy Corporation (“Resolute”) issued a joint press release announcing that, in connection with Cimarex’s pending acquisition of Resolute, the election deadline for holders of shares of Resolute’s common stock and holders of shares of Resolute’s restricted stock (time and/or performance vested), outperformance share rights and/or options to elect the form of merger consideration they wish to receive in connection with the transaction, subject to proration, is 5:00 p.m., Eastern time, on February 22, 2019. A copy of the joint press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. 

ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS 

D. Exhibits 

  Exhibit No.       Description   

  99.1       Joint Press Release, dated February 11, 2019    

Additional Information and Where to Find It 

This report does not constitute an offer to buy or sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. This communication relates to a proposed transaction between Cimarex and Resolute. 

In connection with the proposed transaction, Cimarex has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a registration statement on Form S-4, as amended, that includes a proxy statement of Resolute and a prospectus of Cimarex. The registration statement became effective on January 30, 2019. Resolute filed with the SEC a definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A on January 30, 2019. The proxy statement/prospectus was mailed to stockholders of Resolute on or about January 30, 2019. Each of Cimarex and Resolute also plan to file other relevant documents with the SEC regarding the proposed transaction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF RESOLUTE ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT, PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS THAT MAY BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY IF AND WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. 

Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (if and when available) and other documents containing important information about Cimarex and Resolute, once such documents are filed with the SEC through the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Cimarex will be available free of charge on Cimarex’s website at https://www.cimarex.com/home/default.aspx under the tab “Investor Relations” and then under the heading “Financial Information.” Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Resolute will be available free of charge on Resolute’s website at https://www.resoluteenergy.com/ under the tab “Investors” and then under the heading “SEC Filings.” 

Participants in the Solicitation 

Cimarex, Resolute and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Resolute’s stockholders in respect of the proposed transaction. Information about the directors and executive officers of Cimarex is set forth in Cimarex’s definitive proxy statement for its 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on March 30, 2018. Information about the directors and executive officers of Resolute, including a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is set forth in the proxy statement/prospectus and is set forth in its definitive proxy statement for its 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on May 18, 2018. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, are contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and will be contained in other relevant 

2 

materials to be filed with the SEC when such materials become available. Investors should read the proxy statement/prospectus carefully before making any voting or investment decisions. You may obtain free copies of these documents from Cimarex or Resolute using the sources indicated above. 

Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information 

This report contains certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of federal securities laws. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “will,” “should,” “may” and similar expressions may be used to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact and reflect Cimarex’s and Resolute’s current views about future events. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the proposed merger involving Cimarex and Resolute, including future financial and operating results, Cimarex’s and Resolute’s plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the transaction, and other statements that are not historical facts, including estimates of oil and natural gas reserves and resources, estimates of future production, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas pricing, planned drilling activity, future results of operations, projected cash flow and liquidity, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements contained in this communication will occur as projected and actual results may differ materially from those projected. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and assumptions that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, the ability to obtain the requisite Resolute stockholder approval, the risk that an event, change or other circumstances could give rise to the termination of the proposed merger, the risk that a condition to closing of the merger may not be satisfied, the timing to consummate the proposed merger, the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully, the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected, the risk that any announcement relating to the proposed transaction could have adverse effects on the market price of Cimarex’s common stock or Resolute’s common stock, the outcome of litigation related to the proposed transaction, disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, the diversion of management time on merger-related issues, the volatility in commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas, the presence or recoverability of estimated reserves, the ability to replace reserves, environmental risks, drilling and operating risks, exploration and development risks, competition, government regulation or other actions, the ability of management to execute its plans to meet its goals and other risks inherent in Cimarex’s and Resolute’s businesses. 

All such factors are difficult to predict and are beyond Cimarex’s or Resolute’s control, including those detailed in Cimarex’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that are available on its website at https://www.cimarex.com and on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, and those detailed in Resolute’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that are available on Resolute’s website at https://www.resoluteenergy.com/ and on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. 

Forward-looking statements are based on the estimates and opinions of management at the time the statements are made. Cimarex undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. 

3 

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Cimarex has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

4