ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Executive Overview 

Our strategy includes property development, redevelopment, and other opportunistic investments that offer the prospect of outsized returns on a risk-adjusted basis. We invest where the talent of our business professionals, including their local market knowledge and insight, offers a comparative advantage. We deploy a variety of project and property-level financing structures to improve our returns on invested capital. Additionally, we own a national portfolio of operating properties which offers diversification, capital allocation opportunity, and a stable source of cash flow from operations. 

Please refer to “Item 1. Business” for additional discussion of our business organization and strategy and “Item 2. Properties” for details regarding the size, location, and key metrics about our various properties. 

The Separation 

On December 15, 2020, Aimco completed the separation of AIR from Aimco, creating two distinct, independent businesses. Prior to the Separation, the consolidated financial statements were prepared on a carve-out basis and reflect significant assumptions and allocations. The consolidated financial statements reflect our historical financial position, results of operations, and cash flows in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The financial statements of Aimco are presented for all historical periods described and at the carrying value of such assets and liabilities reflected in Aimco Predecessor’s books and records. The following discussion focuses on the year ended December 31, 2020 results of Aimco as a separate company from AIR.  

Financial Highlights 

Net income attributable to Aimco common stockholders per common share, on a dilutive basis, decreased by $0.03 during the year ending December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, due primarily to non-cash charges resulting from the Separation. 

Our business is organized around five areas of strategic focus: development and redevelopment; operating properties; investment and portfolio; balance sheet; and team and culture. 

Development and Redevelopment 

During the year ended December 31, 2020, capital additions at properties retained by Aimco totaled approximately $20 million.  

On December 15, 2020, we entered into leasehold agreements with AIR for four initial leased assets, as announced in the separation agreements. The leasehold agreements with AIR were obtained by Aimco to complete the development and redevelopment activities underway at the time of Separation. The four assets leased are: The North Tower at Flamingo Point in Miami Beach, Florida, where we are completing the major redevelopment of 366 apartment homes and amenities; The Fremont Residences on the Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora, Colorado, a new 253 apartment home community completed in late 2020 and currently in lease-up; 707 Leahy Apartments in Redwood City, California, a completed major redevelopment of 110 apartment homes that are currently in lease-up; and Prism in Cambridge, Massachusetts, a 136 apartment home development scheduled to be completed in the first quarter of 2021. The lease terms commenced on January 1, 2021 and as a result of this, we expect the incremental direct costs to complete the development and redevelopment of these assets to be approximately $70.0 million. Please refer to Note 17 for additional details on the lease agreements with AIR. 

Operating Properties 

We own a national portfolio of operating properties which offers diversification, capital allocation opportunity, and provides a stable source of cash flow. Our Operating Portfolio, notwithstanding headwinds due to the pandemic, produced solid results for the year ended December 31, 2020. Highlights include: 

•  

Average daily occupancy at our Operating Portfolio of 96.3% for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 96.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2020, a 190-basis point improvement from the three months ended September 30, 2020. 

•  

Average revenue per occupied unit at our Operating Portfolio of $1,873 for the year ended December 31, 2020, up 0.1% year over year.  

•  

Net operating income for our Operating Portfolio decreased by 1.8% year over year, for the year ended December 31, 2020.  

•  

We estimate that in the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred $4.5 million of incremental costs as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These estimated incremental costs include $1.9 million of lost commercial revenue, $1.3  

25 

Table of Contents 

million of higher bad debt expense, and $1.3 million of other COVID-19 related items including increased cleaning costs. 

•  

We measure residential rent collection as the amount of payments received as a percentage of all residential amounts owed. In 2020, we collected 98.3% of all amounts owed by Aimco residents. 

Office operations at 1001 Brickell Bay Drive, while facing headwinds due to the pandemic, remain steady with occupancy on December 31, 2020 of 77%. In November and December, we collected 100% of rents owed, and we collected an average of 96% of rents owed since April. 

Investment and Portfolio 

Acquisitions: During the year ended December 31, 2020, we acquired Hamilton on the Bay, located in Miami’s Edgewater neighborhood, for $89.6 million. The acquisition includes a 271-apartment home community located on the waterfront, plus an adjacent 0.6-acre development site with four apartment homes. Current zoning allows for the construction of more than 380 additional apartment homes on the combined sites. We are now in planning for a substantial renovation of the existing building. 

Joint Venture Transaction: During the year ended December 31, 2020, we entered into a joint venture agreement with a third party developer on Upton Place, a $290.0 million, mixed-use development containing 689 apartment homes and approximately 100,000 square feet of retail space in upper-northwest Washington, D.C. Aimco consolidates this joint venture and holds a 90% economic interest inclusive of a 17% position owned by AIR which, by contract, is controlled by Aimco. 

Parkmerced Mezzanine Investment: On November 26, 2019, Aimco Predecessor made a five-year, $275.0 million mezzanine loan to a partnership owning Parkmerced Apartments, located in southwest San Francisco (the “Mezzanine Investment”). The loan bears interest at a 10% annual rate, accruing if not paid from property operations. During the year ended December 31, 2020, Aimco Predecessor received interest payments of $0.6 million and accrued all remaining interest due, as provided by the loan agreement, consistent with GAAP. The terms of the Separation from AIR provide for the mezzanine loan and related agreements to be transferred to us by AIR once third-party consents related to the transfer are received. The legal transfer of the assets had not occurred as of December 31, 2020. Until such time as ownership is transferred, the terms of the Separation Agreement require AIR to pass payments on such loan to us, and we are obligated to indemnify AIR against any such costs and expenses related thereto. We have the risks and rewards of ownership of the Mezzanine Investment and have recognized an asset related to our right to receive the Mezzanine Investment from AIR. 

The loan is subject to certain risks, including, but not limited to, those resulting from the severe downturn in San Francisco rents, the ongoing disruption due to the COVID-19 pandemic and associated governmental response, and the current economic situation which may result in all or a portion of the loan not being repaid. In the event we determine that a portion of the Mezzanine Investment is not recoverable, we will recognize an impairment, if appropriate.  

Life Science Developer Investment: In the third quarter of 2020, Aimco made a $50 million commitment to IQHQ, Inc. (“IQHQ”), a privately-held life sciences real estate development company. In addition, Aimco gained the right to collaborate with IQHQ on any multifamily component at its future development sites. As of December 31, 2020, we funded $12.5 million of this commitment and have a remaining commitment of $37.5 million. 

The Aimco team continues to actively source and evaluate a wide range of potential investment opportunities. 

Balance Sheet 

Leverage 

We seek to increase financial returns and reduce investment risk by using leverage and partners’ capital with appropriate caution. Our leverage consists primarily of long-term, non-recourse property loans encumbering apartment communities, outstanding borrowings on our revolving credit facility, borrowings on construction loans, Notes Payable to AIR, and a redeemable noncontrolling interest in a consolidated real estate partnership. Please refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information regarding our leverage. 

In evaluating our financial condition and operating performance we use non-GAAP measures, including Adjusted EBITDAre, which we believe is useful to investors and creditors as a supplemental measure of our ability to incur and service debt. Our Adjusted EBITDAre for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $104.7 million. Please refer to the Non-GAAP Measures section for further information about the calculation of Adjusted EBITDAre and our leverage ratios. 

Financing Activity 

On December 16, 2020, we entered into a three-year credit agreement providing for a new $150.0 million secured credit facility, a $20.0 million swingline loan sub-facility and a $30.0 million letter of credit sub-facility. We expect to use our credit  

26 

Table of Contents 

facility primarily for working capital and other short-term purposes. As of December 31, 2020, we had no amounts drawn on this revolving secured credit facility, swingline loan sub-facility or letter of credit sub-facility.  

On December 23, 2020, in connection with our Upton Place property, we secured a construction loan of up to $174.2 million. As of December 31, 2020, we had no amounts drawn on this construction loan.  

Please refer to Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further discussion of our financing activity. 

Liquidity 

Our liquidity consists of cash and restricted cash and available capacity on our revolving secured credit facility. As of December 31, 2020, our total liquidity was $448.7 million. Please refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information regarding our leverage. 

Team and Culture 

Our team is our most important asset and our culture is key to our success. In connection with the Separation, we retained approximately 50 Aimco employees, including: Wes Powell, Chief Executive Officer; Lynn Stanfield, Chief Financial Officer; and Jennifer Johnson, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel; each of whom has more than 16 years of Aimco experience. In addition, former Aimco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine will be actively engaged for a transition period with a particular focus on strategic guidance and new business.  

Aimco benefits from having experienced leaders located in each of four regional hubs where they utilize their local knowledge and connections to source and execute on exceptional investment opportunities. We believe the talent of our team, and our ability to retain that talent through a rewarding and balanced work-life culture, will result in superior outcomes and is key to our long-term success. We offer benefits reflecting this belief, including paid time for parental leave, paid time annually to volunteer in local communities, a bonus structure at all levels of the organization, and flexibility in work locations and schedules.  

Out of hundreds of participating companies in 2020, we were one of only six recognized as a “Top Workplace” in Colorado for each of the past eight years, and were one of only two real estate companies to receive a BEST award from the Association for Talent Development in recognition of our company-wide success in talent development, marking our third consecutive year receiving this award. 

Impacts of COVID-19 and Government Lockdown  

The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and governmental lockdown continued through the fourth quarter of 2020. At the onset of the pandemic, we formed a cross-functional committee to lead our efforts to adjust to the changing conditions in order to keep our team and our residents safe. We continued our commitment to employees by allowing flexible work arrangements, undertook to pay all costs associated with COVID-19 testing and treatment, and continued clear and frequent communication. Utilizing our previous investment in technology and artificial intelligence, paired with policies providing flexibility, operations continued at our apartment communities with the leasing of apartments and fulfillment of service requests in a safe environment for our team members and our residents. 

Our top priority is the health and safety of our residents and teammates. Accordingly, we implemented enhanced cleaning procedures and physical distancing and remote working guidelines at our communities and corporate offices. Additionally, seeing residents as individuals, each impacted differently by the pandemic and governmental lockdown, our teammates have undertaken to speak to every resident in need, to listen, and to help each to solve his or her problems. We also seek to assist the communities where our residents and employees live and work. 

During the year ended December 31, 2020, we estimate that we incurred $4.5 million of incremental costs as a result of the pandemic. These estimated incremental costs include $1.9 million of lost commercial revenue, $1.3 million of higher bad debt expense, and $1.3 million of other COVID-19 related items including increased cleaning costs. 

Residential Rent Collections 

We measure residential rent collection as the amount of payments received as a percentage of all residential amounts owed. Through December 31, 2020, we have collected 98.3% of all amounts owed by Aimco residents in 2020. 

Results of Operations 

We have three segments: (i) Development and redevelopment, (ii) Operating Portfolio, and (iii) Other. Our Development and redevelopment segment includes residential apartment communities, including associated commercial space, that are under construction or have not achieved stabilization. Our Operating Portfolio segment includes majority owned residential  

27 

Table of Contents 

communities that have achieved stabilized level of operations as of January 1, 2019 and maintained it throughout the current year and comparable period. Our Other segment consists of 1001 Brickell Bay Drive, our only commercial real estate property. 

The following discussion and analysis of the results of our operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements in Item 8. 

Detailed Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2020, Compared to 2019 and the Year Ended December 31, 2019, Compared to 2018 

Net income decreased by $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019, and decreased by $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 2018, as described more fully below.  

Property Operations 

As of December 31, 2020, our Operating Portfolio segment included 24 communities with 6,067 apartment homes, our Development and redevelopment segment included Upton Place and Hamilton on the Bay, which are both being prepared for construction, and our Other segment includes one office building.  

We use proportionate property net operating income to assess the operating performance of our segments. Proportionate property net operating income is defined as our share of rental and other property revenues, excluding utility reimbursements, less direct property operating expenses, net of utility reimbursements, for consolidated communities. In our consolidated statements of operations, utility reimbursements are included in rental and other property revenues, in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, the results of operations of our segments discussed below are presented on a proportionate basis and exclude the results of four apartment communities with an aggregate 142 apartment homes that we neither manage nor consolidate, notes receivable, our investment in IQHQ and the Mezzanine Investment.  

We do not include property management costs and casualty gains or losses, reported in consolidated amounts, in our assessment of segment performance. Accordingly, these items are not allocated to our segment results discussed below.  

Please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further discussion regarding our segments, including a reconciliation of these proportionate amounts to consolidated rental and other property revenues and property operating expenses. 

Proportionate Property Net Operating Income – Year Ended December 31, 2020, Compared to December 31, 2019 

The results of our segments for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, are presented below (in thousands). 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Development and redevelopment proportionate property net operating income increased by $0.5 million, or 100% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, due to the acquisition of Hamilton on the Bay in August 2020. 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, our Operating Portfolio proportionate property net operating income decreased by $1.6 million, or 1.8%, as operations at Aimco properties were impacted by the pandemic and related restrictions. This decrease was attributable to a $0.7 million, or 0.5%, decrease in rental and other property revenues due primarily to bad debt, increasing from 40 basis points of revenue to 130 basis points, and lower average daily occupancy of 40 basis points. This was partially offset by higher average rent of $21 per apartment home. Property operating expenses increased $0.9 million, or 2.2% increase due primarily to an increase in real estate taxes and insurance.  

28 

Table of Contents 

Other proportionate property net operating income increased by $3.9 million, or 78.3 % for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, due to the acquisition of 1001 Brickell Bay Drive in July 2019. 

Proportionate Property Net Operating Income – Year Ended December 31, 2019, Compared to December 31, 2018 

The results of our segments for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, are presented below. There was no proportionate property net operating income associated with our Other segment during the year ended December 31, 2018, as the only property in the segment was not acquired until 2019. There was no proportionate property net operating income associated with our Development and redevelopment segment as these properties are under construction (in thousands).  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, our Operating Portfolio proportionate property net operating income increased by $2.8 million, or 3.3%. This increase was attributable primarily to a $4.0 million, or 3.1%, increase in rental and other property revenues due to higher average revenues of $43 per apartment home. The increase in Operating Portfolio proportionate property net operating income was offset partially offset by a $1.2 million, or 2.8%, increase in property operating expenses due primarily to higher controllable operating expenses, real estate taxes, and utility costs. 

Non-Segment Property Operating Expenses 

Property operating expenses not attributed to our segments includes property management costs and casualty losses, which we do not allocate to our segments for purposes of evaluating segment performance. 

Non-property operating expenses were consistent for all periods presented.  

Depreciation and Amortization 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $13.9 million, or 21.8%, due primarily to depreciation and amortization of assets at 1001 Brickell Bay Drive, acquired in July 2019, and Hamilton on the Bay, acquired in August 2020.  

For the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, depreciation and amortization expense increased by $14.7 million, or 29.7%, due primarily to depreciation and amortization of assets at 1001 Brickell Bay Drive, acquired in July 2019. 

General and Administrative Expenses 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, general and administrative expenses increased by $3.4 million, or 48.2%, due primarily to audit and tax fees incurred as a separate legal entity and increased allocation of expenses from Aimco Predecessor. 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, general and administrative expenses increased by $1.3 million, or 22.5%, due primarily to increased allocation of expenses from Aimco Predecessor driven by the acquisition of 1001 Brickell Bay Drive and our Mezzanine Investment. 

29 

Table of Contents 

Interest Expense 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, interest expense, which includes the amortization of debt issuance costs, increased $8.9 million due primarily to higher prepayment penalties and outstanding debt balances including the Notes Payable to AIR and debt related to the 2019 acquisition of Brickell. 

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018 was relatively flat.  

Mezzanine Investment Income, Net 

On November 26, 2019, Aimco Predecessor loaned $275.0 million to the partnership owning Parkmerced Apartments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized $27.6 million of income representing accrued interest amounts due in connection with the Mezzanine Investment, net of transaction cost amortization.  

In the event we determine that the value of the Mezzanine Investment has declined below its carrying value, we will recognize an impairment, if appropriate. 

Income Tax Benefit (Expense)  

1001 Brickell Bay Drive is owned through a TRS entity. Our income tax benefit (expense) calculated in accordance with GAAP includes income taxes associated with the income or loss of our TRS entities, including tax on gains on dispositions (if applicable), for which the tax consequences have been realized or will be realized in future periods.  

Income taxes related to these items, and the establishment of incremental deferred tax items in conjunction with intercompany asset transfers (if applicable), are included in income tax benefit (expense) in our consolidated statements of operations. 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019, income tax benefit increased by $6.8 million due primarily to the tax effect on GAAP losses at 1001 Brickell Bay Drive, acquired in July 2019 and higher TRS losses.  

For the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018, income tax changed from tax expense of $0.3 to a tax benefit of $3.3 million resulting in an increase of $3.6 million due primarily to an income tax benefit associated with 1001 Brickell Bay Drive, which was acquired in July 2019.          

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Liquidity 

Liquidity is the ability to meet present and future financial obligations. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flow from operations and borrowing capacity under our loan agreements.  

As of December 31, 2020, our available liquidity was $448.7 million, which consists of: 

•  

$289.6 million in cash and cash equivalents;  

•  

$9.2 million of restricted cash, including amounts related to tenant security deposits and escrows held by lenders for capital additions, property taxes, and insurance; and 

•  

$150.0 million of available capacity to borrow under our revolving secured credit facility. 

Our principal uses for liquidity include normal operating activities, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt, capital expenditures, and future investments. We use our cash and cash equivalents, including that provided by operating activities, to meet short-term liquidity needs. 

In the event that our cash and cash equivalents, revolving secured credit facility, and cash provided by operating activities are not sufficient to cover our liquidity needs, we have the means to generate additional liquidity, such as property financing activity and proceeds from apartment community sales. We expect to meet our long-term liquidity requirements, such as debt maturities, development and redevelopment spending, and future investment activity, primarily through property financing activity and cash generated from operations. Our revolving secured credit facility matures in December 2023, prior to consideration of its two one-year extension options. 

Leverage and Capital Resources 

30 

Table of Contents 

The availability of credit and its related effect on the overall economy may affect our liquidity and future financing activities, both through changes in interest rates and access to financing. Currently, interest rates are low compared to historical levels, and financing is readily available. Any adverse changes in the lending environment could negatively affect our liquidity. We believe we have mitigated much of this exposure by reducing our short and intermediate term maturity risk. However, if property or development financing options become unavailable for our future debt needs, we may consider alternative sources of liquidity, such as reductions in capital spending or proceeds from apartment community dispositions. 

As of December 31, 2020, approximately 46% of our leverage consisted of property-level, non-recourse, long-dated, amortizing debt. Approximately 88% of our property-level debt is fixed-rate, which provides a hedge against increases in interest rates, capitalization rates, and inflation. The weighted-average remaining term to maturity of our property-level debt was 5.7 years and a weighted-average interest rate of 3.1%.  

While our primary source of leverage is property-level debt which includes construction loans, we also have a credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions. As of December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under our revolving secured credit facility, swingline loan sub-facility and letter of credit sub-facility and had capacity to borrow up to $150.0 million.  

As of December 31, 2020, approximately 54% of our leverage consisted of Notes Payable to AIR, with a fixed interest rate of 5.2% and a term to maturity of 3.1 years. 

Under our revolving secured credit facility, we have agreed to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25x, minimum tangible net worth of $625.0 million, and maximum leverage of 60% as defined in the credit agreement. We are currently in compliance and expect to remain in compliance with these covenants. 

Changes in Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Restricted Cash 

The following discussion relates to changes in consolidated cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash due to operating, investing, and financing activities, which are presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows in Item 8 of this report. 

Operating Activities 

Our operating cash flow is affected primarily by rental rates, occupancy levels, and operating expenses related to our communities. 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $47.8 million. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash provided by operating activities decreased by $10.1 million compared to 2019, due primarily to lower net cash contribution from our properties, which were negatively impacted by the pandemic and governmental lockdown and general and administrative and other increases related to the Separation, partially offset by the incremental contribution from properties acquired in 2020 and 2019. 

Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $4.4 million compared to 2018, due primarily to higher contribution from our communities. 

Investing Activities 

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased by $283.5 million compared to 2019, due primarily to the $277.6 million payment made by Aimco Predecessor on November 26, 2019 for the Mezzanine Investment. Adding to the decrease in cash used in investing was lower capital expenditures. The lower capital expenditures resulted from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic whereby temporary local restrictions halted construction activity at many apartment communities. 

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $375.0 million compared to 2018, due primarily to the $277.6 million payment made by Aimco Predecessor on November 26, 2019 for the Mezzanine Investment and related transaction costs and the $95.9 million acquisition of 1001 Brickell Bay Drive.  

Financing Activities  

Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased by $9.9 million compared to 2019, due primarily to $420.9 million investment from Aimco Predecessor. Partially offsetting this were higher principal payments on our non-recourse property debt, purchase of the interest rate option and deferred financing costs. 

Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, increased by $376.2 million compared to 2018, due primarily to higher net investment from Aimco Predecessor, proceeds from the Notes Payable to AIR lower  

31 

Table of Contents 

repayments on property debt, and contribution from redeemable noncontrolling interest in consolidated real estate partnership offset partially by lower proceeds from property debt. 

Contractual Obligations 

This table summarizes information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding payments due under contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2020 (in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Includes scheduled principal amortization and maturity payments. 

(2)  

Includes interest related to both non-recourse property debt and our Notes Payables to AIR. 

(3)  

Includes our office lease, our 99-year ground leases for Upton Place and our leasehold agreements with AIR, commencing January 1, 2021, relative to four initial leased assets. See Note 17 – Subsequent Events in our consolidated financial statements. 

(4)  

Capital contribution based on managements projected funding of the investment.  

(5)  

Represents estimated obligations pursuant to construction contracts related to our redevelopment and capital spending.  

Additionally, our third-party property managers may enter into commitments on our behalf to purchase goods or services in connection with the operation of our apartment communities and our office building. Those commitments generally have terms of one year or less and reflect expenditure levels comparable to historical levels.  

Future Capital Needs 

In addition to the items set forth in “Contractual Obligations” above, we expect to fund any future acquisitions, debt maturities, development and redevelopment, and capital spending principally with proceeds from short-term borrowings, debt and equity financing, and operating cash flows. We believe, based on the information available at this time, that we have sufficient cash on hand and access to additional sources of liquidity to meet our operational needs for 2021 and beyond. 

 Non-GAAP Measures 

 We use EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre in managing our business and in evaluating our financial condition and operating performance. These key financial indicators are non-GAAP measures and are defined and described below. We provide reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable financial measure computed in accordance with GAAP. 

32 

Table of Contents 

Earnings Before Interest Expense, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization for Real Estate (EBITDAre) 

EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre are non-GAAP measures, which we believe are useful to investors, creditors, and rating agencies as a supplemental measure of our ability to incur and service debt because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and allow for comparison of our credit strength to different companies. EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre should not be considered alternatives to net income (loss) as determined in accordance with GAAP as indicators of liquidity. There can be no assurance that our method of calculating EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts. Nareit defines EBITDAre as net income computed in accordance with GAAP, before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense, further adjusted for: 

•  

gains and losses on the dispositions of depreciated property; 

•  

impairment write-downs of depreciated property; 

•  

impairment write-downs of investments in unconsolidated partnerships caused by a decrease in the value of the depreciated property in such partnerships; and 

•  

adjustments to reflect Aimco’s share of EBITDAre of investments in unconsolidated entities. 

EBITDAre is defined by Nareit and provides for an additional performance measure independent of capital structure for greater comparability between real estate investment trusts. We define Adjusted EBITDAre as EBITDAre adjusted to exclude the effect of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships and EBITDAre adjustments attributable to noncontrolling interests, to allow investors to compare a measure of our earnings before the effects of our capital structure and indebtedness with that of other companies in the real estate industry. 

The reconciliation of net (loss) income to EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, is as follows (in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

During the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred an unrealized gain on our interest rate option. We have excluded this gain from Adjusted EBITDAre because we believe it is not representative of current operating performance. This gain is included in other expenses, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. 

(2)  

During 2018, we were engaged in litigation with Airbnb, which was resolved during the fourth quarter of 2018. Due to the unpredictable nature of these proceedings and because we believe they are not representative of current operating performance, related amounts recognized have been excluded from Adjusted EBITDAre. 

33 

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies involve our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 

Capitalized Costs 

We capitalize costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital additions activities, including redevelopments, other tangible apartment community improvements, and replacements of existing community components. Included in these capitalized costs are payroll costs associated with time spent by employees in connection with the planning, execution, and control of all capital addition activities at our communities. We characterize as “indirect costs” an allocation of certain department costs, including payroll, at the area operations and corporate levels that clearly relate to capital addition activities. We also capitalize interest, property taxes, and insurance during periods in which redevelopments are in progress. We commence capitalization of costs, including certain indirect costs, incurred in connection with our capital addition activities, at the point in time when activities necessary to get communities, apartment homes, or leased spaces ready for their intended use begin. These activities include when communities, apartment homes, or leased spaces are undergoing physical construction, as well as when homes or leased spaces are held vacant in advance of planned construction, provided that other activities such as permitting, planning, and design are in progress. We cease the capitalization of costs when the communities or components thereof are substantially complete and ready for their intended use, which is typically when construction has been completed and homes or leased spaces are available for occupancy. We charge costs including ordinary repairs, maintenance, and resident turnover costs to property operating expense, as incurred.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 

Real estate and other long-lived assets to be held and used are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, unless the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, we assess its recoverability by comparing the carrying amount to our estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows, excluding interest charges, of the asset. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. 

In connection with the Separation, we entered into a sublease of office space within our corporate offices to AIR at then-current market rents. Based on an analysis of the estimated undiscounted cash flows per the terms of the sublease arrangement, we evaluated the recoverability of the assets associated with the subleased space, including, the right-of-use asset, tenant improvements and furniture, fixtures and equipment and concluded the subleased assets were impaired. We recorded an impairment charge of $11.0 million in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. There were no such impairments for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.  

In connection with the Separation, we entered into a software license agreement with AIR to provide for the use of certain internally developed software at then-current market rates. Based on an analysis of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relative to the carrying value of the internally developed software, we concluded the assets were impaired. Additionally, following an evaluation of the future service potential of certain other internal software that was under development, we ceased development and impaired the associated carrying value. We recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $4.9 million in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. There were no such impairments for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.  

Acquisitions 

Upon the acquisition of real estate, we determine whether the purchase qualifies as an asset acquisition or, less frequently, meets the definition of an acquisition of a business. We generally recognize the acquisition of apartment communities or interests in partnerships that own communities at our cost, including the related transaction costs, as asset acquisitions. 

We allocate the cost of apartment communities acquired based on the relative fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair value of these assets and liabilities is determined using valuation techniques that rely on Level 2 and Level 3 inputs within the fair value framework. We determine the fair value of tangible assets, such as land, buildings, furniture, fixtures and equipment using valuation techniques that consider comparable market transactions, replacement costs and other available information. We determine the fair value of identified intangible assets or liabilities, which typically relate to in-place leases, using valuation techniques that consider the terms of the in-place leases, current market data for comparable leases and our experience in leasing similar communities. 

34 

Table of Contents 

The intangible assets or liabilities related to in-place leases are comprised of: (a) the value of the above- and below-market leases in-place, measured over the period, including probable lease renewals for below-market leases, that the leases are expected to remain in effect; (b) the estimated unamortized portion of avoided leasing commissions and other costs that ordinarily would be incurred to originate the in-place leases; and (c) the value associated with leased apartment homes during an estimated absorption period, which estimates rental revenue that would not have been earned had leased apartment homes been vacant at the time of acquisition, assuming lease-up periods based on market demand and stabilized occupancy levels. The above- and below-market lease intangibles are amortized to rental revenue over the expected remaining terms of the associated leases, which include reasonably assured renewal periods. Other intangible assets related to in-place leases are amortized to depreciation and amortization over the expected remaining terms of the associated leases. 

Mezzanine Investment 

We use the equity method of accounting for investments in unconsolidated real estate ventures when we have significant influence but do not have a controlling financial interest. Significant influence is typically indicated through ownership of 20% or more of the voting interests. Under the equity method, we record our investments in these entities in "Mezzanine investment” on our consolidated balance sheets, and our proportionate share of earnings or losses earned by the real estate venture is recognized in "Mezzanine investment income, net” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. We earn revenues from the loan receivable we provide to this investment. 

On a periodic basis, we evaluate our Mezzanine investment for impairment. We assess whether there are any indicators, including underlying property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of our investment may be impaired. An investment is considered impaired if we determine that its fair value is less than the net carrying value of the investment on an other-than-temporary basis. Cash flow projections for the investments consider property level factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. We consider various qualitative factors to determine if a decrease in the value of our investment is other-than-temporary. These factors include age of the venture, our intent and ability to retain our investment in the entity, financial condition and long-term prospects of the entity and relationships with our partners and banks. If we believe that the decline in the fair value of the investment is temporary, no impairment charge is recorded. If our analysis indicates that there is an other-than temporary impairment related to the investment in a particular real estate venture, the carrying value of the venture will be adjusted to its estimated fair value. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK