PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The Company 

Aimco is a Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994. On December 15, 2020, Aimco completed the Separation, creating two, separate and distinct, publicly traded companies, Aimco and AIR.  

Aimco is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (“REIT”). Aimco, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, is the general partner and directly is the special limited partner of the Aimco Operating Partnership, a Delaware Limited Partnership. Aimco conducts all of its business and owns all of its assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. 

Please refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for discussion regarding our business segments. 

Business Overview 

Aimco benefits from its ownership of a diversified portfolio of stabilized multi-family properties, a safe balance sheet with limited use of corporate credit, access to substantial liquidity, and an embedded pipeline of future investment opportunities.  

 We rely on the skills and experience of our team in building a broad portfolio of value-add real estate investments, primarily focused on the multifamily sector and located within the continental United States. Individual investment strategies include property development, redevelopment, and a wide array of other opportunistic ventures. We plan to fund our investment activities through the redeployment of Aimco equity in combination with debt and third-party equity in order to improve our returns on invested capital and to grow Assets Under Management (“AUM”).  

 Given our stated strategy, it is expected that at any point in time the value-creation process will be ongoing at numerous of our investments and will therefore be difficult to value. Over time, we expect the Aimco enterprise to produce superior returns on equity on a risk-adjusted basis and it is our plan to do so by: 

•  

Managing and investing in the development and redevelopment of real property 

Our dedicated team will source and execute development and redevelopment projects across our national platform. Aimco will seek outsized returns on incremental capital invested, for itself and its partners, through our team’s local insights regarding sub-market fundamentals, the specific property location, a deep understanding of how best to meet the end users’ needs and wants, a disciplined commitment to mitigating risk during the construction process, and a passion for quality. We believe that each of these components are critical to the creation of an investment platform that is both sustainable and viable independent of broader market conditions.  

•  

Managing and investing in other value-add activities (opportunistic investments) 

 We expect to have a broad set of investment opportunities due to our national platform, management’s experience and relationships within the industry, and our longstanding experience in solutions-oriented deal structuring. These opportunities may include, but are not limited to, portfolio acquisitions, programmatic joint ventures, debt placements, operational turnarounds, and re-entitlements. Aimco will undertake such opportunistic value-add transactions when warranted by the prospect of outsized risk-adjusted returns.  

•  

Owning a portfolio of stabilized properties  

We own a geographically diversified portfolio of stabilized properties that produces stable cash flow and serves to balance the risk and highly variable cashflows associated with our portfolio of development and redevelopments and value-add investments.  

•  

Maintaining sufficient liquidity and utilizing financial leverage  

We are highly focused on the importance of maintaining ample liquidity and of limiting our exposure to any single investment. On December 31, 2020, our cash on hand plus capacity to borrow on our revolving credit facility equaled $448.7 million.  

We expect to capitalize our activities through a combination of non-recourse property debt, construction loans, third-party equity, and the recycling of Aimco equity, including through retained earnings. We plan to limit the use of recourse leverage, with a strong preference towards property-level debt in order to limit risk to the Aimco enterprise. When warranted, we plan to seek equity capital from joint venture partners to improve our cost of capital, further leverage Aimco equity, reduce exposure to a single investment and, in certain cases, for strategic benefits.   

•  

Benefiting from a national platform while leveraging local and regional expertise  

2 

Table of Contents 

We have corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado, and Bethesda, Maryland. Our investment platform is managed by experienced professionals based in four regions: West Coast, Central and Mountain West, Mid-Atlantic and Northeast, and Southeast. By regionalizing this platform, we are able to leverage the in-depth local market knowledge of each regional leader, creating a comparative advantage when sourcing, evaluating, and executing investment opportunities. 

Competition 

There are many developers, managers, and owners of apartment real estate and underdeveloped land, as well as REITs, private real estate companies, and investors, that compete with us in acquiring, developing, obtaining financing for, and disposing of apartment communities. This competition affects our ability to realize our real estate development and transactional objectives. 

In addition, our apartment communities compete for residents with other housing alternatives, including other rental apartments and condominiums, and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential housing, as well as household formation and job creation in a particular area, could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to increase or maintain rental rates. 

Taxation 

Aimco 

Aimco has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), commencing with our initial taxable year, and intends to continue to operate in such a manner. The Code imposes various requirements related to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership, and certain restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of income that must be met in order to continue to qualify as a REIT. If Aimco continues to qualify for taxation as a REIT, Aimco will generally not be subject to United States federal corporate income tax on its taxable income that is currently distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the “double taxation” (at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in a corporation. 

Certain of our operations, or a portion thereof, are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a subsidiary C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and, as such, is subject to United States federal corporate income tax. We use TRS entities to perform activities that cannot be performed directly by a REIT.  

The Aimco Operating Partnership 

The Aimco Operating Partnership is treated as a “pass-through” entity for United States federal income tax purposes and is not subject to United States federal income taxation. Partners in the Aimco Operating Partnership, however, are subject to tax on their allocable share of partnership income, gains, losses, deductions, and credits, regardless of whether the partners receive any actual distributions of cash or other property from the Aimco Operating Partnership during the taxable year. Generally, the characterization of any particular item is determined by the Aimco Operating Partnership rather than at the partner level, and the amount of a partner’s allocable share of such item is governed by the terms of the Aimco Operating Partnership’s Partnership Agreement. The Aimco Operating Partnership is subject to tax in certain states. 

Regulation 

General 

Apartment development is subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including those concerning entitlement, building, health and safety, site and building design, environment, zoning, sales, and similar matters apply to or affect the real estate development industry.  

Apartment communities and their owners are subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including those related to real estate broker licensing and regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers, and other common areas.  

Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on communities or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction, and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which could adversely affect our net income and cash flows from operating activities.  

In addition, existing rent control laws, as well as future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws and ordinances regulating multifamily housing, such as eviction moratoriums and governmental lockdowns, may reduce rental revenue or increase operating costs in particular markets. 

3 

Table of Contents 

Environmental 

Various federal, state, and local laws subject real estate owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials that may be present. These materials may include lead-based paint, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, and petroleum-based fuels. Such laws often impose liability without regard to fault or whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such materials. In connection with the ownership of real estate, we could potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs associated with our real estate, whether currently owned, acquired in the future, or owned in the past. These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Corporate Responsibility 

Our corporate responsibility is an important part of our business. As with all other aspects of our business, our corporate responsibility program focuses on continuous improvement, to the benefit of our stockholders, our residents, our team members and our communities.  

Team and Culture 

Our team and culture are keys to our success. Our intentional focus on collaborative and productive culture based on respect for others and personal responsibility is reinforced by a preference for promotion from within. We focus on succession planning and talent development to produce a strong, stable team that is the enduring foundation of our success. We offer benefits reinforcing our value of caring for each other, including paid time for parental leave, paid time annually to volunteer in local communities, and a bonus structure at all levels of the organization. We also pay full compensation benefits for team members who are actively deployed by the United States military. 

We are responsible for and implement succession planning in all leadership positions, both in the short term and the long term.  

We evaluate team engagement, retention, and efficiency and include those in our goals on which all team members are compensated. Every team member is surveyed via a third-party, confidential survey on his or her annual anniversary of employment. The team member engagement score consists of the average of the responses to the questions that comprise the engagement index, on a scale of 1 to 5, for all team members who complete the survey during the year. Aimco’s overall team member engagement score for the 2020 Annual Lifecycle Surveys was 4.42, compared to the target of 4.20.  

As of December 31, 2020, we had 52 full-time team members, approximately two-thirds performing development or transactional services with the balance managing corporate and area functions, including debt and capital market transactions, legal, finance, accounting, and other support functions. None of our employees are represented by labor unions. 

Our focus on our team and culture is recognized externally, as well. Out of hundreds of participating companies in 2020, we were one of only six recognized as a “Top Workplace” in Colorado for each of the past eight years, and were one of only two real estate companies to receive a BEST award from the Association for Talent Development in recognition of our company-wide success in talent development, marking our third consecutive year receiving this award.  

Available Information 

Our combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, our combined Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership, and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable through Aimco’s website at www.aimco.com. The information contained on Aimco’s website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS