Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

(amounts in millions, except percentages)

Interest Rate Risk

We have historically invested our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally money market funds, bank deposits, corporate bonds, municipal bonds, commercial paper and government-related obligations which are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. Our investment portfolio has historically been comprised of marketable debt securities of highly rated financial institutions and investment-grade debt instruments, and we have guidelines to limit the term-to-maturity of our investments. During the second quarter of 2020, we liquidated all of our available-for-sale debt securities to fund the acquisition of Portola. As of December 31, 2020, our investment portfolio primarily consists of money market funds and mutual funds. Based on the type of securities we hold, we do not believe a change in interest rates would have a material impact on our financial statements. If interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1%, the fair value of our investment portfolio would increase (decrease) by an insignificant amount.

On June 7, 2018, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement), with Bank of America N.A. as administrative agent. The Credit Agreement amended and restated our credit agreement dated as of June 22, 2015. Loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at our option, at either the base rate or a Eurodollar rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. Under the Credit Agreement, the applicable margins on base rate loans range from 0.25% to 1.00% and the applicable margins on Eurodollar loans range from 1.25% to 2.00%, in each case based on our consolidated net leverage ratio (as calculated in accordance with the Credit Agreement).

Changes in interest rates related to the Credit Agreement could have a material effect on our financial statements. 

To achieve a desired mix of floating and fixed interest rates on our term loan, we entered into a number of interest rate swap agreements that qualified for and are designated as cash flow hedges. As of December 31, 2020, we had cash flow hedges with aggregate amounts of approximately 73.4% of our current outstanding term loan covering periods over the next twelve months. If interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1.00%, interest expense, over the next year would increase or decrease by $5.7, based on the unhedged portion of our outstanding term loan as of December 31, 2020.

Foreign Exchange Market Risk

Our operations include activities in many countries outside the U.S. As a result, our financial results are impacted by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets where we operate. We have exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, the most significant of which are the Euro and Japanese Yen, against the U.S. dollar. We are a net receiver of many foreign currencies, and our consolidated financial results benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely impacted by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies in which we sell our products.

Our monetary exposures on our balance sheet arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. Approximately 39.0% of our net product sales were denominated in foreign currencies during 2020, and our revenues are also exposed to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates over time. In certain foreign countries, we may sell in U.S. dollar, but our customers may be impacted adversely by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which may also impact the timing and amount of our revenue.

Both positive and negative impacts to our international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are only partially mitigated by the natural, opposite impact that foreign currency exchange rates have on our international operating expenses. Additionally, we have operations based in Europe and accordingly, our expenses are impacted by fluctuations in the value of the Euro against the U.S. dollar.

We currently have a derivative program in place intended to achieve the following: (1) limit the foreign currency exposure of our monetary assets and liabilities on our balance sheet, using contracts with durations of up to 6 months and (2) hedge a portion of our forecasted product sales (in some currencies), including intercompany sales, and certain forecasted expenses using contracts with durations of up to 60 months. The objective of this program is to reduce the volatility of our operating results due to fluctuation of foreign exchange. This program utilizes foreign exchange forward contracts intended to reduce, not eliminate, the volatility of operating results due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.

As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we held foreign exchange forward contracts with notional amounts totaling $3,253.5 and $3,078.5, respectively. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, our outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts had a net fair value of $(55.2) and $2.8, respectively. 

We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. The counterparties 

111

to these foreign exchange forward contracts are large domestic and multinational commercial banks. We believe the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material.

Based on our foreign currency exchange rate exposures at December 31, 2020, a hypothetical 10% adverse fluctuation in exchange rates would decrease the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges by approximately $127.5 at December 31, 2020. The resulting loss on these forward contracts would be offset by the gain on the underlying transactions and therefore would have minimal impact on future anticipated earnings and cash flows. Similarly, adverse fluctuations in exchange rates that would decrease the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts that are not designated as hedge instruments would be offset by a positive impact of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities.

Credit Risk

As a result of our foreign operations, we are exposed to changes in the general economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business. The majority of our receivables are due from wholesale distributors, public hospitals and other government entities. We monitor the financial performance and creditworthiness of our large customers so that we can properly assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. We continue to monitor these conditions, including the volatility associated with international economies, the COVID-19 pandemic and the relevant financial markets, and assess their possible impact on our business. Although collection of our accounts receivables from certain countries may extend beyond our standard credit terms and while we have begun to see an increase in requests for extended payment terms with certain customers as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have not experienced any significant losses with respect to collection of our accounts receivable and we do not expect any such delays to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

Item 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.