Item 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

(amounts in millions, except percentages and per share data)

In addition to historical information, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties which may cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations, plans and anticipated results discussed in forward-looking statements. We encourage you to review the risks and uncertainties, discussed in the section entitled item 1A “Risk Factors”, and the “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”, included at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties can cause actual results to differ significantly from those forecasted in forward-looking statements or implied in historical results and trends.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Overview

Alexion is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on serving patients and families affected by rare diseases and devastating conditions through the discovery, development and commercialization of life-changing medicines.

As a leader in rare diseases for more than 25 years, Alexion has developed and commercializes two approved complement inhibitors to treat patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), as well as the first and only approved complement inhibitor to treat anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody-positive generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG) and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) in patients who are anti-aquaporin-4 (AQP4) antibody positive. Alexion also has two highly innovative enzyme replacement therapies and the first and only approved therapies for patients with life-threatening and ultra-rare metabolic disorders, hypophosphatasia (HPP) and lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D). With the acquisition of Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Portola) in July 2020, we added the first and only approved Factor Xa inhibitor reversal agent for patients treated with rivaroxaban or apixaban when reversal of anticoagulation is needed due to life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.

In addition to our marketed therapies, we have a diverse pipeline resulting from internal innovation and business development. Alexion focuses its research efforts on novel molecules and targets in the complement cascade and development efforts on the core therapeutic areas of hematology, nephrology, 

neurology, metabolic disorders, cardiology, ophthalmology and acute care.

Merger Agreement with AstraZeneca

On December 12, 2020, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with AstraZeneca PLC, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales (AstraZeneca), Delta Omega Sub Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of AstraZeneca (Bidco), Delta Omega Sub Holdings Inc. 1, a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Bidco (Merger Sub I) and Delta Omega Sub Holdings LLC 2, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Bidco (Merger Sub II). The Merger Agreement provides, among other things, that subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth therein (1) Merger Sub I will merge with and into Alexion (the “First Merger”), with Alexion surviving the First Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Bidco, and (2) immediately following the effective time of the First Merger (the Effective Time), Alexion will merge with and into Merger Sub II (the Second Merger and, together with the First Merger, the Mergers), with Merger Sub II surviving the Second Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Bidco and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AstraZeneca.

Under the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time (as defined in the Merger Agreement), each share of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of Alexion issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than certain excluded shares as described in the Merger Agreement) will be converted into the right to receive (1) 2.1243 American depositary shares of AstraZeneca (or, at the election of the holder thereof, a number of ordinary shares of AstraZeneca equal to the number of underlying ordinary shares represented by such American depositary shares) and (2) $60.00 in cash, without interest (collectively, the “Merger Consideration”).

The boards of directors of both companies have unanimously approved the acquisition. 

The respective obligations of Alexion and AstraZeneca to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of customary conditions, including: (1) the adoption of the Merger Agreement by Alexion’s stockholders; (2) approval of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement by AstraZeneca’s shareholders; (3) the absence of any law or order prohibiting consummation of the Mergers; (4) AstraZeneca’s registration statement on Form F-4 having been declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission; (5) AstraZeneca’s shareholder circular (or, if required, prospectus) having been approved by the U.K. Financial 

83

Conduct Authority; (6) the American depository shares of AstraZeneca issuable in the Mergers (and the ordinary shares of AstraZeneca represented thereby) having been approved for listing on the Nasdaq; (7) the expiration or early termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the approval of the Mergers under the antitrust and foreign investment laws of other specified jurisdictions; (8) accuracy of the other party’s representations and warranties, subject to certain materiality standards set forth in the Merger Agreement and (9) compliance by the other party in all material respects with such other party’s obligations under the Merger Agreement.

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we are subject to a variety of specified restrictions under the Merger Agreement. Unless we obtain AstraZeneca’s prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and except (i) as required or expressly contemplated by the Merger Agreement, (ii) as required by applicable law or (iii) as set forth in the confidential disclosure schedule delivered by Alexion to AstraZeneca, we may not, among other things and subject to certain exceptions and aggregate limitations, incur additional indebtedness, issue additional shares of our common stock outside of our equity incentive plans, repurchase our common stock, pay dividends, acquire assets, securities or property, dispose of businesses or assets, enter into material contracts or make certain additional capital expenditures.

The transaction is not subject to a financing condition. To support the financing of the offer consideration, AstraZeneca has entered into a new committed $17,500.0 bridge-financing facility, provided by Morgan Stanley, J.P. Morgan Securities plc and Goldman Sachs.

Under the Merger Agreement, Alexion will be required to make a payment to AstraZeneca equal to $1,180.0 if the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, including because the Alexion board of directors has changed its recommendation in favor of the Mergers or we terminated the Merger Agreement in order to enter into an agreement providing for a Company Superior Proposal (as defined in the Merger Agreement), and Alexion will be required to make a payment to AstraZeneca equal to $270.0 if the Merger Agreement is terminated because Alexion’s stockholders fail to adopt the Merger Agreement. AstraZeneca will be required to make a payment to Alexion equal to $1,415.0 if the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances, including because the AstraZeneca board of directors has changed its recommendation in favor of the Mergers or because AstraZeneca’s shareholders fail to approve the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.

The acquisition is expected to close during the 

third quarter 2021, and upon completion, Alexion stockholders will own approximately 15.0% of the combined company.

Recent Developments 

On November 20, 2020, we announced that the European Commission (EC) approved the ULTOMIRIS (ravulizumab) 100 mg/mL intravenous (IV) formulation for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) and for atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS). ULTOMIRIS 100 mg/mL is an advancement in the treatment experience for patients with aHUS and PNH, as it reduces average annual infusion times by approximately 60 percent compared to ULTOMIRIS 10 mg/mL while delivering safety and efficacy consistent with the ULTOMIRIS 10 mg/mL formulation.

In January 2021, Alexion entered into a definitive asset purchase agreement with Rhythm Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Rhythm”) to acquire its Rare Pediatric Disease Priority Review Voucher (PRV) for $100.0. Alexion’s acquisition of Rhythm’s PRV is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and approval from relevant regulatory agencies, including the expiration or early termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act. Upon closing, we will make a $100.0 cash payment and we expect to capitalize the PRV as an acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) intangible asset.

COVID-19 Pandemic

During the first quarter of 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the COVID-19 public health crisis a pandemic and recommended containment and mitigation measures worldwide. On March 13, 2020, former U.S. President Trump announced a National Emergency relating to the pandemic. Government authorities worldwide have recommended or imposed various social distancing, quarantine and isolation measures on large portions of the population. While the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to date on our business has been less than we had initially forecast, it is evolving rapidly and its future effects are difficult to predict with meaningful precision as the impact will depend on many factors beyond the Company’s control and knowledge. As the pandemic continues, we continue to take steps that are designed to respond proactively to evolving events and planning for COVID-19 uncertainties. We remain focused on continuing to serve patients, protecting the health and safety of our employees and the communities in which we live and work, and supporting our patients in clinical trials. 

In early March 2020, we activated a task force designed to assess, mitigate and manage the risks related to COVID-19 to avoid or minimize business disruption, including safeguarding of our facilities, and 

84

to ensure the safety and sense of security for our staff. In early March 2020, Alexion closed all sites to non-essential employees and the Company has suspended all travel indefinitely. In early June 2020, Alexion gradually allowed re-entry to certain sites in some geographies through a pilot program, including Switzerland, Germany, Australia, and Japan in accordance with local government laws, regulations and restrictions and our own safety procedures and checklists. In September 2020, we extended our global guidance to employees to strongly encourage working remotely until at least July 2021, while offering limited access to physical sites through pilot programs. Office sites are being reconfigured to maintain physical distancing and we expect to adopt and implement additional precautions commensurate with any expansion of employees returning to worksites. To date, our remote working arrangements have not significantly affected our ability to maintain critical business operations.

We are focused on protecting patient and customer safety as well as providing an uninterrupted supply of medicines for patients around the world. We have taken proactive measures that are designed to mitigate the risk of potential supply interruptions, and we strive to maintain sufficient inventory levels to continue serving current and new patients receiving our medicines for approved indications, as well as those participating in ongoing clinical trials. We and our third-party contract manufacturing partners continue to operate manufacturing facilities at near normal levels.

We are monitoring the demand for our products as due to quarantines, travel restrictions, hospital policies and patient concerns regarding exposure to COVID-19, we have observed fewer patient/doctor interactions, we have also noted that the new patient productivity and initiation queue has decreased since the COVID-19 outbreak (particularly in our neurological indications) and our representatives are having fewer in-person visits with health care providers, including for infusion of our products which has adversely impacted our revenue growth in the current year and may continue to affect our revenue growth in the future. We have been proactively engaging with healthcare professionals virtually and through enhanced digital channels in an effort to mitigate this risk. Additionally, we continue to actively monitor potential further impacts on our business such as growth in unemployment and loss of commercial insurance coverage and/or growth in Medicaid with higher discounts.

We have preclinical studies and clinical testing ongoing across the globe. We have a business continuity plan for our preclinical and clinical trials, including a pandemic response plan. A number of clinical trial sites are restricting site visits and imposing restrictions on the initiation of new trials and 

patient visits to protect both site staff and patients from possible COVID-19 exposure. Given the safety concerns around COVID-19 and the associated risk to maintaining normal clinical trial operations, we are making decisions study-by-study and country-by-country to minimize the risk to the patients and facilities, and there has been and may continue to be an impact on the timing of trials that are under active enrollment. The majority of clinical trials that were paused at the onset of the pandemic have resumed, however we are continuing to experience impact to enrollment for some studies. We are actively implementing remote and local procedures per guidance of the FDA.

In May 2020, Alexion initiated a global Phase III study to investigate ULTOMIRIS® (ravulizumab-cwvz) in a subset of adult patients with COVID-19, who are hospitalized with severe COVID-19 requiring mechanical ventilation. In January 2021, we paused further enrollment in the trial due to lack of efficacy, pending further analysis of the data. This decision was made based on the recommendation of an independent data monitoring committee following their review of data from a pre-specified interim analysis.

The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, including our commercial results and clinical trials, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, such as the ultimate geographic spread of the virus, the duration of the outbreak, governmental regulations and restrictions, travel restrictions and actions to contain the outbreak or treat its impact. We continue to be responsive to the ever-changing situation while remaining true to our core values.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The significant accounting policies and basis of preparation of our consolidated financial statements are described in Note 1, Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preparation of these financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and other related disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We believe the judgments, estimates and assumptions associated with the following critical accounting policies have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements:

•Revenue recognition;

•Contingent liabilities;

•Share-based compensation;

85

•Valuation of acquired assets, including goodwill, intangible assets and inventory;

•Valuation of contingent consideration; and

•Income taxes.

Revenue Recognition

Our principal source of revenue is product sales. Our contracts with customers generally contain a single performance obligation and we recognize revenue from product sales when we have satisfied our performance obligation by transferring control of the product to our customers. Control of the product generally transfers to the customer upon delivery. In certain countries, we sell to distributors on a consignment basis and record revenue when control of the product transfers to the customer upon sale to the end user.

Revenue is recognized at the amount to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for the sale of our products. This amount includes both fixed and variable consideration and excludes amounts that are collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities, such as value-added taxes in foreign jurisdictions. 

Variability in the transaction price for our products pursuant to our contracts with customers primarily arises from the following:

Discounts and Rebates: We offer discounts and rebates to certain distributors and customers under our arrangements. In many cases, these amounts are fixed at the time of sale and the transaction price is reduced accordingly. We also provide for rebates under certain governmental programs, including Medicaid in the U.S. and other programs outside the U.S., which are payable based on actual claim data. We estimate these rebates based on an analysis of historical claim patterns and estimates of customer mix to determine which sales will be subject to rebates and the amount of such rebates. Generally, the length of time between product sale and the processing and reporting of the rebates is three to six months.

Volume-Based Arrangements: We have entered into volume-based arrangements with governments in certain countries and other customers in which reimbursement is limited to a contractual amount. Under this type of arrangement, amounts billed in excess of the contractual limitation are repaid to the customer as a rebate. We estimate incremental discounts resulting from these contractual limitations, based on forecasted sales during the limitation period, and we apply the discount percentage to product shipments as a reduction of revenue. Our calculations related to these arrangements require estimation of sales during the limitation period.

We believe the methodology used to accrue for discounts and rebates is reasonable and appropriate 

given current facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ.

We have provided balances and activity in the rebates payable account for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Included in the adjustments related to prior years is an accrual recorded in 2019 related to the PMPRB matter. Refer to Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies for additional information.

Current provisions relating to sales in the current year increased by $72.8 in 2020 compared to 2019 and $87.3 in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase in 2020, 2019 and 2018 was primarily due to increased unit volumes in the U.S. which were subject to rebates as well as increases in rebate rates in the U.S. on certain product sales.

Contingent Liabilities

We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. On a quarterly basis, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim, asserted or unasserted, or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to claims and litigation, accruals are based on the best information available at the time of our assessment including the legal facts and circumstances of the case, status of the proceedings, applicable law and the likelihood of settlement, if any. On a periodic basis, as additional information becomes available, or based on specific events such as the outcome of litigation or settlement of claims (and our offers of settlement), we may reassess the potential liability related to these matters and may revise these estimates, when facts and circumstances indicate the need for any change.

86

Share-Based Compensation

The Company recognizes compensation expense associated with the issuance of equity instruments that may be granted to our directors, officers, employees and consultants or advisors of the Company or any subsidiary. To date, share-based compensation issued consists of incentive and non-qualified stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units, including restricted stock units with market and non-market performance conditions, and shares issued under our ESPP.

Compensation expense for our share-based awards is recognized based on the estimated fair value of the awards on the grant date. Compensation expense reflects an estimate of the number of awards expected to vest and is primarily recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the individual grants, which typically equals the vesting period. Compensation expense for awards with performance conditions is recognized using the graded-vesting method. 

Significant judgments and assumptions are used in estimating compensation cost for restricted stock units containing market-based performance conditions as well as non-market performance conditions relating to the achievement of operational metrics. We use payout simulation models to estimate the grant date fair value of awards with market-based performance conditions. The payout simulation models assume volatility of our common stock and the common stock of a comparator group of companies, as well as correlations of returns of the price of our common stock and the common stock prices of the comparator group. For our non-market performance-based awards, we estimate the anticipated achievement of the performance targets, including forecasting the achievement of future financial targets. These estimates are revised periodically based on the probability of achieving the performance targets and adjustments are made throughout the performance period as necessary. Changes in estimates and probability of achieving the performance targets could have a material impact on our results of operations.

Valuation of Acquired Assets, Including Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Inventory

We have recorded goodwill, acquired intangible assets and inventory related to our business combinations. When identifiable intangible assets, including IPR&D, are acquired, we determine the fair values of the assets as of the acquisition date. An income approach, which generally relies upon forecasted cash flow models, is typically used in these valuations if quoted market prices are not available. These valuations require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to:

•timing and costs to complete the in-process projects;

•timing and probability of success of clinical events or regulatory approvals;

•estimated future cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in-process projects, which consider competitive trends impacting the assets;

•tax rates; and

•discount rates

We may also utilize a cost approach, which estimates the costs that would be incurred to replace the assets being purchased. Significant inputs into the cost approach include estimated rates of return on historical costs that a market participant would expect to pay for these assets.

Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are tested for impairment at least annually or when a triggering event occurs that could indicate a potential impairment. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment if triggering events occur. When performing our impairment assessment for definite-lived intangible assets, we rely upon cash flow projections attributable to the asset to determine if the carrying value of the asset is recoverable, on an undiscounted cash flow basis. If the carrying value of a definite lived intangible asset is not recoverable, or if there is an indicator of impairment on an indefinite-lived intangible asset, we will recognize an impairment in the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. We calculate the fair value of these assets using discounted cash flow models which require the use of significant estimates and judgements which include, but are not limited to, probability of success of clinical events or regulatory approvals, discount rates, and estimated future cash flows from product sales. Changes to assumptions used in our cash flow projections could result in an impairment. Impairments are recorded within impairment of intangible assets in our consolidated statements of operations.

During the quarter ended June 30, 2020, based on continued challenges expanding patient growth and new alternative commercial opportunities, we revised our strategic view of KANUMA and determined that we have exhausted commercially viable initiatives related to KANUMA and will have difficulty expanding patient growth over the long term as we focus on promoting other commercial programs and growing our pipeline. As a result, we no longer expect to increase the number of KANUMA patients in the long term at the rate previously assumed. This determination resulted in reduced cash flow projections for KANUMA, which indicated that the related intangible asset value was 

87

not fully recoverable on an undiscounted cash flows basis. As of June 30, 2020, we utilized market participant assumptions to determine its best estimate of the fair value of the intangible asset related to KANUMA that, when compared with its related carrying value, resulted in an impairment charge of $2,042.3.

The estimated fair value of the KANUMA asset as of June 30, 2020 was determined using the excess earnings method, a variation of the income approach. The excess earnings method estimates the value of an intangible asset equal to the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable to that intangible asset over its remaining economic life. Long term cash flow projections for the asset require the use of significant estimates and judgements, including forecasted revenue growth rates, forecasted cost of goods sold and the discount rate, and were based on our most recent strategic plan. The fair value of the asset was determined using an estimated weighted average cost of capital of 10.0%, which reflects the risks inherent in future cash flow projections and represents a rate of return that a market participant would expect for this asset. The estimated revenue growth rates fluctuate over the life of the asset, with a weighted average growth rate in the low single digits. We believe our assumptions are consistent with the plans and estimates that a market participant would use to manage the business. The estimated fair value of the KANUMA intangible asset as of June 30, 2020 was $820.0 and will continue to be amortized over its remaining estimated useful life. The carrying value of the KANUMA intangible asset as of December 31, 2020 was $782.7.

Inventory acquired in connection with the acquisition of a business is measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and requires the use of significant estimates, which include the expected selling price of the inventory, estimated costs to complete the manufacturing process and dispose of the inventory, a reasonable profit allowance for the remaining manufacturing and selling effort, estimated holding periods based on internal forecasts of demand and discount rates. We exclude from the value of acquired inventory any excess quantities that we do not expect to be salable based on future projected inventory requirements. If future demand or market conditions are lower than our projections as of the acquisition date, we may be required to write down the value of inventory through a charge to cost of sales in the period the revision is made.

Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination and is not amortized. Goodwill is subject to impairment testing at least annually or when a triggering event occurs that could indicate a potential impairment. We are organized and operate as a single reporting unit and therefore the goodwill impairment 

test is performed using our overall market value, as determined by our traded share price, compared to our book value of net assets.

Valuation of Contingent Consideration

We record contingent consideration resulting from a business combination at its fair value on the acquisition date. We determine the fair value of the contingent consideration based primarily on the following factors:

•timing and probability of success of clinical events or regulatory approvals;

•timing and probability of success of meeting commercial milestones, such as estimated future sales levels of a specific compound; and

•discount rates.

Our contingent consideration liabilities arose in connection with our business combinations. On a quarterly basis, we revalue these obligations and record increases or decreases in their fair value as an adjustment to operating earnings. Changes to contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to discount rates, accretion of the discount rates due to the passage of time, changes in our estimates of the likelihood or timing of achieving development or commercial milestones, changes in the probability of certain clinical events or changes in the assumed probability associated with regulatory approval. 

The assumptions related to determining the value of contingent consideration include a significant amount of judgment, and any changes in the underlying estimates could have a material impact on the amount of contingent consideration expense recorded in any given period.

Income Taxes

We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for years in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse. 

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted into law. The Tax Act decreased the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate for years beginning after December 31, 2017, and included other domestic and international tax provisions that affect the measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. As of December 22, 2018, our accounting for the impact of the Tax Act was complete. Refer to Note 12, Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere 

88

in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.

If our estimate of the tax effect of reversing temporary differences is not reflective of actual outcomes, is modified to reflect new developments or interpretations of the tax law, revised to incorporate new accounting principles, or changes in the expected timing or manner of the reversal our results of operations could be materially impacted. 

We follow the authoritative guidance regarding accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. These unrecognized tax benefits relate primarily to issues common among multinational corporations in our industry. We apply a variety of methodologies in making these estimates which include studies performed by independent economists, advice from industry and subject experts, evaluation of public actions taken by the IRS and other taxing authorities, as well as our own industry experience. We provide estimates for unrecognized tax benefits which may be subject to material adjustments until matters are resolved with taxing authorities or statutes expire. If our estimates are not representative of actual outcomes, our results of operations could be materially impacted.

We continue to maintain a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain. We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, various income tax strategies and other relevant factors. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment and, to the extent future expectations change, we would assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets at that time. If we determine that the deferred tax assets are not realizable in a future period, we will record adjustments to income tax expense in that period, and such adjustments may be material.

During the fourth quarter of 2013, in connection with the centralization of our global supply chain and technical operations in Ireland, our U.S. parent company became a direct partner in a captive foreign partnership. Our corporate structure, which derives income from multiple jurisdictions, requires us to interpret the related tax laws and regulations within those jurisdictions and develop estimates and assumptions regarding significant future events, such 

as the amount, timing and character of deductions and the applicability of foreign tax credits. From time to time, we execute intercompany transactions that may impact the valuation of the captive foreign partnership and the corresponding interest allocated to each partner, resulting in a change to deferred taxes. The transactions and related valuations require the application of transfer pricing guidelines issued by the relevant taxing authorities. Significant estimates and assumptions within discounted cash flow models are also required to calculate the valuations. These estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, estimated future operating cash flows, revenue growth rate assumptions, long-range pricing expectations, patient-related assumptions and other significant inputs such as discount rates and rates of return.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2019-12, “Income Taxes: Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes”: In December 2019, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard intended to simplify the accounting for income taxes by eliminating certain exceptions related to the approach for intraperiod tax allocation, the methodology for calculating income taxes in an interim period and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities for outside basis differences. The new standard also simplifies aspects of the accounting for franchise taxes and enacted changes in tax laws or rates and clarifies the accounting for transactions that result in a step-up in the tax basis of goodwill. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020 and interim periods within, with early adoption permitted. Adoption of the standard requires certain changes to be made prospectively, with some changes to be made retrospectively. We adopted the new standard on January 1, 2021. We have substantially completed our assessment of the standard and we do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

ASU 2020-01, “Investments - Equity Securities, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures, and Derivatives and Hedging - Clarifying the Interactions Between Topic 321, Topic 323, and Topic 815”: In January 2020, the FASB issued a new standard intended to clarify the interactions between Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 321, ASC 323 and ASC 815. The new standard addresses accounting for the transition into and out of the equity method and measurement of certain purchased options and forward contracts to acquire investments. The standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted. Adoption of the standard requires changes to be made prospectively. We adopted the new standard on 

89

January 1, 2021. The adoption of this standard does not have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

ASU 2020-04, “Reference Rate Reform, Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting": In response to concerns about structural risks of interbank offered rates, and, particularly, the risk of cessation of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), regulators around the world have undertaken reference rate reform initiatives to identify alternative reference rates that are more observable or transaction-based and less susceptible to manipulation. In March 2020, the FASB issued a new standard that provides optional guidance for a limited time to ease the potential burden in accounting for the effects of reference rate reform, including optional expedients and exceptions for the accounting implications of contracts, hedging relationships, and other transactions affected by reference rate reform if certain criteria are met.

The amendments in this new standard only apply to contracts and hedging relationships that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued due to reference rate reform. The expedients and exceptions provided by the standard do not apply to contract modifications made and hedging relationships entered into or evaluated after December 31, 2022. We are currently reviewing our contracts impacted by reference rate reform and are assessing the impact of this standard on our financial condition and results of operations.

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

ASU 2018-15, "Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract": In August 2018, the FASB issued a new standard on a customer's accounting for implementation, set-up, and other upfront costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement (CCA) that aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs in a CCA service contract with existing internal-use software guidance. The standard also provides classification guidance on these implementation costs as well as additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. The standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and can be adopted prospectively or retrospectively.

We adopted the new standard on January 1, 2020 on a prospective basis. The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial statements at the date of adoption; however, we anticipate the adoption of this standard will result in an increase in capitalized assets related to qualifying CCA implementation costs in future periods. 

Qualifying CCA implementation, set-up and other upfront costs incurred after January 1, 2020 are capitalized as other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. These assets will be expensed over the term of the hosting arrangement and such expense will be presented within the same line item in our consolidated statements of operations as the expense for fees for the associated hosting arrangement. These capitalized costs will be evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the capitalized implementation costs is not recoverable. For the year ended December 31, 2020, capitalized CCA implementation costs were not material.

 ASU 2016-13, "Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments": In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard intended to improve reporting requirements specific to loans, receivables and other financial instruments. The new standard requires that credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost be determined using an expected loss model, instead of the current incurred loss model, and requires that credit losses related to available-for-sale debt securities be recorded through an allowance for credit losses and limited to the amount by which carrying value exceeds fair value. The new standard also requires enhanced disclosure of credit risk associated with financial assets. The standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted.

We adopted the new standard on January 1, 2020 and completed our assessment of the standard based on the composition of our portfolio of financial instruments and current and forecasted economic conditions at that date. Our significant financial assets that are within the scope of the new standard consist of trade accounts receivable and available for sale debt securities. We have not historically experienced any material credit losses associated with our trade accounts receivable or available for debt securities. 

We monitor economic conditions, including volatility associated with international economies and the associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. We disaggregate our trade accounts receivable population into pools of similar risk characteristics based on underlying customer type and geographical location. Current expected credit loss allowances are estimated for each risk pool based on available information, including i) historical credit loss experience, ii) current economic conditions and, iii) reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions that may affect the collectibility of the recorded amounts. Based on the relevant facts and economic conditions as of the date of adoption, we concluded that the expected credit losses on our trade accounts receivable were immaterial. Additionally, unrealized losses on our available for sale investment 

90

portfolio were immaterial. 

As of December 31, 2020, we reassessed our estimated credit losses on our trade accounts receivable, including consideration of the potential impacts of the COVID-19 global pandemic. Based on 

the relevant facts and economic conditions as of December 31, 2020, we concluded that the expected credit losses on our trade accounts receivable continued to be immaterial.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated. This information has been derived from the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

91

Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 

Net Product Sales

Net product sales by product and significant geographic region are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** Percentages not meaningful

92

Net Product Sales (consolidated) 

United StatesAsia Pacific

EuropeRest of World

SOLIRIS net product sales

United StatesAsia Pacific

EuropeRest of World

ULTOMIRIS net product sales

United StatesAsia Pacific

EuropeRest of World

STRENSIQ net product sales

United StatesAsia Pacific

EuropeRest of World

ANDEXXA net product sales

United StatesAsia Pacific

EuropeRest of World

KANUMA net product sales

United StatesAsia Pacific

EuropeRest of World

93

The increase in net product sales for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to an increase in unit volumes. The increase in unit volumes was primarily due to increased global demand for SOLIRIS therapy, with sales to patients with gMG and NMOSD being the largest drivers. As a result of continued patient conversion, ULTOMIRIS unit volumes for PNH and aHUS also increased due to an increase in PNH and aHUS patients on ULTOMIRIS therapy, inclusive of the loading dose impact required in a patient's first year on therapy. Partially offsetting this increase was the continued conversion of PNH and aHUS patients from SOLIRIS to ULTOMIRIS, resulting in a decrease in SOLIRIS PNH and aHUS revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Additional unit volume increases were due primarily to increased demand for STRENSIQ during 2020 and contributions of $78.5 from ANDEXXA as a result of the Portola acquisition that closed on July 2, 2020.

As a result of patient conversion from SOLIRIS to ULTOMIRIS, we expect variability in our revenues in future quarters due to the extended ULTOMIRIS dosing interval and infusion timing which may result in either one or two infusions in a quarter. ULTOMIRIS loading doses for PNH patients will result in increased revenues during a patient’s first year on therapy. The ULTOMIRIS annual maintenance dose for PNH and aHUS requires fewer vials as compared to the annual dose for SOLIRIS. Due to the decision to price ULTOMIRIS lower than SOLIRIS on an annual basis, we anticipate U.S. revenues will be unfavorably impacted by the lower annual cost per patient in maintenance years, with the impact more pronounced for aHUS due to the greater decrease in vials for aHUS ULTOMIRIS patients.

The increase in net product sales for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to same period in 2018, was primarily due to an increase in unit volumes. This increase in unit volumes was primarily due to increased global demand for SOLIRIS therapy, with sales to patients with gMG being the largest driver, as well as ULTOMIRIS volumes due to the loading doses required in a patient's first year on therapy. Partially offsetting the SOLIRIS increase was the conversion of PNH patients from SOLIRIS to ULTOMIRIS. While ULTOMIRIS contributed to 2019, the ULTOMIRIS volumes were primarily attributable to PNH patient conversion from SOLIRIS in the U.S. Additional unit volume increases were due to increased demand of STRENSIQ and KANUMA during 2019 as a result of our continued efforts to identify and reach more patients with HPP and LAL-D globally.

The increase in net product sales for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to same period in 2018, was partially offset by price decreases 

of which the largest driver was $29.8, or 0.7%, as a result of a judicial order issued in the second quarter 2019 related to SOLIRIS pricing in Canada. The decision led to a reduction of revenue in the second quarter of 2019 and further reductions in all subsequent quarters until the appeals process concludes. The reduction of revenue recorded for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes the impact for the period from September 2017 to December 2019.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken proactive measures that are designed to mitigate the risk of potential supply interruptions, and we strive to maintain sufficient inventory levels to continue serving current and new patients receiving our medicines for approved indications. Due to quarantines, travel restrictions, hospital policies and patient concerns regarding exposure to COVID-19, we have observed fewer patient/doctor interactions, we have also noted that the new patient productivity and initiation queue has decreased since the COVID-19 outbreak (particularly in our neurological indications) and our representatives are having fewer in-person visits with health care providers, including for infusion of our products which has adversely impacted our revenue growth in the current year and may continue to affect our revenue growth in the future. However, we are proactively engaging with healthcare professionals virtually and through enhanced digital channels in an effort to mitigate this risk.

94

Cost of Sales (exclusive of amortization of purchased intangible assets)

Cost of sales includes manufacturing costs, actual and estimated royalty expenses associated with sales of our products, and amortization of licensing rights.

The following table summarizes cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:

Cost of Sales

●Cost of sales as a percentage of net product sales

The increase of cost of sales as a percentage of net product sales for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to amortization of the ANDEXXA inventory fair value step-up recognized in purchase accounting for Portola, inventory obsolescence reserves recorded and a charge associated with excess manufacturing capacity due to COVID-19 impact.

Exclusive of the items mentioned above, cost of sales as a percentage of net product sales was 8.2% and 7.9% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

As a result of the Portola acquisition completed on July 2, 2020, we expect cost of goods sold to increase in future periods as compared to prior periods due to the amortization of ANDEXXA inventory fair value step-up adjustments which will be recognized as the acquired ANDEXXA inventory is sold.

The decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of net product sales for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to decreases in royalty expenses due to a contract expiration that occurred in the fourth quarter 2018. Additionally, cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 included asset related charges of $5.8 associated with the closure of the ARIMF facility announced in the third quarter of 2017 (this facility was sold in 2018). These charges 

primarily relate to impairment of manufacturing assets.

Research and Development Expense

Research and Development Expense (R&D)

●R&D as a % of net product sales

Our research and development expense includes personnel, facility and direct costs associated with the research and development (R&D) of our product candidates, as well as product development costs. For additional information on our development programs, please refer to Product and Development Programs in Item I Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

R&D expenses are comprised of costs paid for clinical development, product development and discovery research, as well as costs associated with certain strategic licensing agreements and R&D-related asset purchase agreements which we have entered into with third parties. Clinical development costs are comprised of costs to conduct and manage clinical trials related to product candidates. Product development costs are those incurred in performing duties related to manufacturing development and regulatory functions, including manufacturing of material for clinical and research activities and other administrative costs incurred during product development. Discovery research costs are incurred in conducting laboratory studies and performing preclinical research for other uses of our current products and other new product candidates. Upfront payments include upfront payments related to strategic licensing agreements and R&D-related asset purchase agreements. Subsequent milestone payments incurred under such agreements which relate to R&D activities are classified as clinical, discovery or product development costs based on the nature of the underlying milestone event.

Other R&D expenses consist of costs to compensate personnel, to maintain our facilities and equipment, and other occupancy costs associated with our research and development efforts. These 

95

costs relate to efforts for our clinical and preclinical candidates, our product development and our discovery research efforts. These costs have not been allocated directly to each program.

The following graph provides information regarding research and development expenses: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred R&D expenses of $1,002.9, an increase of $116.9, or 13.2%, versus the $886.0 incurred during the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily related to the following:

•Increase of $142.1 in clinical development primarily driven by increased clinical expenses related to ALXN1210 for multiple ongoing studies; shared expenses related to investments in enhanced systems and processes to support our clinical trial expansion; and clinical expenses related to assets acquired from Achillion and Portola in 2020. See chart below for additional details by program.

•Increase of $66.7 in payroll and benefits primarily related to increases in headcount partially offset by decreases in travel and entertainment expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

•Increase of $34.3 in product development expenses primarily related to increased costs associated with the manufacturing of material for ALXN2070, ALXN1850 and other product development programs partially offset by a 

decrease in costs associated with the manufacturing of material for ALXN1210.

•Decrease of $103.4 in upfront payments relating to license payments made during the year ended December 31, 2019 in connection with the arrangements we entered into with Zealand Pharma A/S (Zealand), Affibody AB (Affibody), Eidos Therapeutics, Inc. (Eidos) and Stealth BioTherapeutics Corp. (Stealth). No upfront payments related to licensing arrangements were made during the year ended December 31, 2020.

•Decrease of $28.6 in discovery primarily driven by a decrease in target option exercise fees and research milestones associated with our agreement with Dicerna Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Dicerna).

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred research and development expenses of $886.0, an increase of $155.6, or 21.3%, versus the $730.4 incurred during the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily related to the following:

•Increase of $76.7 in upfront payments primarily related to the license payments made in connection with the arrangements we entered into with Zealand, Affibody, Eidos and Stealth in 2019. Upfront payments made in 2018 related to the agreement entered into with Dicerna.

•Increase of $37.1 in payroll and benefits primarily related to headcount increases.

•Increase of $34.8 in discovery mainly driven by target option exercise fees and research milestones associated with our agreement with Dicerna.

•Increase of $23.6 in direct clinical development expenses related primarily to increases in various studies (see graph on following page summarizing expenses related to our clinical development programs).

•Decrease of $18.2 in direct product development expenses related primarily to a decrease in costs associated with the manufacturing of material for ALXN1210, partially offset by an increase for material related to ALXN1830 and ALXN1840.

96

The following graph summarizes expenses related to our clinical development programs: 

202020192018

The following graph summarizes accumulated direct expenses related to our clinical development programs from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2020:

(a) From 1992 through 2006, substantially all research and development expenses were related to two products, eculizumab and pexelizumab. We obtained approval in the U.S. for eculizumab for PNH in 2007 and for aHUS in 2010, and we ceased development of pexelizumab in 2006.

(b) Unallocated costs shared across various development programs.

The successful development of our drug candidates is uncertain and subject to a number of risks. We cannot guarantee that results of clinical trials will be favorable or sufficient to support regulatory approvals for any of our product development programs. We could decide to abandon development or be required to spend considerable resources not otherwise contemplated. For additional discussion regarding the risks and uncertainties regarding our research and development programs, please refer to Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We expect our research and development expenses to increase as a percentage of sales in 2021 as compared to 2020. 

97

Selling, General and Administrative Expense

Selling General and Administrative Expense (SG&A)

●SG&A as a % of net product sales

Our selling, general and administrative expense includes commercial and administrative personnel, corporate facility and external costs required to support the marketing and sales of our commercialized products. These selling, general and administrative costs include: corporate facility operating expenses and depreciation; marketing and sales operations in support of our products; human resources; finance, legal, information technology and support personnel expenses; and other corporate costs such as telecommunications, insurance, audit, government affairs and our global corporate compliance program.

The table below provides information regarding selling, general and administrative expense:

Salary, benefits and other labor expense

External selling, general and administrative expense

During the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,399.9, an increase of $138.8, or 11.0%, versus the $1,261.1 incurred during the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily related to the following:

•Increase in salary, benefits, and other labor expenses of $102.2, primarily related to increases in headcount partially offset by decreases in travel and entertainment expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

•Increase in external selling, general and administrative expenses of $36.6, primarily related to increased costs relating to businesses acquired, marketing services, and litigation charges of $21.5 recorded during the first quarter 2020 in connection with legal proceedings, partially offset by a decrease in professional services.

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,261.1, an increase of $149.3, or 13.4%, versus the $1,111.8 incurred during the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily related to the following:

•Increase in salary, benefits and other labor expenses of $112.3. The increase was primarily related to headcount increases driven by an increase in commercial activities related to SOLIRIS for gMG and increased staff costs associated with commercial support activities including NMOSD pre-launch efforts. Employee related costs associated with our share-based compensation plans also increased.

•Increase in external selling, general and administrative expenses of $37.0. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in charitable contributions and professional services.

We expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to remain consistent as a percentage of sales in 2021 as compared to 2020.

Acquired In-Process Research and Development

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a benefit of $4.1 to acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) associated with 

98

previously acquired IPR&D related to the Syntimmune acquisition as a result of the agreement of the final working capital adjustment in the second quarter 2019.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded acquired IPR&D expense of $1,183.0 related to the Wilson Therapeutics acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2018 and the Syntimmune acquisition completed in the fourth quarter of 2018. The IPR&D assets associated with each of these acquisitions, which were the principal assets acquired in each transaction, had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use as of the acquisition date and were therefore expensed in 2018. 

Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets

Amortization expense associated with purchased intangible assets was $253.7, $309.6 and $320.1 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Amortization expense is primarily associated with intangible assets related to STRENSIQ, KANUMA and ANDEXXA.

The decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to years ended 2019 and 2018, was primarily associated with the KANUMA and STRENSIQ intangible assets, both of which are explained below. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in amortization associated with our ANDEXXA intangible asset acquired in connection with the Portola acquisition, which closed during the third quarter 2020.

During the second quarter 2020, we recorded an impairment charge of $2,042.3 to write-down the KANUMA intangible asset to fair value. The lower asset value is contributing to lower amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

During the third quarter 2019, the U.S. patent term extension to a composition of matter patent for STRENSIQ was granted, which resulted in an increase in the estimated useful life of the STRENSIQ intangible asset and is contributing to lower amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

We expect amortization for finite-lived intangible assets to decrease in future periods as compared to prior periods as a result of the KANUMA impairment charge recognized during the second quarter of 2020, offset by amortization expense associated with the ANDEXXA intangible asset.

Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration

For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the change in fair value of contingent consideration expense associated with our prior business combinations was $61.2, $11.6 and $116.5, respectively. The change in the fair value of contingent consideration will fluctuate based on the timing of recognition of changes in the probability of achieving contingent milestones, the expected timing of milestone payments in connection with previous acquisitions and the discount rates used to calculate fair value. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration primarily relate to contingent amounts due in connection with our acquisition of Enobia in 2012 and Achillion in 2020.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, changes in the fair value of contingent consideration expense reflected changes in the expected timing and probability of achieving contingent milestone payments and the interest component of contingent consideration related to changes in discount rates and the passage of time. For the year ended December 31, 2019, changes in the fair value of contingent consideration expense reflected changes in the expected timing of achieving contingent milestones and the interest component related to the passage of time.

In September 2018, we amended the terms of certain contingent milestone payments due under our 

99

prior merger agreement with Enobia Pharma Corp. (Enobia), dated December 28, 2011. The agreement removed our obligations with respect to a regulatory milestone and redistributed the contingent payment associated with this milestone to various sales milestones. As a result of this agreement and the probability of achieving the various sales milestones, our contingent consideration liability increased by $48.7 in the third quarter 2018.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, changes in the fair value of contingent consideration expense primarily reflect the impact of the agreement with Enobia to amend milestones and changes in the expected timing of payments of contingent consideration, as well as the interest component of contingent consideration related to the passage of time.

Restructuring Expenses

For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $10.3, $12.0 and $25.5, respectively, in restructuring expenses. 

The charges for the year ended December 31, 2020 relate to restructuring activities initiated in the third quarter 2020 primarily within our commercial organization as part of an initiative intended to redefine our operating model. The actions are intended to reallocate resources necessary to align our organization with our diversifying portfolio of new products and strategic objectives, and will include investments in digital capabilities, technologies and solutions to support a more virtual and digital customer experience and tailored to the markets in which we operate.

The actions are expected to be substantially completed during 2021, with the cumulative pretax costs to be incurred by the Company to implement the program estimated to be approximately $10.0. We expect that the pretax costs will primarily result in cash outlays, as the costs primarily relate to employee separation expenses.

The charges for the year ended December 31, 2019 relate to restructuring activities initiated in the 

first quarter 2019 to re-align our international commercial organization.

The charges for the year ended December 31, 2018 were mainly attributable to the relocation of our corporate headquarters from New Haven, Connecticut to Boston, Massachusetts and other related costs.

Impairment of Intangible Assets

During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded impairment charges of $2,053.3, relating to KANUMA and ACHN-4471 (ALXN2040). No impairment charges were incurred during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

During the quarter ended June 30, 2020, based on continued challenges expanding patient growth and new alternative commercial opportunities, the Company revised its strategic view of KANUMA and determined that we have exhausted commercially viable initiatives related to KANUMA and will have difficulty expanding patient growth over the long term as we focus on promoting other commercial programs and growing our pipeline. As a result, we no longer expect to increase the number of KANUMA patients in the long term at the rate previously assumed. This determination resulted in reduced cash flow projections for KANUMA, which indicated that the related intangible asset value was not fully recoverable on an undiscounted cash flows basis. On June 30, 2020, the Company utilized market participant assumptions to determine its best estimate of the fair value of the intangible asset related to KANUMA that, when compared with its related carrying value, resulted in an impairment charge of $2,042.3.

During the quarter ended June 30, 2020, we recognized an impairment charge of $11.0 to write off the cost basis of our ACHN-4471 (ALXN2040) acquired in-process research and development asset due to clinical results received during the quarter.

100

Acquisition-Related Costs

For the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded $117.6 of acquisition-related costs. Acquisition-related costs were primarily recorded in connection with the Achillion and Portola acquisitions. Acquisition-related costs consist primarily of transaction costs, costs associated with the accelerated vesting of equity awards previously granted to Achillion and Portola employees, and Achillion and Portola employee separation costs. No acquisition-related costs were incurred during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

Other Income and (Expense)

The following table provides information regarding other income and expense:

Investment Income

Interest Expense

Other Income (expense)

For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we recognized other income (expense) of 

$(3.3) and $35.9, respectively. The decrease in other income is primarily related to a gain of $32.0 resulting from an amendment to the terms of our option agreement with Caelum in the fourth quarter of 2019.

For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recognized investment income of $44.7, $100.3 and $65.3, respectively, primarily related to unrealized and realized gains and losses on our strategic equity investments recorded at fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded gains of $76.5 on our strategic equity investments, primarily driven by an unrealized gain of $45.4 from our Eidos equity investment and a realized gain of $29.7 from our Portola equity investment which was derecognized and included in the fair value of consideration transferred in connection with the Portola acquisition. Gains recorded on our strategic equity investments were partially offset by a $49.0 impairment of our Caelum investment option to reduce the carrying value of our investment in the option to its fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded unrealized gains of $26.9 on our strategic equity investments and recognized a net realized gain of $32.8 related to the sale of our Moderna Therapeutics Inc. (Moderna) equity investment. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded unrealized gains of $43.0 on our strategic equity investments, primarily related to our Moderna equity investment. 

For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $104.7, $77.8 and $98.2, respectively, in interest expense. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared with the same period in 2019 is driven by an increase in the average interest rates associated with our interest rate swaps, partially offset by lower term loan borrowings and lower interest rates, which are based on market rates, on the unhedged portion of our outstanding term loan. The decrease in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared with the same period in 2018 is driven by the derecognition of certain previously recorded build-to-suit arrangements in the first quarter 2019 due to the adoption of the new lease accounting standard.

101

Income Taxes 

Income tax (benefit) expense

●Effective Tax Rate

The income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 is attributable to the U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes on our profitable operations. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded income tax (benefit) expense of $(34.4) and an effective tax rate of (6.0)%, compared to an income tax (benefit) expense of $(225.5) and $164.6 and an effective tax rate of (10.3)% and 68.0% for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

During the second quarter 2020, we recognized an impairment charge of $2,042.3 related to the KANUMA intangible asset, resulting in a deferred tax benefit of $377.3. Refer to Note 4, Intangible Assets and Goodwill, for additional information on the impairment charge. These deferred tax benefits decreased the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2020 by approximately 19.2%.

In April 2020 we became aware of a European withholding tax regulation that could be interpreted to apply to certain of our previous intra-group transactions. We continue to evaluate whether the interpretation of this regulation applies to our facts and circumstances, and, based on our preliminary analysis, we recorded an immaterial reserve related to this matter during the second quarter of 2020.

In August 2020, we received a notice of examination from the Dutch Tax Authorities (“DTA”) regarding certain matters relating to our 2014 through 2017 tax years. We entered into an agreement with the DTA in December 2020 and have agreed to pay approximately $73.8 in connection with the settlement, inclusive of the 2018 and 2019 tax years. After taking into account the $56.1 U.S. foreign tax credit claimed on the settlement, the net cash outflow 

was $17.7, representing a 3.1% net increase to the effective tax rate.

In 2017, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) commenced an examination of our U.S. income tax returns for 2015. During the second quarter of 2020 we received a Revenue Agent Report (RAR) and held discussions with the IRS regarding a proposed adjustment related to the valuation of certain intellectual property that was contributed into our captive partnership during 2015. The Company agreed with the adjustment outlined in the RAR and recognized a previously unrecognized tax benefit in the second quarter of 2020 that did not result in a significant impact to the financial statements. The IRS concluded its examination during the third quarter 2020 without additional adjustments.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized certain one-time deferred tax benefits including $95.7 and $30.3 associated with a tax election made with respect to intellectual property of Wilson Therapeutics and a valuation allowance release and corresponding recognition of net operating losses, respectively. These deferred tax benefits are offset by income tax expense of $10.2 associated with the July 1, 2019 integration of the Wilson Therapeutics intellectual property into the Alexion corporate structure. 

A comprehensive analysis of our prior year estimate related to our foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) was completed during the third quarter 2019 based on additional guidance provided in the proposed regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury Department in 2019. The analysis resulted in income tax benefit of $17.0 related to the prior year, which was recorded as a change in estimate in income tax expense in our 2019 consolidated statements of operations, resulting in a decrease of approximately 0.8% to our effective tax rate.

During the fourth quarter 2019, we completed an intra-entity asset transfer of certain intellectual property to an Irish subsidiary within our captive foreign partnership. We recognized deferred tax benefits of $2,221.5 which represents the difference between the basis of the intellectual property for financial statement purposes and the basis of the intellectual property for tax purposes, applying the appropriate enacted statutory tax rates. We will receive future tax deductions associated with amortization of the intellectual property, and any amortization not deducted for tax purposes will be carried forward indefinitely under Irish tax law. An offsetting deferred tax expense of $1,839.3 has been recognized to reflect the reduction of future foreign tax credits associated with the foreign local tax amortization deductions. These net deferred tax benefits resulted in a decrease of approximately 17.5% to our effective tax rate.

102

The income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 includes an increase in the effective tax rate of 102.6% attributable to the acquisitions of Syntimmune and Wilson Therapeutics. Absent successful clinical results and regulatory approval, there is no alternative future use for the in-process research assets we acquired in these acquisitions. Accordingly, the value of the assets acquired of $1,183.0 were expensed as acquired in-process research and development, for which no tax benefit has been recognized. 

In December 2017, the Tax Act was enacted into law. The Tax Act decreased the U.S. federal corporate tax rate to 21.0%, imposed a minimum tax on foreign earnings and incorporated a one-time transition tax on previously unremitted foreign earnings. We recorded adjustments to our Tax Act provisional accounting during 2018, which resulted in a decrease to tax expense of $56.5. We completed our accounting for the Tax Act in the fourth quarter 2018. 

We continue to maintain a valuation allowance against certain other deferred tax assets where realization is not certain. We periodically evaluate the likelihood of realizing deferred tax assets and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized.

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The following table summarizes the components of our financial condition as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The aggregate increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $249.9 at December 31, 2020 as compared to December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to cash generated from operations and proceeds from maturity or sale of available-for-sale debt securities. Partially offsetting these increases was  $2,023.0 of cash utilized to fund the Achillion and Portola acquisitions, net of $480.9 of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities acquired in the transactions and $196.9 of cash paid to settle preexisting debt held by Portola; 

cash utilized to repurchase shares of common stock, payments on our term loan facility, purchases of property, plant, and equipment and strategic equity investments and options.

Excluding the impact of any significant future asset acquisitions, licenses or collaboration agreements, we expect our annual operating expenses to decrease as a percentage of sales in 2021 as compared to 2020, primarily due to the impairments of intangible assets of $2,053.3 recorded during the second quarter 2020. We expect increased capital investment in 2021 as compared to 2020. We anticipate that cash generated from operations and our existing available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities should provide us adequate resources to fund our operations as currently planned for at least the next twelve months.

Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, we are subject to a variety of specified restrictions under the Merger Agreement. Unless we obtain AstraZeneca’s prior written consent (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) and except (i) as required or expressly contemplated by the Merger Agreement, (ii) as required by applicable law or (iii) as set forth in the confidential disclosure schedule delivered by Alexion to AstraZeneca, we may not, among other things and subject to certain exceptions and aggregate limitations, incur additional indebtedness, issue additional shares of our common stock outside of our equity incentive plans, repurchase our common stock, pay dividends, acquire assets, securities or property, dispose of businesses or assets, enter into material contracts or make certain additional capital expenditures.

We have financed our operations and capital expenditures primarily through positive cash flows from operations. We expect to continue to be able to fund our operations, including principal and interest payments on our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, royalty-based debt and contingent payments associated with our in-licenses and acquisitions principally through our cash flows from operations. We may, from time to time, also seek additional funding through a combination of equity or debt financings or from other sources, if necessary for future acquisitions or other strategic purposes. New sources of financing through equity and/or debt financing(s), especially in light of increased volatility within the global financial markets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, may not always be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and we may be required to obtain certain consents in connection with completing such financings.

103

Financial Instruments

Until required for use in the business, we may invest our cash reserves in money market funds, bank deposits, and high quality marketable debt securities in accordance with our investment policy. The stated objectives of our investment policy are to preserve capital, provide liquidity consistent with forecasted cash flow requirements, maintain appropriate diversification and generate returns relative to these investment objectives and prevailing market conditions.

Financial instruments that potentially expose us to concentrations of credit risk are cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and our derivative contracts. As of December 31, 2020, four customers accounted for 66.8% of the accounts receivable balance, with these individual customers accounting for 11.7% to 22.1% of the accounts receivable balance. As of December 31, 2019, four customers accounted for 66.9% of the accounts receivable balance, with these individual customers accounting for 11.6% to 20.3% of the accounts receivable balance.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, three customers accounted for 47.4% of our net product sales with these individual customers accounting for 14.7% to 16.7% of our net product sales. For the year ended December 31, 2019, four customers accounted for 56.4% of our net product sales with these individual customers accounting for 10.0% to 16.8% of our net product sales. For the year ended December 31, 2018, four customers accounted for 50.3% of our net product sales with these individual customers accounting for 10.0% to 16.4% of our net product sales. 

We continue to monitor economic conditions, including volatility associated with international economies and the COVID-19 pandemic, and the associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. Substantially all of our accounts receivable are due from wholesale distributors, public hospitals and other government entities. We monitor the financial performance of our customers so that we can appropriately respond to changes in their credit worthiness. We operate in certain jurisdictions where weakness in economic conditions can result in extended collection periods. We continue to monitor these conditions and assess their possible impact on our business. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced an increase in requests for extended payment terms with certain customers. To date, we have not experienced any significant losses with respect to collection of our accounts receivable and do not currently anticipate any material credit losses on our accounts receivable as a result of the pandemic.

We manage our foreign currency transaction risk and interest rate risk within specified guidelines through the use of derivatives. All of our derivative instruments are utilized for risk management purposes, and we do not use derivatives for speculative trading purposes. As of December 31, 2020, we had foreign exchange forward contracts with notional amounts totaling $3,253.5. These outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts had a net fair value liability of $55.2, of which $26.1 is included in other current assets and $81.3 is included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities. As of December 31, 2020, we had interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts totaling $1,750.0. These outstanding interest rate swap contracts had a net fair value liability of $91.3, which is included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities. The counterparties to these contracts are large domestic and multinational commercial banks, and we believe the risk of nonperformance is not material.

As of December 31, 2020, our financial assets and liabilities were recorded at fair value. We have classified our financial assets and liabilities as Level 1, 2 or 3 within the fair value hierarchy. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Our Level 1 assets consist of mutual fund investments and equity securities. Level 2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, but substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Our Level 2 assets consist primarily of money market funds, equity securities subject to holding period restrictions and derivative contracts. Our Level 2 liabilities consist also of derivative contracts. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs based on our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value. Our Level 3 liabilities consist of contingent consideration related to business acquisitions.

Business Combinations and Contingent Consideration Obligations

On January 28, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Achillion. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired all outstanding common stock of Achillion for $6.30 per share, or an aggregate of $926.2, inclusive of the settlement of Achillion's outstanding equity awards. The acquisition was funded with cash on hand. The transaction includes the potential for additional consideration in the form of non-tradeable contingent value rights, which will be paid to Achillion shareholders if certain clinical and regulatory milestones are achieved within specified periods. These include $1.00 per share for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of 

104

danicopan and $1.00 per share for the initiation of a Phase III clinical trial in ACH-5228 (ALXN2050).

On July 2, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Portola. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired all outstanding common stock of Portola for $18.00 per share, or an aggregate of approximately $1,380.8, including the settlement of certain of Portola's outstanding equity awards but excluding shares of Portola stock held by Alexion at closing. The acquisition was funded with cash on hand. In connection with the acquisition, we also paid $196.9 to settle certain debt held by Portola that was subject to preexisting change of control provisions. The repayment of Portola's debt was funded with cash acquired from Portola. Additionally, we assumed royalty-based debt which requires repayment through tiered royalties on future net worldwide sales of ANDEXXA.

As of December 31, 2020, the purchase agreements for our business combinations, including Achillion, include contingent payments totaling up to $905.6 that will become payable if and when certain development and commercial milestones are achieved. Of these milestone amounts, $670.6 of the contingent payments relate to development and regulatory milestones and $235.0 of the contingent payments relate to commercial milestones, respectively. We do not expect these amounts to have a significant impact on our liquidity in the near-term. During the next 12 months, we expect to make milestone payments of $120.0 associated with our prior business combinations. As additional future payments become probable, we will evaluate methods of funding payments, which could be made from available cash and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, or proceeds from the sale of equity securities or debt.

Asset Acquisitions and In-License Agreements

In January 2019, we entered into an agreement with Caelum, a biotechnology company that is developing CAEL101 for AL amyloidosis. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired a minority equity interest in preferred stock of Caelum and an exclusive option to acquire the remaining equity in Caelum based on Phase II data, for pre-negotiated economics. We paid $30.0 in the first quarter 2019 and agreed to pay up to an additional $30.0 in contingent development milestones prior to exercising the option to acquire the remaining equity in Caelum. Following discussions with the FDA, Caelum changed its clinical development plan for CAEL-101 in the fourth quarter 2019. In December 2019, we amended the terms of the agreement with Caelum to modify the option to acquire the remaining equity in Caelum based on data from the modified Phase II/III trials. The amendment also modified the development-related milestone events associated with the initial 

$30.0 in contingent payments, provided for an additional $20.0 in upfront funding, as well as funding of $60.0 in exchange for an additional equity interest at fair value upon achievement of a specific development-related milestone event. We paid the additional $20.0 in upfront funding and the initial $30.0 in contingent payments in 2020. The agreement with Caelum also provides for additional payments, in the event Alexion exercises the purchase option, for up to $500.0, which includes an upfront option exercise payment and potential regulatory and commercial milestone payments.

In March 2019, we entered into an agreement with Zealand which provides us with exclusive worldwide licenses, as well as development and commercial rights, for subcutaneously delivered preclinical peptide therapies directed at up to four complement pathway targets. Pursuant to the agreement, Zealand will lead joint discovery and research efforts through the preclinical stage, and Alexion will lead development efforts beginning with the investigational new drug filing and Phase I studies. In addition to the agreement, we made an equity investment in Zealand (refer to Note 7, Other Investments). Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of $40.0 for an exclusive license to the lead target and the equity investment, as well as for preclinical research services to be performed by Zealand in relation to the lead target. As of December 31, 2020, we could be required to pay up to $610.0, for the lead target, upon the achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as royalties on commercial sales. In addition, we could be required to pay up to an additional $115.0 in development and regulatory milestones if both a long-acting and short-acting product are developed with respect to the lead target. Each of the three subsequent targets can be selected for an option fee of $15.0 and has the potential for additional development, regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as royalty payments, at a reduced price to the lead target.

In September 2019, we entered into an agreement with Eidos through which Alexion obtained an exclusive license to develop and commercialize AG10 in Japan. AG10 is a small molecule designed to treat the root cause of transthyretin amyloidosis (ATTR) and is currently in a Phase III study in the U.S., Europe, and Japan for ATTR cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM). In addition, we made an equity investment in Eidos (refer to Note 7, Other Investments). Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of $50.0 for the exclusive license to AG10 in Japan and the equity investment. As of December 31, 2020, we could also be required to pay $30.0 upon achievement of a Japanese-based regulatory milestone as well as royalties on commercial sales.

105

In October 2018, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Dicerna that provides us with exclusive worldwide licenses and development and commercial rights for two preclinical RNA interference (RNAi) subcutaneously delivered molecules for complement-mediated diseases, as well as an exclusive option for other preclinical RNAi molecules for two additional targets within the complement pathway. In addition to the collaboration agreement, we made an equity investment in Dicerna. Under the terms of the agreements, we made an upfront payment of $37.0 for the exclusive licenses and the equity investment. In December 2019, we exercised our option for exclusive rights to two additional targets within the complement pathway under an existing agreement with Dicerna, which expands our existing research collaboration and license agreement with Dicerna to include a total of four targets within the complement pathway. In connection with the option exercise, we paid Dicerna $20.0 in the fourth quarter 2019. As of December 31, 2020, excluding accrued milestones, we could be required to pay up to $604.1 for amounts due upon the achievement of specified research, development, regulatory and commercial milestones on the four licensed targets, as well as royalties on commercial sales.

In December 2017, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Halozyme Therapeutics, Inc. that allows us to use drug-delivery technology in the development of subcutaneous formulations for our portfolio of products for up to four targets. Under the terms of the agreement, we made an upfront payment of $40.0 for an exclusive license to two of the four potential targets during the fourth quarter 2017. During the second quarter 2020, we forfeited our rights to one of the two targets we initially licensed. As of December 31, 2020, we could be required to pay up to $155.0 for the remaining licensed target upon achievement of specified development, regulatory and sales-based milestones, as well as royalties on commercial sales. Each of the two subsequent targets can be licensed for an option fee of $8.0, with contingent payments of up to $160.0 per target, subject to development, regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as royalties on commercial sales.

In connection with our prior acquisition of Syntimmune, Inc., a clinical-stage biotechnology company developing an antibody therapy targeting the FcRn, we could be required to pay up to $800.0 upon the achievement of specified development, regulatory and commercial milestones, of which $130.0 is specific to the subcutaneous formulation. We are currently subject to a claim in litigation in connection with the Syntimmune acquisition alleging that Alexion failed to meet its obligations under the merger agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve the milestones and plaintiff has requested 

payment of the full earn-out amount. The outcome on this litigation may have an impact on the results of our operations in the future.

In addition, excluding accrued milestones, as of December 31, 2020, we have other license agreements under which we may be required to pay up to an additional $114.0 for currently licensed targets, if certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones are met, including up to $71.5 for the development of cerdulatinib in multiple indications pursuant to an in-licensing agreement with Astellas Pharma, Inc. which was assumed through the acquisition of Portola in the third quarter 2020. Additional amounts may be payable if we elect to acquire licenses to additional targets, as applicable, under the terms of these agreements.

We do not expect the payments associated with milestones under our asset acquisitions, option and in-license agreements to have a significant impact on our liquidity in the near-term. During the next 12 months, we may make milestone payments related to these arrangements of approximately $71.1, excluding milestones which were accrued as of December 31, 2020.

As additional future payments become probable, we will evaluate methods of funding payments, which could be made from available cash and marketable securities, cash generated from operations or proceeds from the sale of equity securities or debt.

Operating and Financing Lease Liabilities

Operating and financing lease liabilities are recorded at lease commencement and upon remeasurement events, if applicable, based on the present value of fixed, or in substance fixed, lease payments over the expected lease term. Lease liabilities are amortized over the lease term. 

As of December 31, 2020, we have $278.1 of total financing and operating lease liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. The total undiscounted lease commitments as of December 31, 2020 was $329.3, of which $43.4 is payable during the next 12 months. Refer to Note 10, Leases for a summary of the maturity of our lease liabilities by year. We do not expect the payments associated with the maturity of lease liabilities to have a significant impact on our liquidity in the near-term.

Long-term Debt

On June 7, 2018, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Bank of America N.A. as Administrative Agent. The Credit Agreement amended and restated our credit agreement dated as of June 22, 2015. 

The Credit Agreement provides for a $1,000.0 revolving credit facility and a $2,612.5 term loan 

106

facility. The revolving credit facility and the term loan facility mature on June 7, 2023. Beginning with the quarter ending June 30, 2019, we are required to make payments of 5.0% of the original principal amount of the term loan facility annually, payable in equal quarterly installments. 

As of December 31, 2020, we had $2,383.9 outstanding on the term loan. We had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, we had open letters of credit of $1.0 that offset our borrowing availability on the revolving credit facility.

In connection with our acquisition of Portola during the third quarter 2020, we assumed royalty-based debt relating to a royalty sales agreement Portola had entered into with HealthCare Royalty Partners (HCR) whereby HCR acquired a tiered royalty interest in future worldwide net sales of ANDEXXA. Portola received $50.0 upon closing of the agreement in February 2017 and an additional $100.0 following the U.S. regulatory approval of ANDEXXA in May 2018. Tiered royalties ranging from 4.2% to 8.5% are required to be paid to HCR based on net worldwide sales of ANDEXXA. The applicable rate decreases as worldwide net annual sales levels increase above defined thresholds. Total potential royalty payments are capped at 195.0% of the funding received less certain transaction expenses, or $290.6.

As of December 31, 2020, the royalty-based debt has a carrying value of $187.0, net of unamortized debt discount of $84.9, of which $15.5 was recorded within current portion of long-term debt. The maximum remaining royalty payments are capped at $271.9, as of December 31, 2020.

Manufacturing Obligations

We have supply agreements with Lonza relating to the manufacture of SOLIRIS, STRENSIQ, ULTOMIRIS and ANDEXXA which require payments to Lonza at the inception of contract and upon the initiation and completion of product manufactured. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our plans for future levels of manufacturing by Lonza, which depends upon our commercial requirements and the progress of our clinical development programs.

We have various agreements with Lonza, with remaining total non-cancellable commitments of 

approximately $1,137.8 through 2030. Certain commitments may be canceled only in limited circumstances. If we terminate certain supply agreements with Lonza without cause, we will be required to pay for product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangement. Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we pay Lonza a royalty on the sales of SOLIRIS and ULTOMIRIS manufactured at Lonza facilities.

In addition to Lonza, we have non-cancellable commitments of approximately $175.6 through 2023 with other third party manufacturers.

Taxes

We have recorded tax on the undistributed earnings of our controlled foreign corporation (CFC) subsidiaries. To the extent CFC earnings may not be repatriated to the U.S. as a dividend distribution due to limitations imposed by law, we have not recorded the related potential withholding, foreign local, and U.S. state income taxes.

Common Stock Repurchase Program

In November 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program. In February 2017, our Board of Directors increased the amount that we are authorized to expend on future repurchases to $1,000.0 under our repurchase program, which superseded all prior repurchase programs. The entire amount authorized pursuant to this February 2017 Board approval has been utilized. On October 22, 2019, the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase authorization of up to $1,000.0. On July 28, 2020, the Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase authorization of up to an additional $1,500.0. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to acquire a particular number of shares. The repurchase program may be discontinued at any time at our discretion. Under the program, we repurchased 4.9 and 3.8 shares of our common stock at a cost of $510.8 and $416.0 during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, there is a total of $2,024.7 remaining for repurchases under the repurchase programs.

107

Cash Flows

 The following summarizes our net change in cash and cash equivalents:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Cash flows provided by operations in 2020 was $3,002.9 compared to $2,084.9 in 2019. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to cash generated from operations, including the timing of cash receipts, payments and other changes in working capital during 2020 as compared to 2019. Additionally, the prior year included upfront payments made in connection with agreements entered into with Zealand, Affibody, Eidos and Stealth BioTherapeutics Corp. and a payment of a sales-based milestone to the former equity holders of Enobia Pharma Corp.

Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities in 2020 was $2,099.5 compared to cash provided by investing activities of $9.7 in 2019. The increase in cash used in investing activities as compared to the prior year was primarily due to payments for the acquisition of Achillion and Portola, net of cash acquired, of $2,111.9. Partially offsetting these impacts were decreases in purchases of property, plant and equipment and purchases of strategic equity investments and options during 2020 as compared to 2019.

Financing Activities

Cash flows used in financing activities in 2020 was $611.9 compared to $739.1 in 2019. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to a decrease in payments on our revolving credit facility, partially offset by an increase of $94.8 in common stock repurchases and an increase of $32.6 in payments on our term loan during 2020, as compared to 2019.

108

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020 and the effect such obligations and commercial commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future fiscal years. These do not include potential milestone payments and assume non-termination of agreements. 

These obligations, commitments and supporting arrangements represent payments based on current operating forecasts as of December 31, 2020, which are subject to change:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Except for our royalty-based debt, the contractual obligations table above does not include contingent royalties and other contingent contractual payments we may owe to third parties in the future because such payments are contingent on future sales of our products and the existence and scope of third party intellectual property rights and other factors described in Item 1A, Risk Factors and Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to various federal, state and foreign income tax matters of $163.4 as of December 31, 2020 was not included within the table above. The timing of the settlement of these amounts was not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2020. 

Contingent payments related to business acquisitions, asset acquisitions, option or in-license agreements are not included within the table above, as the satisfaction of the contingent consideration obligations and if satisfied, the timing of payment for these amounts is uncertain as of December 31, 2020. Contingent payments associated with prior business combinations total up to $905.6, which will 

become payable if and when certain development and commercial milestones are achieved. During the next 12 months, we expect to make milestone payments of $120.0 associated with our prior business combinations. Commitments related to asset acquisitions, option and in-license agreements include contingent payments that will become payable if and when certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones are achieved. During the next 12 months, we may make milestone payments related to our asset acquisitions, option and in-license agreements of approximately $71.1, excluding milestones accrued as of December 31, 2020.

Future obligations related to our defined benefit plans are not included within the table above, as the timing and amounts of these payments was not reasonably estimable as of December 31, 2020. The total unfunded obligation on our defined benefit plans as of December 31, 2020 was $33.6. Our unfunded obligation can be impacted by changes in the laws and regulations, interest rates, investment returns, and other variables.

Credit Facilities

On June 7, 2018, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Credit 

109

Agreement), with Bank of America N.A. as administrative agent. The Credit Agreement amends and restates our agreement dated as of June 22, 2015. 

The Credit Agreement provides for a $1,000.0 revolving credit facility and a $2,612.5 term loan facility. The revolving credit facility and term loan facility mature on June 7, 2023. Beginning with the quarter ending June 30, 2019, we are required to make amortization payments of 5.0% of the aggregate original principal amount of the term loan facility annually, payable in equal quarterly installments.

Loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at our option, at either the base rate or a Eurodollar rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. Under the Credit Agreement, the applicable margins on base rate loans range from 0.25% to 1.00% and the applicable margins on Eurodollar loans range from 1.25% to 2.00% in each case based on our consolidated net leverage ratio (as calculated in accordance with the Credit Agreement). Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by certain of our foreign and domestic subsidiaries and secured by liens on certain of our subsidiaries’ equity interests, subject to certain exceptions. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, we must maintain a ratio of total net debt to EBITDA of 3.50 to 1.00 (subject to certain limited adjustments) and EBITDA to cash interest expense ratio of at least 3.50 to 1.00, in each case as calculated in accordance with the Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2020. 

The Credit Agreement contains certain representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. The negative covenants in the Credit Agreement restrict Alexion’s and its subsidiaries’ ability, subject to certain baskets and exceptions, to (among other things) incur liens or indebtedness, make investments, enter into mergers and other fundamental changes, make dispositions or pay dividends. The restriction on dividend payments includes an exception that permits us to pay dividends and make other restricted payments regardless of dollar amount so long as, after giving pro forma effect thereto, we have consolidated net leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, within predefined ranges, subject to certain increases following designated material acquisitions.

Royalty-Based Debt

In connection with our acquisition of Portola during the third quarter 2020, we assumed royalty-based debt relating to a royalty sales agreement Portola had entered into with HealthCare Royalty Partners (HCR) whereby HCR acquired a tiered royalty 

interest in future worldwide net sales of ANDEXXA. Portola received $50.0 upon closing of the agreement in February 2017 and an additional $100.0 following the U.S. regulatory approval of ANDEXXA in May 2018. Tiered royalties ranging from 4.2% to 8.5% are required to be paid to HCR based on net worldwide sales of ANDEXXA. The applicable rate decreases as worldwide net annual sales levels increase above defined thresholds. Total potential royalty payments are capped at 195.0% of the funding received less certain transaction expenses, or $290.6.

Interest expense is recognized using the effective interest rate method over the estimated period the related debt will be paid. This requires estimation of the timing and amount of future royalty payments to be generated from future sales of ANDEXXA. We reassess the expected royalty payments each reporting period and account for any changes through an adjustment to the effective interest rate on a prospective basis. The assumptions used in determining the expected repayment term of the debt require that we make estimates that could impact the short and long term classification of the debt carrying values.

Operating and Financing Leases

Our operating and financing leases are principally for facilities and equipment. We currently lease office space in the U.S. and foreign countries to support our operations as a global organization.

We believe that our administrative office space is adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. We also believe that our research and development facilities and our manufacturing facilities, together with third party manufacturing facilities, will be adequate for our on-going activities. 

In addition to the minimum rental commitments on our operating leases we may also be required to pay amounts for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses.

Commercial Commitments

Our commercial commitments consist of research and development, license, operational, clinical development, and manufacturing cost commitments, along with anticipated supporting arrangements, subject to certain limitations and cancellation clauses. The timing and level of our commercial scale manufacturing costs, which may or may not be realized, are contingent upon the progress of our clinical development programs and our commercialization plans. Our commercial commitments are represented principally by our supply agreements with Lonza described above. Our commitments with Lonza do not include amounts for estimated consumer price index, or CPI, adjustments which we are obligated to pay to Lonza.

110

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.