ITEM 1 – BUSINESS

Overview

We are an omnichannel retailer that makes it easy for our customers to feel at home. We sell a wide assortment of merchandise in the Home, Baby, Beauty & Wellness markets and operate under the names Bed Bath & Beyond ("BBB"), buybuy BABY ("BABY"), and Harmon, Harmon Face Values, or Face Values (collectively, "Harmon"). We also operate Decorist ("Decorist"), an online interior design platform that provides personalized home design services. 

We offer a broad assortment of national brands and a growing line of proprietary owned brand merchandise in key destination categories including bedding, bath, kitchen food prep, home organization, indoor décor, baby and personal care. 

We operate a robust omnichannel platform consisting of various websites and applications and physical retail stores. Our e-commerce platforms include bedbathandbeyond.com, bedbathandbeyond.ca, harmondiscount.com, facevalues.com, buybuybaby.com, buybuybaby.ca and decorist.com. We also operate 1,020 retail stores, as of February 27, 2021, consisting of 834 BBB stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada, 132 BABY stores in 37 states and Canada and 54 Harmon stores in five states. During fiscal 2020, we opened nine new stores and closed 144 stores. As of February 27, 2021, our total store square footage, net of openings and closings, was approximately 29.9 million square feet. In addition to our U.S. and Canadian operations, we are a partner in a joint venture that operates ten stores in Mexico under the name Bed Bath & Beyond. 

Starting in late 2019, we have created a more focused portfolio through the divestiture of non-core assets, including businesses and real estate, as part of the ongoing business transformation underway. See “Transformation,” “Strategy” and “Divestitures” below. 

Our merchandise and services are offered to customers through an omnichannel platform across our portfolio of banners, which consist of:

Bed Bath & Beyond - a leading specialty home retailer in North America that sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings. BBB is a preferred destination in the home space, particularly in key product categories including bedding, bath, kitchen food prep, home organization and indoor decor. 

buybuy BABY - a leading specialty baby retailer in North America that sells a wide assortment of baby essentials and nursery furnishings. BABY strives to build trust with parents by supporting them with what they need so families can celebrate every milestone – big and small – together.

Harmon Health and Beauty - offers an expansive assortment of leading name brand and private label personal care and beauty brands at deep everyday value. 

Decorist - an online interior design company that makes decorating a home easy and affordable. Executed entirely online, Decorist's roster of over 400 professional interior designers help beautifully design any room in the home, staying within a client's style and budget. For customers not ready to start a full design project, they can consult Decorist's Design Bar to have quick design questions answered by Decorist's team of interior designers, completely free of charge. 

4
We allow our customers to purchase products either in-store, online (through The Beyond Store, our proprietary, web-based platform), with a mobile device or through a customer contact center, and we offer customers the option to pick up in-store or curbside, or to have products shipped directly from our distribution facilities, stores or vendors. We believe this integration of physical store and digital channels allows us to provide our customers with a seamless omnichannel shopping experience. Store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store’s inventory or may also be shipped to a customer from one of our distribution facilities, from a vendor or from another store. Other purchases, including web and mobile orders, can be shipped to a customer from our distribution facilities, directly from vendors or from a store. Customers can also choose to pick up orders using our newly introduced Buy Online Pick Up In Store ("BOPIS"), contactless Curbside Pickup and Same Day Delivery services, as well as return online purchases by mail or to a store. As of February 27, 2021, we had distribution facilities totaling approximately 3.4 million square feet. These capabilities allow us to better serve customers across our omnichannel network.

For fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, we accounted for our operations as two operating segments: North American Retail and Institutional Sales, the latter of which did not meet the quantitative thresholds under GAAP and, therefore, was not a reportable segment. The Institutional Sales operating segment, comprised of Linen Holdings, was divested in October 2020. We will continue to account for our operations as one North American Retail reporting segment going forward. Net sales outside of the U.S. were not material for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018. 

Transformation

Starting in late 2019, we have undertaken significant changes to transform our business and adapt to the dynamic retail environment and the evolving needs of our customers in order to position ourselves for long-term success. As part of these changes, our new management team, led by President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Mark Tritton who was appointed in November 2019, has been focused on driving an omni-always, customer-inspired strategy to re-establish our authority in the Home, Baby, Beauty & Wellness markets. We have created a more focused portfolio through the divestiture of non-core assets and further strengthened our financial flexibility through key actions such as corporate restructurings and operating expense control to re-set our cost structure and support our ongoing business transformation. 

We are implementing a compelling growth strategy that will harness the power of data and insights to engage customers across our four core banners (BBB, BABY, Harmon and Decorist) in an enterprise-wide plan to accelerate our omnichannel transformation. Our strategy is underpinned by five key pillars of strategic focus and investment including product, price, promise, place and people. Through this approach, we are becoming a digital-first, customer-focused omnichannel retailer with a more curated, inspirational and differentiated product collection across categories, and creating a more convenient and inspirational shopping experience. 

During 2020, as the world responded to the unparalleled challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, we took thoughtful steps to safeguard our people and communities while we continued to serve our customers and drive transformative change throughout the organization. Similar to many other businesses, COVID-19 served as a catalyst to accelerate the pace of change and innovation at our Company— to advance our ongoing efforts to reset our cost structure and build a modern, durable model for long-term profitable growth. 

Highlights of our progress in fiscal 2020 include:

•Appointing an entirely new executive leadership team, including CEO Mark Tritton in November 2019, charged with streamlining decision-making, further strengthening the organization with leadership and talent and accelerating the pace of transformation. 

•Establishing new services in our omni-always platform that make it easier and more convenient for customers to shop with us including BOPIS, contactless Curbside Pickup and Same Day Delivery. 

•Launching 100+ customer-inspired improvements to the Bed Bath & Beyond website to elevate the customer experience, create ease and convenience and convert and acquire new customers. These improvements include making the website faster and more compelling to shop, simplifying the search process and reducing the number of steps in the checkout process.

•Strengthening our inventory management capabilities and moving to a centralized ordering and replenishment system to improve in-stock levels, create greater operational efficiencies and support higher sales.

•Realigning the organizational structure, including optimization of corporate overhead expense and reductions in other discretionary expense, to further re-set our cost base and simplify our operations to support investment in our strategic growth plans and provide additional financial flexibility.

5
•Optimizing our store network through the closure of approximately 200 mostly Bed Bath & Beyond stores over the next two years, 144 of which were closed as of February 27, 2021. We plan to continue to actively manage our real estate portfolio to permit store sizes, layouts, locations and offerings to evolve over time to optimize market profitability and to renovate or reposition stores within markets as appropriate. Over the past several years, the pace of our store openings has slowed, while the pace of store closings has increased. During fiscal 2019, we conducted a lease renegotiation project and started a store fleet optimization project for all BBB stores with the goal of creating a better balance between our physical and digital presence within the markets we serve. We continue to analyze our stores' performance, profitability, geographic location and customer demographics to understand how best to position our store locations in various markets across the U.S. and Canada. 

•Streamlining our portfolio with the divestiture of five non-core banners to create more focus on the remaining core businesses in Home, Baby, Beauty & Wellness. The non-core assets divested in 2020 include One Kings Lane, PersonalizationMall.com, Christmas Tree Shops, Cost Plus World Market and our institutional business comprised of Linen Holdings.

We will continue to build on this strong foundation as we execute our three-year growth strategy to further elevate the shopping experience, modernize our operations, and unlock strong and sustainable shareholder value.

Strategy

We have embraced a digital-first, omni-always growth strategy that supports our purpose to make it easy to feel at home and our mission to re-establish our authority and be the preferred omni-channel home destination driven by teams consistently delivering balanced durable growth. The framework of our strategy is based on the principles of being customer inspired, omni-always, people powered and performance driven. The business initiatives intended to drive our growth are rooted in the following five pillars:

1.Product: We are refining and amplifying an exciting omnichannel assortment that rebuilds authority and preference for Bed Bath & Beyond and creates energy through differentiation and curation.

2.Price: We are investing in and clarifying compelling value through more choice with opening price points, relevant owned brands and clear price communications in order to sharpen our value for quality proposition and to both acquire and win back customers.

3.Place: We are accelerating and optimizing connecting with, inspiring and energizing our customers by becoming a truly omni-always retailer to serve their preferred shopping needs.

4.Promise: We are clarifying and deepening our relationship with our customers by connecting, engaging and motivating them to strengthen loyalty and lifetime value.

5.People: We are creating and sustaining a talent engine and culture that attracts, retains and develops high-performing teams who consistently deliver operational excellence and business results.

With these five pillars as our guide, we are embracing a commitment to reconstruct and modernize our operating model to drive efficiency and effectiveness, charting a new course for our Company.

•Product. We are pursuing three key initiatives across our product strategy: developing an inspirational and more productive assortment, working closing with suppliers to reduce product cost and improving inventory management. We are rebuilding our authority in destination categories such as bedding, bath, kitchen food prep and home organization, which will feature the launch of more than 10 new proprietary owned brands over the next few years that will address a wide variety of customer needs, including value, style and destination categories. At the same time, we will be elevating the customer experience both in-store and online to be more inspirational, focusing on destination rooms and making it easier to navigate and more convenient to shop. As we build out our new assortment, we expect to leverage our scale and volume to re-negotiate significantly lower sourcing costs from our suppliers. In addition, we are strengthening our inventory management capabilities by moving to a centralized ordering and replenishment system expected to optimize inventory by channel and store, improve markdown management and drive overall productivity. 

•Price. Our data-driven pricing strategy includes four key elements: ensuring our products are competitively priced, having a more value-driven assortment across a variety of price points, building more disciplined processes to drive effective and efficient promotions, and strengthening the way we communicate value to our customers. We regularly monitor price levels at our competitors in order to ensure that our prices are in accordance with our pricing philosophy. We will also continue to improve price competitiveness across key categories while also addressing assortment gaps in value tiers, to help us compete better with mass retailers and attract new customers to our business. We will use data-

6
driven insights to build discipline into the use of promotions, to increase return on investment and reduce ineffective promotional activity. 

•Place. Our growth strategy leads with digital across channels and leverages our stores to our competitive advantage to drive a seamless customer experience. We are enhancing our digital experience through improved storytelling, making our websites and mobile site speeds faster, and making it easier for customers to find what they need and place an order more quickly. To create a more seamless experience across channels, we have also launched new omni-channel services such as BOPIS, contactless Curbside pickup and Same Day Delivery. We have expanded our ship from store capabilities, leveraging our national footprint and local market proximity to demand, and we are enhancing our store experience through data-driven store remodels and improving the productivity of our stores through a network optimization program. 

•Promise. With a large customer base of approximately 37 million, one in five homes in the U.S., is a Bed Bath & Beyond home. The addition of 11 million new digital customers during 2020 highlights our strong potential to attract, retain and drive spend within the Home, Baby, Beauty & Wellness markets. As part of our strategic growth plans, we are launching a new customer value proposition to deepen connections with five core customer segments. In addition, we are developing an enterprise-wide strategy to unlock value across our core brands, including plans for a reinvented loyalty program to deepen customer relationships and motivate increased shopping across categories, channels and banners.

•People. Since the appointment of our President and CEO, Mark Tritton, we have recruited highly energetic, experienced and innovative leaders to work together, lead innovation and modernization, drive growth and accelerate the pace of change across our business. We are committed to creating and sustaining a talent engine and culture that attracts, retains and develops high performing team members who consistently deliver operational excellence and business results. As we consider how best to position associates to support our business and drive efficiency and effectiveness, we are guided by four principles: to be customer inspired, omni-always, people-powered and performance-driven.  

Divestitures

During fiscal 2020, we divested of five non-core banners, including One Kings Lane in the first quarter, PersonalizationMall.com in the second quarter, Linen Holdings and Christmas Tree Shops in the third quarter and Cost Plus World Market in the fourth quarter, generating approximately $534 million in net proceeds, which are expected to be used to reinvest in our core business operations to drive growth, fund share repurchases, reduce our outstanding debt, or some combination of these. See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for detailed information relating to these divestitures.

Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic

As discussed in more detail throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has materially disrupted our operations to date. In compliance with relevant government directives, we closed all of our retail banner stores across the U.S. and Canada as of March 23, 2020, except for most stand-alone BABY and Harmon stores, which were categorized as essential given the nature of their products. In May 2020, we announced a phased approach to re-open our stores in compliance with relevant government directives, and as of the end of July 2020, nearly all of our stores reopened. We cannot predict, however, whether reopened stores will remain open, particularly as the regions in which we operate are experiencing a resurgence of reported new cases of COVID-19 and hospitalizations. In response to the health risks caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we expanded our recently rolled out BOPIS, contactless Curbside Pickup and Same Day Delivery services to cover the vast majority of our stores. 

In conjunction with the temporary store closures, we implemented additional cost reductions, including a furlough of the majority of store associates and a portion of corporate associates. We provided impacted store associates with applicable pay and benefits through April 3, 2020, and impacted corporate associates with pay and benefits through April 18, 2020. In addition, we had continued to pay 100% of the cost of healthcare premiums for all associates who participated in our health plan. Nearly all of the associates who were subject to furlough returned to work as of the third quarter of fiscal 2020. We also implemented a temporary reduction in salaries of our executive team by 30% through May 16, 2020, and a temporary reduction in the quarterly cash compensation of the independent members of the Board of Directors by 30% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020. We also modified our fiscal 2020 capital investment plan, focusing on our core business and key projects that support our digital and omni fulfillment capabilities, including the introduction of BOPIS and contactless Curbside Pickup services, omni inventory management, and digital marketing and personalization. 

7
Competition

We operate in a highly competitive business environment and compete with other national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, mass merchandise stores and online only retailers. We believe that the key to competing in our industry is to provide best-in-class customer service and customer experiences in stores and online, which includes providing compelling price and value; high-quality and differentiated products, services and solutions; convenience; technology; personalization; and appealing and experiential store environments. 

Suppliers

We purchase substantially all of our merchandise in the United States, the majority from domestic sources (who may manufacture overseas) and the balance from importers. We purchase a small amount of our merchandise directly from overseas sources. In fiscal 2020, we purchased our merchandise from approximately 7,800 suppliers with our largest supplier accounting for approximately 7% of our merchandise purchases and the ten largest suppliers accounting for approximately 24% of such purchases. We have no long-term contracts for the purchases of merchandise. We believe that most merchandise, other than brand name goods, is available from a variety of sources and that most brand name goods can be replaced with comparable merchandise. 

We are in the early stages of expanding our direct importing and direct sourcing capabilities. We believe that our expanding global sourcing capabilities will allow for a higher penetration of sourced and developed proprietary owned brands in our merchandise assortment.

Distribution

A substantial portion of our merchandise is shipped to stores through a combination of third-party facilities, including cross dock locations, or through our operated distribution facilities that are located throughout the United States. The remaining merchandise is shipped directly from vendors. Merchandise is shipped directly to customers from one of our distribution facilities, stores or from vendors. The majority of our shipments are made by contract carriers depending upon location. See "Item 2 – Properties" for additional information regarding the Company’s distribution facilities.

Marketing

We employ a digital-first, omni-channel approach to marketing that is strategically designed to deliver maximum consumer engagement. The customer-inspired marketing mix includes a comprehensive range of touchpoints, including social, search, mobile SMS, email, digital video, display, content and influencer marketing, online affiliate programs and public relations, as well as traditional broadcast and print media, circulars, catalogs and our well-known "big blue" coupons. We continue to invest in new technology tools that we expect will allow us to make significant strides in integrating our extensive customer data with relevant third-party data, in order to better scale, tailor and personalize marketing communications for our key customer segments.

Customer Care

Our omni-always strategy is rooted in elevating the end-to-end experience for our customers across all channels, brands and banners. Through a customer inspired lens, we invest in capabilities necessary to continuously evolve and deliver a seamless experience to our customers. Our digital-first customer care makes it easy for customers to connect with us through chat, phone, and our digital properties including our newly relaunched mobile apps that offer quick access to self-serve capabilities. Our holistic approach to customer care is designed to make it convenient for our customers to access help wherever and whenever they need it. 

Tradenames, Service Marks and Domain Names

We use the service marks "Bed Bath & Beyond," "buybuy BABY," "Harmon," "Face Values" and "Decorist" in connection with our retail services. We have registered trademarks and service marks or are seeking registrations for these and other trademarks and service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we have registered or have applications pending with the trademark registries of several foreign countries, including the "Bed Bath & Beyond" name and logo registered in Canada and Mexico and the "buybuy BABY" name and logo registered in Canada. We also own a number of product trademarks. We file patent applications and seek copyright registrations where we deem such to be advantageous to the business. We believe that our name recognition and service marks are important elements of our merchandising strategy.

8
We also own a number of domain names, including bedbathandbeyond.com, bedbathandbeyond.ca, buybuybaby.com, buybuybaby.ca, harmondiscount.com, facevalues.com and decorist.com.

People and Culture 

Our strategic transformation is based on five key pillars: product, price, promise, place and people. The people pillar of our transformation strategy communicates our commitment to creating and sustaining a talent engine and culture that attracts, retains and develops high performing team members who consistently deliver operational excellence and business results. 

We believe that developing and fostering a company culture that supports our value proposition, including aligning the value proposition of our associates with that of our customers, is critical to our strategy. As we consider how best to position associates to support our business and drive efficiency and effectiveness, we are guided by four principles: to be customer inspired, omni-always, people-powered and performance-driven. 

In 2020, we continued to assemble a new leadership team with deep industry expertise, and new skill sets, including omnichannel business experience, to complement existing in-house capabilities. As part of further organizational realignment efforts, we are evaluating the current allocation of resources at all levels to best utilize the skills and experience of our associates, while also recognizing the need to recruit new talent and perspectives, to accelerate our transformation. To support associate recruitment and retention, we are modernizing our new total rewards program to provide incentives, recognition and benefit programs that reflect the changing needs of our associates, with an emphasis on supporting associate wellbeing. 

As set forth in our Commitment to Equal Opportunity and Diversity statement, we believe that our diverse workforce contributes to the strong bond associates have with customers. We are committed to diversity, equity and inclusion and providing opportunities for professional and personal growth to all associates, regardless of background. We are in the process of collecting associate baseline data and evaluating our demographic profile through various lenses as the first step toward tracking organizational diversity and establishing metric goals. We also will appoint a Chief Diversity Officer in fiscal 2021 and are looking at additional opportunities to establish an inclusive associate community, including continuing to conduct bias assessments, providing unconscious bias training, supporting our first Associate Resource Group (Beyond Black Associates Coalition) and establishing a framework for expanding affinity groups, and promoting events that raise awareness and celebrate diverse experiences.

The health and wellbeing of our customers and associates is one of our top priorities. On March 23, 2020, we temporarily closed all of our retail stores across the US and Canada, other than BABY and Harmon stores, subject to state and local regulations. In connection with these closures and the related furlough of the majority of store associates and a portion of corporate associates, we paid 100% of the health care premiums for furloughed associates. We also initiated a new COVID sick time policy. We implemented rapid response programs for our associates, including COVID protocols and safety tips to keep our teams safe, and also initiated a new Store Safety Plan guided by our medical advisor and national, state, and local guidance. We also launched a microsite to more effectively communicate our COVID plan and policies and serve as a resource for our customers and associates, including mask, cleaning and social distancing requirements, associate temperature checks and other procedures. New policies to address stress and work-life harmony for associates working remotely include a stipend for office supplies, meeting-free lunch hours and dedicated personal focus time on Fridays after noon. Beyond COVID, we are also considering the future of how we work and implementing policies and practices that create a work environment that prioritizes safety, as well as flexibility and associate mental wellbeing.

As of February 27, 2021, we had approximately 37,600 associates, including approximately 31,200 store associates and 4,500 supply chain associates. We invest a great deal of time and effort in our relationship with our associates, and consider that relationship to be good.

Government Regulations

We believe that we are in compliance with all applicable government regulations, including environmental regulations. We do not anticipate any material effects on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position as a result of our efforts to comply with applicable government regulations. 

Seasonality

Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our sales volumes are higher in the calendar months of August (back to school), November and December (holiday), and lower in February.

9
Available Information

We make available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), free of charge, through our websites, www.bedbathandbeyond.com, and http://bedbathandbeyond.gcs-web.com/financial-information/sec-filings, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, electronically filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS