Item 1A.Risk Factors 

CenterPoint Energy is a holding company that conducts all of its business operations through subsidiaries, primarily Houston Electric, CERC, SIGECO, Indiana Gas and VEDO. CenterPoint Energy also owns interests in Enable. The following, along with any additional legal proceedings identified or incorporated by reference in Item 3 of this combined report on Form 10-K, summarizes the principal risk factors associated with the holding company, the businesses conducted by its subsidiaries and its interests in Enable. However, additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or not currently believed by management to be material may also adversely affect CenterPoint Energy’s businesses. For other factors that may cause actual 

20

results to differ from those indicated in any forward-looking statement or projection contained in this combined report on Form 10-K, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Certain Factors Affecting Future Earnings” in Item 7, which should be read in conjunction with the risk factors contained in this Item 1A. Carefully consider each of the risks described below, including those relating to Houston Electric and CERC, which, along with CenterPoint Energy, are collectively referred to as the Registrants. Unless the context indicates otherwise, where appropriate, information relating to a specific registrant has been segregated and labeled as such and specific references to Houston Electric and CERC in this section also pertain to CenterPoint Energy. In this combined report on Form 10-K, the terms “our,” “we” and “us” are used as abbreviated references to CenterPoint Energy, Inc. together with its subsidiaries. 

Risk Factors Associated with Our Consolidated Financial Condition

CenterPoint Energy is a holding company with no operations or operating assets of its own. As a result, CenterPoint Energy depends on the performance of and distributions from its subsidiaries and from Enable to meet its payment obligations and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock, and provisions of applicable law or contractual restrictions could limit the amount of those distributions. 

CenterPoint Energy derives all of its operating income from, and holds all of its assets through, its subsidiaries, including its interests in Enable. As a result, CenterPoint Energy depends on the performance of and distributions from its subsidiaries and Enable to meet its payment obligations and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock. In general, CenterPoint Energy’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide it with funds for its payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise. In addition, provisions of applicable law, such as those limiting the legal sources of dividends, limit CenterPoint Energy’s subsidiaries’ and Enable’s ability to make payments or other distributions to CenterPoint Energy, and its subsidiaries or Enable could agree to contractual restrictions on their ability to make payments or other distributions. Further, Houston Electric has agreed to certain “ring-fencing” measures to increase its financial separateness from CenterPoint Energy. Further ring-fencing measures could be imposed on Houston Electric in the future through legislation or PUCT rules or orders. While current ring-fencing measures have not impacted Houston Electric’s ability to pay dividends to CenterPoint Energy, the imposition of any additional ring-fencing measures impacting CenterPoint Energy’s ability to receive dividends from Houston Electric could materially adversely affect CenterPoint Energy’s cash flows, credit quality, financial condition and results of operations.

CenterPoint Energy’s right to receive any assets of any subsidiary, and therefore the right of its creditors to participate in those assets, will be structurally subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if CenterPoint Energy were a creditor of any subsidiary, its rights as a creditor would be effectively subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by CenterPoint Energy.

If we are unable to arrange future financings on acceptable terms, our ability to finance our capital expenditures or refinance outstanding indebtedness could be limited.

Our businesses are capital intensive, and we rely on various sources to finance our capital expenditures. For example, we depend on (i) long-term debt, (ii) borrowings through our revolving credit facilities and, for CenterPoint Energy and CERC, commercial paper programs, (iii) distributions from CenterPoint Energy’s interests in Enable and (iv) if market conditions permit, issuances of additional shares of common or preferred stock by CenterPoint Energy. We may also use such sources to refinance any outstanding indebtedness as it matures. As of December 31, 2020, CenterPoint Energy had $13.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, which includes $747 million of non-recourse Securitization Bonds. For information on outstanding indebtedness of Houston Electric and CERC as well as maturities through 2025, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Our future financing activities may be significantly affected by, among other things:

•general economic and capital market conditions;

•credit availability from financial institutions and other lenders;

•volatility or fluctuations in distributions from Enable’s units or volatility in Enable’s unit price;

•investor confidence in us and the markets in which we operate;

•the future performance of our and Enable’s businesses;

•integration of Vectren’s businesses into CenterPoint Energy, including technology systems;

•maintenance of acceptable credit ratings;

•market expectations regarding our future earnings and cash flows;

•our ability to access capital markets on reasonable terms;

•incremental collateral that may be required due to regulation of derivatives; and

•provisions of relevant securities laws.

21

In addition, our future financing activities may also be impacted by our ability to consummate the proposed sale of our Natural Gas businesses in Arkansas and Oklahoma. For further information on the proposed sale, see “— Our potential business strategies and strategic initiatives, including merger and acquisition activities and the disposition of assets or businesses, may not be completed or perform as expected, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows” below. With respect to impacts related to our investment in Enable, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the recently announced Enable Merger.

The Registrants’ current credit ratings and any changes in credit ratings in 2020 and to date in 2021 are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Other Matters — Impact on Liquidity of a Downgrade in Credit Ratings” in Item 7 of Part II of this report. These credit ratings may not remain in effect for any given period of time and one or more of these ratings may be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. The Registrants note that these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold their securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Any future reduction or withdrawal of one or more of the Registrants’ credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on their ability to access capital on acceptable terms. 

An impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, equity method investments and an impairment or fair value adjustment to CenterPoint Energy’s Enable Series A Preferred Unit investment could reduce our earnings.

Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. During the year ended December 31, 2020, CenterPoint Energy identified and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $185 million in the Indiana Electric reporting unit, reducing the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value as of March 31, 2020. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. For investments CenterPoint Energy accounts for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of such investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. CenterPoint Energy identified and recorded an impairment during the year ended December 31, 2020 based on the severity of the decline in Enable’s common unit price during the three months ended March 31, 2020 due to the macroeconomic conditions related in part to the COVID-19 pandemic, combined with Enable’s announcement on April 1, 2020 to reduce its quarterly distributions per common unit by 50%, and the market outlook indicating excess supply of crude oil and natural gas and continued depressed crude oil and natural gas prices impacting the midstream oil and gas industry. For further information regarding CenterPoint Energy’s impairment of its equity investment in Enable, please see Notes 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Should the annual goodwill impairment test or another periodic impairment test or an observable transaction, including for the Series A Preferred Unit investment, indicate the fair value of our assets is less than the carrying value, we would be required to take a non-cash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. A sustained or severe decline in Enable’s common unit price could result in CenterPoint Energy recording impairment charges again in the future. A non-cash impairment charge or fair value adjustment could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.

If CenterPoint Energy redeems the ZENS prior to their maturity in 2029, its ultimate tax liability and redemption payments would result in significant cash payments, which would adversely impact its cash flows. Similarly, a significant amount of exchanges of ZENS by ZENS holders could adversely impact CenterPoint Energy’s cash flows. 

CenterPoint Energy has approximately $828 million principal amount of ZENS outstanding as of December 31, 2020. CenterPoint Energy owns shares of ZENS-Related Securities equal to approximately 100% of the reference shares used to calculate its obligation to the holders of the ZENS. CenterPoint Energy may redeem all of the ZENS at any time at a redemption amount per ZENS equal to the higher of the contingent principal amount per ZENS ($56 million in the aggregate, or $3.97 per ZENS, as of December 31, 2020) or the sum of the current market value of the reference shares attributable to one ZENS at the time of redemption. In the event CenterPoint Energy redeems the ZENS, in addition to the redemption amount, it would be required to pay deferred taxes related to the ZENS. CenterPoint Energy’s ultimate tax liability related to the ZENS and ZENS-Related Securities continues to increase by the amount of the tax benefit realized each year. If the ZENS had been redeemed on December 31, 2020, deferred taxes of approximately $471 million would have been payable in 2020, based on 2020 tax rates in effect. In addition, if all the shares of ZENS-Related Securities had been sold on December 31, 2020 to fund the aggregate redemption amount, capital gains taxes of approximately $159 million would have been payable in 2020. Similarly, a significant amount of exchanges of ZENS by ZENS holders could adversely impact CenterPoint Energy’s cash flows. This could happen if CenterPoint Energy’s creditworthiness were to drop or the market for the ZENS were to become illiquid, or for some other reason. While funds for the payment of cash upon exchange of ZENS could be obtained from the sale of the shares of ZENS-Related Securities that CenterPoint Energy owns or from other sources, ZENS exchanges result in a cash outflow 

22

because tax deferrals related to the ZENS and ZENS-Related Securities shares would typically cease when ZENS are exchanged and ZENS-Related Securities shares are sold.

Dividend requirements associated with CenterPoint Energy’s Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock subject it to certain risks.

CenterPoint Energy has issued 800,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and 19,550,000 depositary shares, each representing a 1/20th interest in a share of CenterPoint Energy’s Series B Preferred Stock, which is expected to convert into Common Stock on September 1, 2021. CenterPoint Energy has also issued 725,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock of which 625,000 shares remain outstanding. The Series C Preferred Stock are expected to convert to Common Stock on or around May 7, 2021. Any future payments of cash dividends, and the amount of any cash dividends CenterPoint Energy pays, on its Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock will depend on, among other things, its financial condition, capital requirements and results of operations and the ability of our subsidiaries and Enable to distribute cash to CenterPoint Energy, as well as other factors that CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors (or an authorized committee thereof) may consider relevant. Any failure to pay scheduled dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock when due could materially adversely impact our ability to access capital on acceptable terms and would likely have a material adverse impact on the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series B Preferred Stock, Common Stock and CenterPoint Energy’s debt securities and would prohibit CenterPoint Energy, under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, from paying cash dividends on or repurchasing shares of Common Stock (subject to limited exceptions) until such time as CenterPoint Energy has paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock.

Further, the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock provide that if dividends on any of the respective shares have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly dividend periods, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, the holders of such shares, voting together as a single class with holders of any and all other series of CenterPoint Energy’s capital stock on parity with its Series A Preferred Stock or its Series B Preferred Stock (as to the payment of dividends and amounts payable on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of CenterPoint Energy’s affairs) upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of a total of two additional members of CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors, subject to certain terms and limitations.

Changes in the method of determining LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect the cost of capital related to outstanding debt and other financial instruments and may adversely affect the cash distributions received from the Enable Series A Preferred Units.

LIBOR is the basic rate of interest widely used as a global reference for setting interest rates on variable rate loans and other securities. Each of the Registrants’ credit and term loan facilities, including certain facilities or financial instruments entered into by their subsidiaries, use LIBOR as a reference rate. Additionally, on and after February 18, 2021, Enable is expected to pay distributions on the Enable Series A Preferred Units with an annual rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 8.5%. On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom announced that it would phase out LIBOR as a benchmark by the end of 2021. On November 30, 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority announced its support for the extension of certain tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR until June 2023, as well as the replacement of LIBOR by the SOFR. While this announcement extends the transition period to June 2023, the Federal Reserve concurrently issued a statement advising banks to stop new U.S. dollar LIBOR issuances by the end of 2021. However, because SOFR is a broad U.S. Treasury repo financing rate that represents overnight secured funding transactions, it differs fundamentally from LIBOR.. It is unclear whether other new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. The future of LIBOR at this time remains uncertain and any changes in the methods by which LIBOR is determined or regulatory activity related to LIBOR’s phaseout could cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past or cease to exist. Changes in the method of calculating LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative rate or benchmark, may adversely affect interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs. This could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and liquidity. Each of the Registrants’ credit facilities provide for a mechanism to replace LIBOR with possible alternative benchmarks upon certain benchmark replacement events. However, we are still currently evaluating the impact of any such potential benchmark replacements or unavailability of LIBOR. In addition, the overall financial markets may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential phase-out and alternative benchmark rates or disruption in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

23

Risk Factors Affecting Electric Generation, Transmission and Distribution Businesses (CenterPoint Energy and Houston Electric)

Rate regulation of Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s businesses may delay or deny their ability to earn an expected return and fully recover their costs.

Houston Electric’s rates are regulated by certain municipalities and the PUCT and Indiana Electric’s rates are regulated by the IURC. Their rates are set in comprehensive base rate proceedings (i.e., general rate cases) based on an analysis of their invested capital, their expenses and other factors in a designated test year. Each of these rate proceedings is subject to third-party intervention and appeal, and the timing of a general base rate proceeding may be out of Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s control. For Houston Electric, a general base rate proceeding is required 48 months from the date of the order setting rates in its most recent comprehensive rate proceeding, unless the PUCT issues an order extending the deadline to file that general base rate proceeding. For Indiana Electric, a general base rate proceeding is required prior to the expiration of its TDSIC plan, which expires on December 31, 2023. Houston Electric and Indiana Electric can make no assurance that their respective base rate proceedings will result in favorable adjustments to their rates, in full cost recovery or approval of other requested items, including, among other things, capital structure and ROE. Moreover, these base rate proceedings have caused in certain instances, and in the future could cause, Houston Electric and Indiana Electric to recover their investments below their requested levels (such as in the most recent Houston Electric general rate case), below the national average for utilities or below recently approved levels for other utilities in their respective jurisdictions. 

The rates that Houston Electric and Indiana Electric are allowed to charge may not match their costs at any given time, a situation referred to as “regulatory lag.” For Houston Electric and Indiana Electric, several interim rate adjustment mechanisms have been implemented to reduce the effects of regulatory lag (for example, DCRF, TCOS, TDSIC, DSMA and RCRA Mechanism), although certain of these mechanisms do not provide for recovery of operations and maintenance expenses. These adjustment mechanisms are subject to the applicable regulatory body’s approval and are subject to limitations that may reduce Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s ability to adjust rates. For further information on rate case proceedings and interim rate adjustment mechanisms, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of Part II of this report. See also “—The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” below for further information.

Houston Electric and Indiana Electric can make no assurance that filings for such mechanisms will result in favorable adjustments to rates or in full cost recovery. Notwithstanding the application of such rate adjustment mechanisms, the regulatory process by which rates are determined is subject to change as a result of the legislative process or rulemaking, as the case may be, and may not always be available or result in rates that will produce recovery of Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s costs or enable them to earn an expected return. Changes to the interim adjustment mechanisms could result in an increase in regulatory lag or otherwise impact Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s ability to recover their costs in a timely manner. Additionally, inherent in the regulatory process is some level of risk that jurisdictional regulatory authorities may initiate investigations of the prudence of operating expenses incurred or capital investments made by Houston Electric or Indiana Electric and deny the full recovery of their cost of service in rates. To the extent the regulatory process does not allow Houston Electric and Indiana Electric to make a full and timely recovery of appropriate costs, their results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 

Disruptions at power generation facilities owned by third parties or directives issued by regulatory authorities could interrupt Houston Electric’s sales of transmission and distribution services and adversely affect its reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Houston Electric transmits and distributes to customers of REPs electric power that the REPs obtain from power generation facilities owned by third parties. Houston Electric does not own or operate any power generation facilities. In February 2021, the Texas electric system experienced an unprecedented power shortage due to extreme winter weather conditions. The state’s power generation fell short of demand, resulting in significant electricity outages across Texas, including in Houston Electric’s service territory. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the February 2021 Winter Storm Event. If power generation is disrupted or if power generation capacity is inadequate or if ERCOT issues directives to TDUs (such as Houston Electric) to implement controlled outages, both of which recently occurred during the February 2021 Winter Weather Event, Houston Electric’s sales of transmission and distribution services may be diminished or interrupted, and its reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. See also “—The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and 

24

could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” below for further information.

Houston Electric’s receivables are primarily concentrated in a small number of REPs, and any delay or default in such payments could adversely affect Houston Electric’s cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

Houston Electric’s receivables from the distribution of electricity are collected from REPs that supply the electricity Houston Electric distributes to their customers. As of December 31, 2020, Houston Electric did business with approximately 64 REPs. Adverse economic conditions, including the impact of COVID-19, the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, structural problems in the market served by ERCOT or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for Houston Electric’s services or could cause them to delay such payments. Houston Electric depends on these REPs to remit payments on a timely basis. Applicable regulatory provisions require that customers be shifted to another REP or a provider of last resort if a REP cannot make timely payments. Applicable PUCT regulations significantly limit the extent to which Houston Electric can apply normal commercial terms or otherwise seek credit protection from firms desiring to provide retail electric service in its service territory, and Houston Electric thus remains at risk for payments related to services provided prior to the shift to another REP or the provider of last resort. A significant portion of Houston Electric’s billed receivables from REPs are from affiliates of NRG and Vistra Energy Corp. Houston Electric’s aggregate billed receivables balance from REPs as of December 31, 2020 was $210 million. Approximately 31% and 16% of this amount was owed by affiliates of NRG and Vistra Energy Corp., respectively. Any delay or default in payment by REPs could adversely affect Houston Electric’s cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. If a REP were unable to meet its obligations, it could consider, among various options, restructuring under the bankruptcy laws, in which event such REP might seek to avoid honoring its obligations, and claims might be made by creditors involving payments Houston Electric had received from such REP. 

Indiana Electric’s execution of its generation transition plan, including its IRP, and its regulated power supply operations are subject to various risks, including timely recovery of capital investments, increased costs and facility outages or shutdowns. 

Indiana requires each electric utility to perform and submit an IRP every three years, unless extended, to the IURC that uses economic modeling to consider the costs and risks associated with available resource options to provide reliable electric service for the next 20-year period on a periodic basis. Indiana Electric’s 2016 IRP modeling projected that the lowest cost and least risk generation portfolio to serve customers over the next 20 years involve retirement of a significant portion of its current generating fleet and replacing that generation capacity with other resources. Implementation of Indiana Electric’s IRP will likely require recovery of new capital investments, as well as costs of retiring the current generation fleet, including any remaining unrecovered costs of retired assets. In February 2018, as part of its electric generation transition plan, Indiana Electric received approval from the IURC to construct a 50 MW universal solar array and the plan to retrofit its largest, most efficient coal-fired generation unit (Culley Unit 3). With respect to its 2019/2020 IRP submitted to the IURC in June 2020, Indiana Electric identified a preferred generation resource that includes the replacement of 730 MW of coal-fired generation facilities with a significant portion composed of renewables, including solar and wind, supported by dispatchable natural gas combustion turbines, including a pipeline to serve such natural gas generation, as well as storage. While the IURC does not approve or reject the IRP, the process involves the issuance of a staff report that provides comments on the IRP. Depending on comments received on the IRP, the filing of any future requests for generating facilities could be delayed. Further, certain legislative activities such as a prohibition on the construction of new generation assets in excess of a set MW capacity, similar to moratorium legislation introduced in 2019 and ultimately defeated, or other legislation restricting or delaying new generation could negatively affect Indiana Electric’s ability to construct new generation facilities and execution of its capital plan. Even if a generation project is approved, risks associated with the construction of any new generation exist, including the ability to procure resources needed to build at a reasonable cost, scarcity of resources and labor, ability to appropriately estimate costs of new generation, the effects of potential construction delays and cost overruns and the ability to meet capacity requirements. Further, there is no guarantee that the IURC will approve the requests included in any of Indiana Electric’s future filed petitions relating to its IRP. For further information on the IRP, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of Part II of this report.

Additionally, Indiana Electric’s generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, increased purchase power costs and inadvertent releases of coal ash and/or other contaminants with a significant environmental impact. These operational risks can arise from circumstances such as facility shutdowns or malfunctions due to equipment failure or operator error; interruption of fuel supply or increased prices of fuel as contracts expire; disruptions in the delivery of electricity; inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements; labor disputes; or natural disasters, all of which could adversely affect Indiana Electric’s business. Further, Indiana Electric currently relies on coal for substantially all of its generation capacity. Currently, its coal supply is purchased largely from a 

25

single, unrelated party and, although the coal supply is under long-term contract, the loss of this supplier or transportation interruptions could adversely affect Indiana Electric’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Houston Electric and Indiana Electric, as a member of ERCOT and MISO, respectively, could be subject to higher costs for system improvements, as well as fines or other sanctions as a result of FERC mandatory reliability standards.

Houston Electric and Indiana Electric are members of ERCOT and MISO, respectively, which serve the electric transmission needs of their applicable regions. As a result of their respective participation in ERCOT and MISO, Houston Electric and Indiana Electric do not have operational control over their transmission facilities and are subject to certain costs for improvements to these regional electric transmission systems. In addition, the FERC has jurisdiction with respect to ensuring the reliability of electric transmission service, including transmission facilities owned by Houston Electric and other utilities within ERCOT and Indiana Electric and other utilities within MISO, respectively. The FERC has designated the NERC as the ERO to promulgate standards, under FERC oversight, for all owners, operators and users of the bulk power system. The FERC has approved the delegation by the NERC of authority for reliability in ERCOT to the Texas RE, a Texas non-profit corporation and for reliability in the portion of MISO that includes Indiana Electric to ReliabilityFirst Corporation, a Delaware non-profit corporation. Compliance with mandatory reliability standards may subject Houston Electric and Indiana Electric to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures, which may not be fully recoverable in rates. In addition, if Houston Electric or Indiana Electric were to be found to be in noncompliance with applicable mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. 

In connection with the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, there have been calls for reform of the Texas electric market, which, if implemented, could have material adverse impacts on Houston Electric.

Various governmental and regulatory agencies and other entities have called for or are conducting inquiries and investigations into the February 2021 Winter Storm Event and the efforts made by various entities to prepare for, and respond to, this event, including the electricity generation shortfall issues. Agencies and entities that may conduct or are conducting such inquiries, investigations and other reviews include the United States Congress, FERC, NERC, Texas RE, ERCOT, Texas government entities and officials such as the Texas Governor’s office, the Texas Legislature, the Texas Attorney General, the PUCT, the City of Houston and other municipal and county entities in Houston Electric’s service area, among other entities. In addition to questions around preparation and response, some federal and other officials, as well as members of the public and media, have called for reviews and reforms of the Texas electric market, including whether it should continue to be governed by ERCOT or instead be subject to FERC jurisdiction and regulation by joining an ISO such as MISO, as well as the division of the market between power generators, TDUs (such as Houston Electric) and REPs. There are significant uncertainties around these discussions and whether any market structure or governance changes will result therefrom, but if any such reviews and reform efforts ultimately result in changes to how the Texas electric market is structured or regulated, such changes could have a material adverse impact on Houston Electric’s business, results of operations and financial condition. See “—The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” below and Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 

Risk Factors Affecting Natural Gas’ Business (CenterPoint Energy and CERC)

Rate regulation of Natural Gas may delay or deny its ability to earn an expected return and fully recover its costs.

Natural Gas’ rates are regulated by certain municipalities (in Texas only) and state commissions based on an analysis of Natural Gas’ invested capital, expenses and other factors in a test year (often either fully or partially historic) in comprehensive base rate proceedings, subject to periodic review and adjustment. Each of these proceedings is subject to third-party intervention and appeal, and the timing of a general base rate proceeding may be out of Natural Gas’ control. Natural Gas has pending, or anticipates the filing of, rate cases in Indiana and Minnesota during 2021. Natural Gas can make no assurance that these respective base rate proceedings will result in favorable adjustments to its rates, full cost recovery or approval of other requested items, including, among other things, capital structure and ROE. Moreover, these base rate proceedings could cause Natural Gas to recover its investments at rates below its requested level, below the national average for utilities or below recently approved levels for other utilities in those jurisdictions.

The rates that Natural Gas is allowed to charge may not match its costs at any given time, resulting in what is referred to as “regulatory lag.” Though several interim rate adjustment mechanisms have been approved by jurisdictional regulatory authorities and implemented by Natural Gas to reduce the effects of regulatory lag (for example, GRIP, FRP, CSIA and DRR), such adjustment mechanisms are subject to the applicable regulatory body’s approval, which we cannot assure would be 

26

approved, and are subject to certain limitations that may reduce or otherwise impede Natural Gas’ ability to adjust its rates or result in rates below those requested by Natural Gas.

Natural Gas can make no assurance that filings for such mechanisms will result in favorable adjustments to rates. Notwithstanding the application of the rate mechanisms discussed above, the regulatory process by which rates are determined is subject to change as a result of the legislative process or rulemaking, as the case may be, and may not always be available or result in rates that will produce recovery of Natural Gas’ costs or enable Natural Gas to earn an expected return. Changes to the interim adjustment mechanisms could result in an increase in regulatory lag or otherwise impact Natural Gas’ ability to recover its costs in a timely manner. Additionally, inherent in the regulatory process is some level of risk that jurisdictional regulatory authorities may initiate investigations of the prudence of operating expenses incurred or capital investments made by Natural Gas and deny the full recovery of Natural Gas’ cost of service or the full recovery of incurred natural gas costs in rates. To the extent the regulatory process does not allow Natural Gas to make a full and timely recovery of appropriate costs, its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. For further information on rate case proceedings and interim rate adjustment mechanisms, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of Part II of this report.

Unlike CERC, Indiana Gas, SIGECO’s natural gas distribution business and VEDO must seek approval by the IURC and PUCO, as applicable, for long-term financing authority. This authority allows these utilities the flexibility to enter into various financing arrangements. In the event that the IURC or PUCO do not approve these utilities’ respective financing authorities, they may not be able to fully execute their financing plans and their respective financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.

Access to natural gas supplies and pipeline transmission and storage capacity are essential components of reliable service for Natural Gas’ customers.

Natural Gas depends on third-party service providers to maintain an adequate supply of natural gas and for available storage and intrastate and interstate pipeline capacity to satisfy its customers’ needs, all of which are critical to system reliability. Substantially all of Natural Gas’ natural gas supply is purchased from intrastate and interstate pipelines. If Natural Gas is unable to secure an independent natural gas supply of its own or through its affiliates or if third-party service providers fail to timely deliver natural gas to meet Natural Gas’ requirements, the resulting decrease in natural gas supply in Natural Gas’ service territories could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, a significant disruption, whether through reduced intrastate and interstate pipeline transmission or storage capacity or other events affecting natural gas supply, including, but not limited to, operational failures, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, severe winter weather conditions, acts of terrorism or cyberattacks or changes in legislative or regulatory requirements, could also adversely affect Natural Gas’ businesses. Further, to the extent that Natural Gas’ natural gas requirements cannot be met through access to or continued use of existing natural gas infrastructure or if additional infrastructure, including onshore and offshore exploration and production facilities, gathering and processing systems and pipeline and storage capacity is not constructed at a rate that satisfies demand, then Natural Gas’ operations could be negatively affected. For additional risks related to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see “—The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” below and Note 22 to the consolidated condensed financial statements for further information.

Natural Gas is subject to fluctuations in notional natural gas prices, which could affect the ability of its suppliers and customers to meet their obligations or otherwise adversely affect CERC’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. 

Natural Gas is subject to risk associated with changes in the notional price of natural gas. Increases in natural gas prices might affect Natural Gas’ ability to collect balances due from customers and could create the potential for uncollectible accounts expense to exceed the recoverable levels built into tariff rates. In addition, a sustained period of high natural gas prices could (i) decrease demand for natural gas in the areas in which Natural Gas operates, thereby resulting in decreased sales and revenues and (ii) increase the risk that Natural Gas’ suppliers or customers fail or are unable to meet their obligations. An increase in natural gas prices would also increase working capital requirements by increasing the investment that must be made to maintain natural gas inventory levels. For additional risks related to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see “—The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” below and Note 22 to the consolidated condensed financial statements for further information.

27

A decline in CERC’s credit rating could result in CERC having to provide collateral under its shipping arrangements or to purchase natural gas, which consequently would increase its cash requirements and adversely affect its financial condition.

If CERC’s credit rating were to decline, it might be required to post cash collateral under its shipping arrangements or to purchase natural gas. If a credit rating downgrade and the resultant cash collateral requirement were to occur at a time when CERC was experiencing significant working capital requirements or otherwise lacked liquidity, CERC’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. For additional risks related to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see “—The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” below and Note 22 to the consolidated condensed financial statements for further information.

Natural Gas must compete with alternate energy sources, which could result in less natural gas delivered and have an adverse impact on CERC’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Natural Gas competes primarily with alternate energy sources such as electricity and other fuel sources. In some areas, intrastate pipelines, other natural gas distributors and marketers also compete directly with Natural Gas for natural gas sales to end users. In addition, as a result of federal regulatory changes affecting interstate pipelines, natural gas marketers operating on these pipelines may be able to bypass Natural Gas’ facilities and market, sell and/or transport natural gas directly to commercial and industrial customers. Any reduction in the amount of natural gas delivered by Natural Gas as a result of competition with alternate energy sources may have an adverse impact on CERC’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Risk Factors Affecting ESG’s Business (CenterPoint Energy)

ESG’s operations could be adversely affected by a number of factors.

ESG’s business results are dependent on a number of factors. The industry in which ESG operates is competitive and many of the contracts are subject to a bidding process. Should ESG be unsuccessful in bidding contracts (for example, federal Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity contracts), results of operations could be impacted. Through competitive bidding, the volume of contracted work could vary significantly from year to year. Further, to the extent there are unanticipated cost increases in completion of the contracted work or issues arise where amounts due for work performed may not be collected, the profit margin realized on any single project could be reduced. Changes in legislation and regulations impacting the sectors in which the customers served by ESG operate could adversely impact operating results. Additionally, ESG’s business is subject to other risks including, but not limited to, the following: the discontinuation of the federal ESPC and UESC programs; the inability of customers to finance projects; failure to appropriately design, construct or operate projects; and cancellation of projects by customers or reductions in the scope of the projects. 

ESG’s business has performance and warranty obligations, some of which are guaranteed by CenterPoint Energy. 

In the normal course of business, ESG issues performance bonds and other forms of assurance that commit it to operate facilities, pay vendors or subcontractors and support warranty obligations. As the parent company, CenterPoint Energy has, and will, from time to time guarantee its subsidiaries’ commitments. These guarantees do not represent incremental consolidated obligations; rather, they represent parental guarantees of subsidiary obligations to allow the subsidiary the flexibility to conduct business without posting other forms of collateral. Neither CenterPoint Energy nor Vectren has been called upon to satisfy any obligations pursuant to these parental guarantees. 

Risk Factors Affecting Our Businesses

We are subject to operational and financial risks and liabilities arising from environmental laws and regulations, including regulation of CCR and climate change legislation as well as other risks related to the implementation of our carbon emissions reduction targets. We could also experience reduced demand for our services, including certain local initiatives to prohibit new natural gas service and increase electrification initiatives in jurisdictions served by Natural Gas.

Our operations are subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations pertaining to the environment. As an owner or operator of natural gas pipelines, distribution systems and storage, steam electric generating facilities and electric transmission and distribution systems, and the facilities that support these systems, we must comply with these laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including among others, restricting the use of fossil fuels through future climate legislation or regulation, limiting airborne emissions from generating facilities, restricting the way we manage wastes, including wastewater discharges and air emissions and requiring remedial action or monitoring to mitigate environmental actions caused by our operations or attributable to former 

28

operations. We may need to spend substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time to comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, revocation of permits, the imposition of remedial actions, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to clean, restore and monitor sites where hazardous substances have been stored, disposed or released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. 

In April 2015, the EPA finalized its CCR Rule, which regulates ash as non-hazardous material under the RCRA. The final rule allows beneficial reuse of ash, and the majority of the ash generated by Indiana Electric’s generating plants will continue to be beneficially reused. In July 2018, the EPA released its final CCR Rule Phase I Reconsideration which extended the deadline to October 31, 2020 for ceasing placement of ash in ponds that exceed groundwater protections standards or that fail to meet location restrictions. In August 2019, the EPA proposed additional “Part A” amendments to its CCR Rule with respect to beneficial reuse of ash and other materials. Further “Part B” amendments, which related to alternate liners for CCR surface impoundments and the surface impoundment closure process, were published in March 2020. The Part A amendments were finalized in August 2020, and the Part B amendments were finalized in November 2020 and extended the deadline to cease placement of ash in ponds to April 11, 2021. The EPA published an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking on legacy CCR surface impoundments in October 2020, and in December 2020 provided new data and requested public comment as part of the Agency’s reconsideration of its definition of beneficial reuse. The Part A amendments do not restrict Indiana Electric’s current beneficial reuse of its fly ash. CenterPoint Energy continues to evaluate the Part B amendments to determine potential impacts. The potential effects of future amendments to the CCR Rule are uncertain at this time.

Regulatory agencies have also adopted, and from time to time consider adopting, new legislation and/or modifying existing laws and regulations to reduce GHGs. There continues to be a wide-ranging policy and regulatory debate, both nationally and internationally, regarding the potential impact of GHGs and possible means for their regulation. The EPA has expanded its existing GHG emissions reporting requirements, which could also lead to further regulation of GHGs by the EPA. The recent trend in environmental regulation has been to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment, which is expected to continue under the Biden administration. For example, President Biden has recommitted the United States to the Paris Agreement. Shortly after taking office in January 2021, President Biden also issued a series of executive orders designed to address climate change, as well as an executive order requiring agencies to review environmental actions taken by the Trump administration. The Biden administration has also issued a memorandum to departments and agencies to refrain from proposing or issuing rules until a departmental or agency head appointed or designated by the Biden administration has reviewed and approved the rule. Reentry into the Paris Agreement and President Biden’s executive orders may result in the development of additional regulations or changes to existing regulations. Potential future restrictions include, among other things, the United States enacting additional GHG regulations and mandated financial, emissions and other disclosures. The terms on which the United States will be re-entering the Paris Agreement are unclear at this time. As a distributor and transporter of natural gas, Natural Gas’ revenues, operating costs and capital requirements could be adversely affected as a result of any regulatory action that would require installation of new control technologies or a modification of its operations or that would have the effect of reducing the consumption of natural gas. Thus, there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be greater than the amounts we currently anticipate. Additionally, Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s transmission and distribution businesses’ revenues could be adversely affected to the extent any resulting regulatory action has the effect of reducing consumption of electricity by ultimate consumers within its service territory. Likewise, incentives to conserve energy or use energy sources other than natural gas could result in a decrease in demand for our services. For further discussion, see “Business—Environmental Matters” in Item 1 and “— Risk Factors Affecting Natural Gas’ Business —Natural Gas must compete with alternate energy sources, which could result in less natural gas delivered and have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.” 

Furthermore, in March 2020, we established a goal to reduce carbon emissions directly attributable to our operations 70% from 2005 levels by 2035, and we announced a broad corporate initiative to achieve a net reduction of carbon emissions attributed to customer usage 20–30% from 2005 levels by 2040. Our ability to achieve these carbon emission reduction goals depends on various external factors, including supportive energy policies, alternative fuels programs, research and development efforts focused on low-carbon technologies such as carbon capture, customer participation in conservation and energy-efficiency programs and low natural gas prices. We expect to increase our renewable energy resources portfolio as part of our IRP process and to continue optimizing technology advancements to modernize our systems. Any negative opinions with respect to these goals or our environmental practices, including any inability to achieve, or a scaling back of, these goals developed by regulators, customers, investors or legislators could harm our reputation. 

29

Evolving investor sentiment related to the use of fossil fuels and initiatives to restrict continued production of fossil fuels may have substantial impacts on CenterPoint Energy’s electric generation and natural gas businesses. For example, because Indiana Electric’s current generating facilities substantially rely on coal for their operations, certain financial institutions choose not to participate in CenterPoint Energy’s financing arrangements. Also, certain cities in CenterPoint Energy’s Natural Gas operational footprint have adopted initiatives to prohibit the construction of new natural gas facilities that would provide service and focus on electrification. For example, Minneapolis has adopted carbon emission reduction goals in an effort to decrease reliance on fossil gas. Also, Minnesota cities may consider seeking legislative authority for the ability to enact voluntary enhanced energy standards for all development projects. Any such initiatives and legislation could adversely affect CenterPoint Energy’s results of operations.

The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 

In February 2021, certain of our jurisdictions experienced an extreme and unprecedented winter weather event that resulted in prolonged freezing temperatures, which impacted, and may continue to impact, our businesses.

In Texas, the February 2021 Winter Storm Event caused many electric generation facilities to shut-down, resulting in electricity generation shortages and high electric prices in the wholesale generation market. The electricity generation shortages necessitated ERCOT to direct TDUs, including Houston Electric, to implement controlled outages in their respective service areas. In compliance with ERCOT’s directives and emergency procedures, Houston Electric implemented controlled electricity outages across its service territory, resulting in a substantial number of its customers (on certain days over a million residents) being without power, many for extended periods of time. ERCOT has stated that the electric outages were necessary to avoid prolonged large-scale, state-wide blackouts and long-term damage to the electric system in Texas. As a result, Houston Electric’s sales of transmission and distribution services were diminished or interrupted for several days. Additionally, the electricity generation shortage resulted in wholesale electricity prices increasing to their maximum allowed limit. Many REPs may face financial difficulties due to their inability to recover these high prices from their customers, and any such financial difficulties may impair the ability of these REPs to pay for Houston Electric’s services or could cause them to delay such payments. For further information on the concentration of Houston Electric’s receivables with REPs, see “— Houston Electric’s receivables are primarily concentrated in a small number of REPs, and any delay or default in such payments could adversely affect Houston Electric’s cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.”

During and in the immediate aftermath of the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, there has been focus on the lack of sufficient winterization protection for power generation facilities. On February 18, 2021, the Governor of Texas requested that the Texas Legislature mandate the winterization of the Texas power system, which could include TDUs. If any such protections are required in the future, the cost of such protections may increase the cost of electricity and reduce consumption of electricity by ultimate consumers in Houston Electric’s service territory, which could adversely affect Houston Electric’s results of operations. Any potential decreases in customer usage due to higher electricity prices charged by REPs may not result in increased base rates charged by Houston Electric for its services until its next general base rate proceeding. For further information on Houston Electric’s regulatory proceedings, see “— Rate regulation of Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s businesses may delay or deny their ability to earn an expected return and fully recover their costs.”

Furthermore, the February 2021 Winter Storm Event also impacted the wholesale prices CenterPoint Energy and CERC paid for natural gas and their ability to service customers in their Natural Gas service territories, including due to the reduction in available natural gas capacity and impacts to CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s natural gas supply portfolio activities, and the effects of weather on their systems and their ability to transport natural gas, among other things. CenterPoint Energy and CERC experienced significant impacts as the February 2021 Winter Storm Event impacted the overall natural gas market, including resulting in increases in the costs of natural gas supply. In particular, the February 2021 Winter Storm Event also caused severe disruptions in the markets from which CenterPoint Energy and CERC sourced a significant portion of their natural gas for their utility operations, resulting in extraordinary increases in the price of natural gas to CenterPoint Energy and CERC. From February 12, 2021 to February 22, 2021, management estimates CenterPoint Energy spent approximately an incremental $2.5 billion more on natural gas supplies compared to plan (inclusive of an incremental $2.3 billion more spent by CERC on natural gas supplies compared to plan). These amounts are preliminary estimates through February 23, 2021 and are subject to final settlement. These purchases are generally payable at the end of March 2021. As of February 22, 2021, CenterPoint Energy had approximately $2.1 billion in total liquidity. While CenterPoint Energy and CERC will seek to recover these increased gas purchase costs from customers (although neither full recovery nor the timing of that recovery is certain), in the interim, CenterPoint Energy and CERC will seek additional external financing to pay for such natural gas working capital, which may consist of short and long-term debt, but such external financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. On February 24, 2021, CERC received financing commitments totaling $1.7 billion for a 364-day term loan facility to bridge potential working capital needs. Any additional external debt financing and/or partial or delayed recovery of these natural gas 

30

costs may negatively impact CenterPoint Energy’s or CERC’s credit metrics, and could lead to a downgrade of CenterPoint Energy’s or CERC’s credit rating. The inability of CenterPoint Energy or CERC to recover all or a portion of the increased costs of natural gas, or any associated delay in recovery, in addition to the increased external financing required to pay for such natural gas could have a material adverse impact on CenterPoint Energy’s or CERC’s, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 

In addition to the risks discussed in this risk factor, for further information on risks related to: 

•the arranging of future financings on acceptable terms, see “— If we are unable to arrange future financings on acceptable terms, our ability to finance our capital expenditures or refinance outstanding indebtedness could be limited”; 

•the ability to seek recovery of the additional costs natural gas, see “— Rate regulation of Natural Gas may delay or deny its ability to earn an expected return and fully recover its costs”; 

•access to natural gas supplies, see “— Access to natural gas supplies and pipeline transmission and storage capacity are essential components of reliable service for Natural Gas’s customers”;

•various regulatory, investigations, litigation or other proceedings, see “— In connection with the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, there have been calls for reform of the Texas electric market, which, if implemented, could have material adverse impacts on Houston Electric”;

•the fluctuations in notional natural gas prices, see “— Natural Gas is subject to fluctuations in notional natural gas prices, which could affect the ability of its suppliers and customers to meet their obligations or otherwise adversely affect CERC’s liquidity, results of operations and financial condition”; 

•the impact of a decline in CERC’s credit rating, see “— A decline in CERC’s credit rating could result in CERC having to provide collateral under its shipping arrangements or to purchase natural gas, which consequently would increase its cash requirements and adversely affect its financial condition”; and

•potential reforms of the Texas electric market, see “— In connection with the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, there have been calls for reform of the Texas electric market, which, if implemented, could have material adverse impacts on Houston Electric’s business.”

CenterPoint Energy may be unable to effectively complete the integration of the businesses acquired in the Merger, including the integration of technology systems, for which significant time and resources have been allocated thereto. 

CenterPoint Energy continues to integrate certain aspects of CenterPoint Energy’s and Vectren’s businesses. The integration of technology systems and processes that CenterPoint Energy uses to plan and report financial information, manage work, monitor systems, respond to outages and perform other critical functions has been, and continues to be, a complex, costly and time consuming process, which is expected to be completed in 2021. CenterPoint Energy may experience delays, cost-overruns or other issues affecting the successful completion of the integration of these technology systems and other related processes. The failure to timely, efficiently and cost-effectively complete the integration could adversely affect CenterPoint Energy’s results of operations and cash flows. 

In connection with the integration of such technology systems and processes, CenterPoint Energy must also successfully design and operate its systems of internal controls to continue to accurately provide reliable financial reports, including reporting of its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If CenterPoint Energy’s efforts to maintain an effective system of internal controls throughout the integration of its technology systems are not successful, it is unable to maintain adequate controls over its financial reporting and processes in the future or it is unable to comply with its obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, CenterPoint Energy could be harmed or it may fail to meet its reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in CenterPoint Energy’s reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on, among other things, the trading prices of its securities.

Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities or perform certain corporate functions.

Our performance depends on the successful operation of our facilities. Operating these facilities involves many risks inherent in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity and in the delivery of natural gas that could result in substantial losses or other damages. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:

•operator error or failure of equipment or processes, including failure to follow appropriate safety protocols;

•the handling of hazardous equipment or materials that could result in serious personal injury, loss of life and environmental and property damage;

31

•operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements;

•labor disputes; 

•information technology or financial and billing system failures, including those due to the implementation and integration of new technology, that impair our information technology infrastructure, reporting systems or disrupt normal business operations;

•information technology failure that affects our ability to access customer information or causes us to lose confidential or proprietary data that materially and adversely affects our reputation or exposes us to legal claims; and

•catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, leaks, floods, droughts, hurricanes, ice storms, flooding, terrorism, wildfires, pandemic health events or other similar occurrences, including any environmental impacts related thereto, which catastrophic events may require participation in mutual assistance efforts by us or other utilities to assist in power restoration efforts.

Such events may result in a decrease or elimination of revenue from our facilities, an increase in the cost of operating our facilities or delays in cash collections, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. 

Our revenues and results of operations are seasonal.

A significant portion of Houston Electric’s revenues is derived from rates that it collects from each REP based on the amount of electricity it delivers on behalf of such REP. Similarly, Indiana Electric’s revenues are derived from rates it charges its customers to provide electricity. Natural Gas’ revenues are primarily derived from natural gas sales. Consequently, Houston Electric’s, Indiana Electric’s and Natural Gas’ revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity and natural gas usage, as applicable. Houston Electric’s revenues are generally higher during the warmer months. As in certain past years, unusually mild weather in the warmer months could diminish Houston Electric’s results of operations and harm its financial condition. Conversely, as in certain past years, extreme warm weather conditions could increase Houston Electric’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be annually recurring. A significant portion of Indiana Electric’s sales are for space heating and cooling. Consequently, as in certain past years, Indiana Electric’s results of operations may be adversely affected by warmer-than-normal heating season weather or colder-than-normal cooling season weather, while more extreme seasonal weather conditions could increase Indiana Electric’s results of operations in a manner that would not likely be annually recurring. Natural Gas’ revenues are customarily higher during the winter months. As in certain past years, unusually mild weather in the winter months could diminish Natural Gas’ results of operations and harm its financial condition. Conversely, as occurred in certain past years, extreme cold weather conditions could increase its results of operations in a manner that would not likely be annually recurring. For information related to our weather hedges, see Note 9(a) to the consolidated financial statements. For additional risks related to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see “—The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” below and Note 22 to the consolidated condensed financial statements for further information.

Climate changes could adversely impact financial results from our businesses and result in more frequent and more severe weather events that could adversely affect our results of operations.

A changing climate creates uncertainty and could result in broad changes, both physical and financial in nature, to our service territories. If climate changes occur that result in warmer temperatures in our service territories, financial results from our businesses could be adversely impacted. For example, Natural Gas could be adversely affected through lower natural gas usage. Another possible result of climate change is more frequent and more severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes or severe winter weather conditions, including ice storms. Since certain of our facilities are located along or near the Gulf Coast, increased or more severe hurricanes or tornadoes could increase our costs to repair damaged facilities and restore service to our customers. For example, in 2020, eight named storms occurred along the Gulf Coast. Of these eight storms, we experienced four named hurricanes in our service territories, which impacted our Natural Gas facilities. Our electric and Natural Gas operations in our services territories were impacted due to the February 2021 Winter Storm Event. For further information on the February 2021 Winter Storm Event, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements and “—The February 2021 Winter Storm Event has caused severe disruptions to our customers and our markets in certain of our jurisdictions and could have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” above. When we cannot deliver electricity or natural gas to customers or our customers cannot receive our services, our financial results can be impacted by lost revenues, and we generally must seek approval from regulators to recover restoration costs. To the extent we are unable to recover those costs, or if higher rates resulting from our recovery of such costs result in reduced demand for our services, our future financial results may be adversely impacted. Any such decreased energy use may also require us to retire current infrastructure that is no longer needed. Further, we may be subject to climate change lawsuits, which could result in substantial penalties or damages. 

32

Aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact our financial results.

We have risks associated with aging infrastructure assets, including the failure of equipment or processes and potential breakdowns due to such aging. The age of certain of our assets may result in a need for replacement or higher level of maintenance costs because of our risk based federal and state compliant integrity management programs. Failure to achieve timely and full recovery of these expenses could adversely impact revenues and could result in increased capital expenditures or expenses. In addition, the nature of information available on aging infrastructure assets may make inspections, maintenance, upgrading and replacement of the assets particularly challenging. Further, with respect to Natural Gas’ operations, if certain pipeline replacements (for example, cast-iron or bare steel pipe) are not completed timely or successfully, government agencies and private parties might allege the uncompleted replacements caused events such as fires, explosions or leaks. Although we maintain insurance for certain of our facilities, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in the event that a catastrophic loss is alleged to have been caused by a failure to timely complete equipment replacements. Insufficient insurance coverage and increased insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

Our businesses will continue to have to adapt to technological change and may not be successful or may have to incur significant expenditures to adapt to technological change. 

We operate businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. Some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly and increasing in complexity. New technologies will emerge or grow that may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, and may require us to make significant investments and expenditures so that we can continue to provide cost-effective and reliable methods for energy production and delivery. Among such technological advances are distributed generation resources (e.g., private solar, microturbines, fuel cells), energy storage devices and more energy-efficient buildings and products designed to reduce energy consumption and waste. As these technologies become a more cost-competitive option over time, whether through cost effectiveness or government incentives and subsidies, certain customers may choose to meet their own energy needs and subsequently decrease usage of our systems and services, including Indiana Electric’s generating facilities becoming less competitive and economical. Further, certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Additionally, technological advances driven by federal laws mandating new levels of energy efficiency in end-use electric and natural gas devices or other improvements in or applications of technology could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption.

Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these technological changes in a cost-effective manner, to offer, on a timely basis, reliable services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards, and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. If we fail to adapt successfully to any technological change or obsolescence, fail to obtain access to important technologies or incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological change, or if implemented technology does not operate as anticipated, our businesses, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.

Our potential business strategies and strategic initiatives, including merger and acquisition activities and the disposition of assets or businesses, may not be completed or perform as expected, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows depend, in part, on our management’s ability to implement our business strategies successfully and realize the anticipated benefits therefrom. In May 2020, our Board of Directors established a Business Review and Evaluation Committee, which was designed to assist the Board of Directors in evaluating and optimizing our businesses, assets and ownership interests. In October 2020, the Business Review and Evaluation Committee of the Board of Directors completed its review and made final recommendations to the full Board of Directors. Our business strategy incorporated the Business Review and Evaluation Committee’s recommendations to further increase our planned capital expenditures in our electric and Natural Gas businesses to support rate base growth and sell certain of our Natural Gas businesses located in Arkansas and Oklahoma as a means to efficiently finance a portion of such increased capital expenditures, among other recommendations. From time to time we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions or divestitures of businesses and assets, including our proposed sale of our Natural Gas businesses in Arkansas and Oklahoma and the Enable Merger, form joint ventures or undertake restructurings. However, suitable acquisition candidates or potential buyers may not continue to be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable, or the expected benefits of completed acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all, or may not be realized in the anticipated timeframe. In particular, if proceeds from our proposed sale are less than what we anticipate or if those sales or the Enable Merger are not completed for any reason, we may be required to seek alternative methods to finance our proposed capital expenditure program or cut back on such capital expenditure program. 

33

For additional risks related to the Enable Merger, see the risks listed under the “Risk Factors Affecting CenterPoint Energy’s Interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP” and Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the Enable Merger. If we are unable to make acquisitions, or if those acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, our future growth may be adversely affected. Further, any completed or future acquisitions involve substantial risks, including the following:

•acquired businesses or assets may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels;

•acquired businesses or assets could have environmental, permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate; 

•we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates, or for which our rights to indemnification from the seller are limited; 

•we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; and 

•acquisitions, or the pursuit of acquisitions, could disrupt our ongoing businesses, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain current business standards, controls and procedures. 

We are exposed to risks related to reduction in energy consumption due to factors such as unfavorable economic conditions in our service territories and changes in customers’ perceptions from incidents of other utilities involving natural gas pipelines.

Our businesses are affected by reduction in energy consumption due to factors including economic climate and market conditions in our service territories, energy efficiency initiatives, use of alternative technologies and changes in our customers’ perceptions regarding natural gas usage as a result of incidents of other utilities involving natural gas pipelines, which could impact our ability to grow our customer base and our rate of growth. Growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence demand for electricity and natural gas and the need for additional delivery facilities. Customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside our control, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand-side management goals, distributed generation resources and economic and demographic conditions, including population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. Declines in demand for electricity and natural gas in our service territories due to pipeline incidents of other utilities, increased electricity and natural gas prices as experienced during the February 2021 Winter Storm Event and economic downturns, among other factors, could reduce overall usage and lessen cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production and, therefore, consumption of electricity and natural gas. Although Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s transmission and distribution businesses are subject to regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of certain costs under periodic adjustment clauses, overall declines in electricity delivered and used as a result of economic downturn or recession could reduce revenues and cash flows, thereby diminishing results of operations. Additionally, the significant decline in energy and commodity prices that occurred during 2020, if sustained into 2021, could cause the rate of economic, employment and/or population growth in certain of our service territories to decline. In particular, Houston, Texas has a higher percentage of employment tied to the energy sector relative to other regions of the country. A reduction in the rate of economic, employment and/or population growth could result in lower growth and reduced demand for and usage of electricity and natural gas in such service territories. As such, sustained low energy and commodity prices could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Some or all of these factors could result in a lack of growth or decline in customer demand for electricity or number of customers and may result in our failure to fully realize anticipated benefits from significant capital investments and expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on their financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Risk Factors Affecting CenterPoint Energy’s Interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP (CenterPoint Energy)

CenterPoint Energy’s cash flows will be adversely impacted if it receives less cash distributions from Enable than it currently expects, whether as a result of Enable’s performance or otherwise, or if it reduces its ownership in Enable.

CenterPoint Energy holds a substantial limited partner interest in Enable (53.7% of the outstanding common units representing limited partner interests in Enable as of December 31, 2020), as well as 50% of the management rights in Enable GP and a 40% interest in the incentive distribution rights held by Enable GP. As of December 31, 2020, CenterPoint Energy owned an aggregate of 14,520,000 Enable Series A Preferred Units representing limited partner interests in Enable. Accordingly, CenterPoint Energy’s future earnings, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition will be affected by the performance of Enable, the amount of cash distributions it receives from Enable and the value of its interests in Enable. 

Enable has historically been expected to pay a minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2875 per unit, or $1.15 per unit on an annualized basis, on its outstanding common units to the extent it has sufficient cash from operations after establishment of cash 

34

reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to Enable GP and its affiliates (referred to as “available cash”). Enable may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable it (i) to pay distributions on the Enable Series A Preferred Units or (ii) maintain or increase the distributions on its common units. On April 1, 2020, in response to COVID-19 and economic conditions impacting the oil and gas industry, Enable announced a reduction in its quarterly distributions per common unit from $0.3305 distributed for the fourth quarter 2019 to $0.16525, representing a 50% reduction. This reduction has resulted in, and is expected to result in additional, quarterly distributions to CenterPoint Energy that fall below the expected minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2875 per common unit. This reduction in Enable’s quarterly distributions per common unit reduces its common unit distributions to CenterPoint Energy by approximately $155 million per year assuming no further reductions. To the extent such economic conditions persist or further deteriorate, quarterly distributions on Enable’s common units may be subject to further reductions. For further discussion regarding CenterPoint Energy’s impairment of its equity investment in Enable, please see “—An impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, equity method investments and an impairment or fair value adjustment to CenterPoint Energy’s Enable Series A Preferred Unit investment could reduce our earnings.”

Enable is expected to pay a distribution of $0.625 per Enable Series A Preferred Unit, or $2.50 per Enable Series A Preferred Unit on an annualized basis, until February 17, 2021. Thereafter, Enable is expected to pay a distribution on the Enable Series A Preferred Units with an annual rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 8.5%. Distributions on each Enable Series A Preferred Unit are not mandatory and are non-cumulative in the event distributions are not declared on the Enable Series A Preferred Units. Additionally, distributions on the Enable Series A Preferred Units reduce the amount of available cash Enable has to pay distributions on its common units. The amount of cash Enable can distribute on its common units and the Enable Series A Preferred Units will principally depend upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the fees and gross margins it realizes with respect to the volume of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil that it handles and the prices of, levels of production of, and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Please refer to Enable’s operational, regulatory and financial risks and other factors set forth in its SEC filings that may have a material impact on its performance and cash distributions, and, hence, the value of CenterPoint Energy’s interests in Enable.

Additionally, CenterPoint Energy’s process of evaluating and optimizing the various businesses, assets and ownership interests currently held by it considered, among other things, various plans, proposals and other strategic alternatives with respect to Enable and CenterPoint Energy’s investment in Enable. In February 2021, CenterPoint Energy announced its support of the Enable Merger, which is expected to close in the second half of 2021, subject to customary closing conditions, including Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust clearance. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. CenterPoint Energy may not realize any or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational or other benefits from the Enable Merger, if completed, or from any disposition or reduction of its resulting investment in Energy Transfer. There can be no assurances that any disposal of Energy Transfer common units or Energy Transfer Series G Preferred Units will be completed. Any disposal of such securities may involve significant costs and expenses, including in connection with any public offering, a significant underwriting discount. There can be no assurances that CenterPoint Energy will be able to reinvest any proceeds from the disposition of any Energy Transfer common units or Energy Transfer Series G Preferred Units, if any, when received as a result of the closing of the Enable Merger, in a manner that provides for a similar rate of return as those securities.

We cannot be certain of the precise value of any merger consideration we may receive in the Enable Merger because the exchange ratio is fixed and the market price of Energy Transfer’s common units may fluctuate. 

At the time the Enable Merger is completed, each issued and outstanding Enable common unit we own will be converted into the right to receive the merger consideration of 0.8595 of one common unit representing limited partner interests in Energy Transfer. The exchange ratio for the merger consideration is fixed, and there will be no adjustment to the merger consideration for changes in the market price of Energy Transfer’s common units or Enable’s common units prior to the completion of the Enable Merger. If the Enable Merger is completed, there will be a time lapse between the Enable Merger Agreement date and the date on which we are entitled to, and actually receive, the merger consideration. The market value of Energy Transfer’s common units may fluctuate during this period as a result of a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in Energy Transfer’s businesses, operations and prospects and regulatory considerations. Such factors are difficult to predict and, in many cases, may be beyond Enable’s and Energy Transfer’s control. The actual value of any merger consideration we receive upon the completion of the Enable Merger will depend on the market value of the Energy Transfer common units at that time. This market value may differ, possibly materially, from the market value of Energy Transfer’s common units at the time the merger agreement was entered into or at any other time.

35

The Enable Merger may not be completed, and the Enable Merger Agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms.

The Enable Merger is subject to a number of conditions that must be satisfied or waived prior to its completion, including (i) the receipt of the required approvals from Enable’s unitholders, (ii) the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, (iii) the absence of any governmental order or law that prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the Enable Merger, (iv) Energy Transfer common units issuable in connection with the Enable Merger having been authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject to official notice of issuance and (v) Energy Transfer’s registration statement on Form S-4 having been declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act. The obligation of each party to consummate the Enable Merger is also conditioned upon the other party’s representations and warranties being true and correct (subject to certain materiality exceptions) and the other party having performed in all material respects its obligations under the Enable Merger Agreement. Enable’s obligation to consummate the Enable Merger is further conditioned upon the receipt of a customary tax opinion of counsel that for U.S. federal income tax purposes, subject to certain exceptions, (i) it should not recognize any income or gain as a result of the Enable Merger and (ii) no gain or loss should be recognized by holders of Enable’s common units or Series A Preferred Units as a result of the Enable Merger. These conditions to the completion of the Enable Merger may not be satisfied or waived in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the Enable Merger may be delayed or may not be completed.

Moreover, if the Enable Merger is not completed by November 30, 2021, either Energy Transfer or Enable may choose not to proceed with the Enable Merger, and the parties can mutually decide to terminate the Enable Merger agreement at any time, before or after approval by Enable’s common unitholders. In addition, Energy Transfer and Enable may elect to terminate the Enable Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances as further detailed in the Enable Merger Agreement. If the Enable Merger Agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, Enable may be required to pay Energy Transfer a termination fee. Furthermore, if the Enable Merger is not completed for any reason, Enable’s future businesses and financial results may be adversely affected, including, among other things, Enable may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on the market price of its common units.

Enable will be subject to business uncertainties while the Enable Merger is pending, which could adversely affect its businesses.

Uncertainties about the effect of the Enable Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Enable. These uncertainties may impair its ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter and could cause customers and others that deal with Enable to seek to change their existing business relationships. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Enable Merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their roles with Energy Transfer following the Enable Merger. In addition, the Enable Merger Agreement restricts Enable from entering into certain corporate transactions and taking other specified actions without the consent of Energy Transfer, and generally requires Enable’s to continue its operations in the ordinary course, until completion of the Enable Merger. These restrictions may prevent Enable from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Enable Merger.

The common units representing limited partner interests in Energy Transfer to be received by us upon completion of the Enable Merger will have different rights than Enable’s common units.

Upon completion of the Enable Merger, we will no longer be unitholders of Enable. Instead, we will become Energy Transfer unitholders and, while our rights as Energy Transfer unitholders will continue to be governed by the laws of the state of Delaware, such rights will be subject to and governed by the terms of the Energy Transfer Certificate of Limited Partnership, as amended, and the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Energy Transfer, as amended. The laws of the state of Delaware and terms of the Energy Transfer certificate of limited partnership and the Energy Transfer Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership are in some respects different than the terms of Enable’s Certificate of Limited Partnership and its Partnership Agreement, which currently govern our rights.

General Risk Factors Affecting Our Businesses and/or CenterPoint Energy’s Interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP

Cyberattacks, physical security breaches, acts of terrorism or other disruptions could adversely impact our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.

We are subject to cyber and physical security risks related to adversaries attacking information technology systems, network infrastructure, technology and facilities used to conduct almost all of our businesses, which includes, among other things, (i) managing operations and other business processes and (ii) protecting sensitive information maintained in the normal 

36

course of business. For example, the operation of our electric generation, transmission and distribution systems are dependent on not only physical interconnection of our facilities but also on communications among the various components of our systems and third-party systems. This reliance on information and communication between and among those components has increased since deployment of the intelligent grid, smart devices and operational technologies across our businesses. Further, certain of the various internal systems we use to conduct our businesses are highly integrated. Consequently, a cyberattack or unauthorized access in any one of these systems could potentially impact the other systems. Similarly, our business operations are interconnected with external networks and facilities. The distribution of natural gas to our customers requires communications with Enable’s pipeline facilities and third-party systems. The gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas from Enable’s gathering, processing and pipeline facilities and crude oil gathering pipeline systems also rely on communications among its facilities and with third-party systems that may be delivering natural gas or crude oil into or receiving natural gas or crude oil and other products from Enable’s facilities. Disruption of those communications, whether caused by physical disruption such as storms or other natural disasters, by failure of equipment or technology or by manmade events, such as cyberattacks or acts of terrorism, may disrupt our or Enable’s ability to conduct operations and control assets.

Cyberattacks, including phishing attacks and threats from the use of malicious code such as malware, ransomware and viruses, and unauthorized access could also result in the loss, or unauthorized use, of confidential, proprietary or critical infrastructure data or security breaches of other information technology systems that could disrupt operations and critical business functions, adversely affect reputation, increase costs and subject us to possible legal claims and liability. Further, third parties, including vendors, suppliers and contractors, who perform certain services for us or administer and maintain our sensitive information, could also be targets of cyberattacks and unauthorized access. We are not fully insured against all cybersecurity risks, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. As domestic and global cyber threats are on-going and increasing in sophistication, magnitude and frequency, our critical energy infrastructure may be targets of state-sponsored attacks, terrorist activities or otherwise that could disrupt our respective business operations. Furthermore, experts have observed an increase in the volume and the sophistication of cyberattacks since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could lead to additional disruptions. For information about our cybersecurity risks related to COVID-19, please see “—We face risks related to COVID-19 and other health epidemics and outbreaks, including economic, regulatory, legal, workforce and cyber security risks, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity” below. Any such disruptions could result in significant costs to repair damaged facilities, restore service and implement increased security measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.

Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information could adversely affect us.

In connection with our businesses, we and our vendors, suppliers and contractors collect and retain personally identifiable information (for example, information of our customers, shareholders, suppliers and employees), and there is an expectation that we and such third parties will adequately protect that information. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and data privacy is increasingly demanding. New laws and regulations governing data privacy and the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information pose increasingly complex compliance challenges and elevate our costs. Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations, including as a result of a security or privacy breach, could result in significant costs, fines and penalties and liabilities for us. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of the personally identifiable information we maintain or failure of our vendors, suppliers and contractors to use or maintain such data in accordance with contractual provisions and other legal requirements could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and penalties and liabilities for us. Additionally, if we acquire a company that has violated or is not in compliance with applicable data protection laws, we may incur significant liabilities and penalties as a result.

Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Insufficient insurance coverage and increased insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

We currently have insurance in place, such as general liability and property insurance, to cover certain of our facilities in amounts that we consider appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of our facilities may not be sufficient to fully cover or restore the loss or damage without negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Costs, damages and other liabilities related to recent events and incidents that affected other utilities, such as wildfires and explosions, among other things, have exceeded or could exceed such utilities’ insurance coverage. Further, as a result of these recent events and incidents, the marketplace for insurance coverage may be unavailable or limited in capacity or any such available coverage may be deemed by us to be cost prohibitive under current conditions. Any such coverage, if available, may not be eligible for recovery, whether in full or in part, by us through the rates charged by our utility businesses.

37

In common with other companies in its line of business that serve coastal regions, Houston Electric does not have insurance covering its transmission and distribution system, other than substations, because Houston Electric believes it to be cost prohibitive and insurance capacity to be limited. Historically, Houston Electric has been able to recover the costs incurred in restoring its transmission and distribution properties following hurricanes or other disasters through issuance of storm restoration bonds or a change in its regulated rates or otherwise. In the future, any such recovery may not be granted. Therefore, Houston Electric may not be able to restore any loss of, or damage to, any of its transmission and distribution properties without negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

We face risks related to COVID-19 and other health epidemics and outbreaks, including economic, regulatory, legal, workforce and cyber security risks, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

The COVID-19 pandemic is a rapidly evolving situation that is adversely affecting current global economic activities and conditions. An extended slowdown of economic growth, decreased demand for commodities and/or material changes in governmental or regulatory policy in the United States has resulted in, and could continue to result in, lower growth, including customer growth, and reduced demand for and usage of electricity and natural gas in our service territories as customer facilities close, remain closed or potentially close again. We have experienced reduced demand and usage among our electric and natural gas commercial and industrial customers, as well as a decrease in revenues from disconnections and reconnections due to the disconnect moratoriums across our service territories due to COVID-19, which have either expired or may expire during the second quarter of 2021 in certain of the Registrants’ service territories. The ability of our customers, contractors and suppliers to meet their obligations to us, including payment obligations, has also been negatively affected under the current economic conditions. As a result of the disconnect moratoriums across our Natural Gas service territories and other payment deferrals or arrangements, days outstanding on receivables and uncollectible accounts have increased, resulting in an increase to allowance for credit losses. To the extent these conditions in our service territories persist, our bad debt expense from uncollectible accounts could continue to increase, negatively impacting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. REPs could encounter financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, which could impair their ability to pay for Houston Electric’s services or could cause them to delay such payments, adversely affecting Houston Electric’s cash flows and liquidity. Additionally, our state and local regulatory agencies, in response to a federal mandate or otherwise, could impose restrictions on the rates we charge to provide our services, including the inability to implement approved rates, or delay actions with respect to our rate cases and filings. The COVID-19 pandemic may affect our ability to timely satisfy regulatory requirements such as recordkeeping and/or timely reporting requirements. For further information on COVID-19 regulatory matters, please see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 

With respect to our supply chain, while we have not experienced significant disruptions or challenges from the COVID-19 pandemic, to the extent we experience such disruptions in our supply chain that limit our ability to obtain materials and equipment necessary for our businesses, whether through delayed order fulfillment, limited production or unavailability due to COVID-19, we may be unable to perform our operations timely or as anticipated, which could result in service or construction delays or increased costs. Furthermore, in the event key officers or a substantial portion of our workforce were to be impacted by COVID-19 for an extended period of time, we may face challenges with respect to our services or operations and we may not be able to execute our capital plan as anticipated. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the extent to which COVID-19 will continue to spread, even with the availability of a vaccine therefor, and the extent and duration of governmental and other measures implemented to try to slow the spread of COVID-19, such as large-scale travel bans and restrictions, border closures, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and business and government shutdowns. Restrictions of this nature have caused, and may continue to cause, us, our suppliers and other business counterparties to experience operational delays, shortages of employees, facility shutdowns or business closures. We have modified certain business and workforce practices (including those related to employee travel, employee work locations and participation in meetings, events and conferences) to conform to government restrictions and best practices encouraged by governmental and regulatory authorities. However, the quarantine of personnel or the inability to access our facilities or customer sites could adversely affect our operations. While certain of our personnel have been, and may continue to be, quarantined, our operations and corporate functions have not been adversely affected to date. As of the date of this Form 10-K, we have increased the permitted occupancy of certain of our offices and facilities, with the rest of our office-based personnel continuing to work remotely under alternate work arrangements. Where we must maintain a presence in the field, we have adjusted our operational protocols to minimize exposure and risk to our field personnel, customers and the communities we serve, including, among other things, modifying our work schedules and reporting locations, delaying certain work types, such as maintenance and capital projects, and adjusting project scope and scale to adhere to safety protocols, while continuing to maintain the work activities necessary for safe and reliable service to our customers with increased safety precautions, but we cannot assure that such adjustments and precautions will be sufficient to minimize exposure to and risk from COVID-19. Also, we have a limited number of highly skilled employees for some of our operations. If a large proportion of our employees in those critical positions were to contract COVID-19 at the same time, we would rely upon our business continuity plans in an effort to continue operations at our facilities, but there is no certainty that 

38

such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the adverse impact to our operations that could result from shortages of highly skilled employees. Additionally, in the event that customers, contractors, employees or others were to allege that they contracted COVID-19 because of actions we took or failed to take, we could face claims, lawsuits and potential legal liability. In addition to the reasonableness of our actions and efforts to comply with applicable COVID-19 guidance, our exposure and ultimate liability would depend upon the applicability of workers’ compensation, the availability of insurance coverage and limitations on liability being considered or enacted at the state and federal level.

Experts have observed an increase in the volume and the sophistication of cyberattacks since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Any technology system breaches and/or data privacy incidents could disrupt our operations or result in the loss or exposure of confidential or sensitive customer, employee or company information and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As many of our employees and third-party service providers work remotely in accordance with government mandates or guidelines, we face heightened cyber security and privacy risks related to unauthorized system access, aggressive social engineering tactics and adversaries attacking the information technology systems, network infrastructure, technology and facilities used to conduct our business. The increase in the remote working arrangements of our employees as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic has required enhancements and modifications to our information technology infrastructure (for example, virtual private network, or VPN, and remote collaboration systems), and any failures of these technologies, including third-party service providers, that facilitate working remotely could limit our ability to conduct our ordinary operations and expose us to increased risk or impact of a cyberattack. 

We will continue to monitor developments affecting our employees, customers and operations. At this time, however, we cannot predict the extent or duration of the COVID-19 pandemic or its effects on national, state and local economies, including the impact on our ability to access capital markets, our supply chain, our business strategies and plans and our workforce, nor can we estimate the potential adverse impact from COVID-19 on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

Our success depends upon our ability to attract, effectively transition, motivate and retain key employees and identify and develop talent to succeed senior management.

We depend on senior executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, effectively transition and retain key personnel. The inability to recruit and retain or effectively transition key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our strategies.

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce and maintain good labor relations could adversely impact the operations of our facilities and our results of operations.

Our businesses are dependent on recruiting, retaining and motivating employees. Certain circumstances, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, a mismatch of existing skillsets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as a lack of resources, loss of knowledge or a lengthy time period associated with skill development. Our costs, including costs to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate our businesses, particularly the specialized skills and knowledge required to construct and operate generation facilities, a technology-enabled power grid and transmission and distribution facilities, among other facilities. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be negatively affected.

Furthermore, the operations of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees, and several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions, comprising approximately 36% of our workforce. We have several separate bargaining units, each with a unique collective bargaining agreement described further in Note 8(j) to the consolidated financial statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference. The collective bargaining agreements with OPEIU Local 12 and Mankato related to Natural Gas employees in Minnesota are scheduled to expire in May 2021 and March 2021, respectively, and negotiations are currently in progress and expected to be completed before the May 2021 and March 2021 expirations. Any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. These potential labor disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. Labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows.

39

Changing demographics, poor investment performance of pension plan assets and other factors adversely affecting the calculation of pension liabilities could unfavorably impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial position.

CenterPoint Energy and its subsidiaries maintain qualified defined benefit pension plans covering certain of its employees. Costs associated with these plans are dependent upon a number of factors including the investment returns on plan assets, the level of interest rates used to calculate the funded status of the plan, contributions to the plan, the number of plan participants and government regulations with respect to funding requirements and the calculation of plan liabilities. Funding requirements may increase and CenterPoint Energy may be required to make unplanned contributions in the event of a decline in the market value of plan assets, a decline in the interest rates used to calculate the present value of future plan obligations, or government regulations that increase minimum funding requirements or the pension liability. In addition to affecting CenterPoint Energy’s funding requirements, these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial position.

We may be significantly affected by changes in federal income tax laws and regulations, including any comprehensive federal tax reform legislation.

Our businesses are impacted by U.S. federal income tax policy. Under the Biden administration with the Senate and House of Representatives controlled by the Democratic Party, comprehensive federal tax reform legislation could be enacted that may significantly change the federal income tax laws applicable to domestic businesses, including changes that may increase the federal income tax rate and impact investment incentives and deductions for depreciation and interest, among other deductions. While CenterPoint Energy and its subsidiaries cannot assess the overall impact of any such potential legislation on our businesses, it is possible that our results of operations, financial conditions or cash flows could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, with any enacted federal tax reform legislation, it is uncertain how state commissions and local municipalities may require us to respond to the effects of such tax legislation, including determining the treatment of EDIT and other increases and decreases in our revenue requirements. As such, potential regulatory actions in response to any enacted tax legislation could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

We are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are uncertain, and resolutions adverse to us could negatively affect our financial results.

The Registrants are subject to numerous legal proceedings, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 16 to the Registrants’ respective consolidated financial statements. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and the Registrants cannot predict the outcome of all matters with assurance. Additionally, under some circumstances, the Registrants could potentially have claims filed against them or incur liabilities associated with assets and businesses no longer owned by them as a result of sales, divestitures or other transfers to third parties who may be unable to fulfill their indemnity obligations to the Registrants. Final resolution of these matters, or any potential future claims or liabilities, may require additional expenditures over an extended period of time that may be in excess of established insurance or reserves and may have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ financial results.

Our businesses may be adversely affected by the intentional misconduct of our employees.

We are committed to living our core values of safety, integrity, accountability, initiative and respect and complying with all applicable laws and regulations. Despite that commitment and our efforts to prevent misconduct, it is possible for employees to engage in intentional misconduct, fail to uphold our core values, and violate laws and regulations for individual gain through contract or procurement fraud, misappropriation, bribery or corruption, fraudulent related-party transactions and serious breaches of our Ethics and Compliance Code and Standards of Conduct/Business Ethics policy, among other policies. If such intentional misconduct by employees should occur, it could result in substantial liability, higher costs, increased regulatory scrutiny and negative public perceptions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

40

Item 2.Properties