PART I

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

Emerson (“the Company”) is a global leader that designs and manufactures products and delivers services that bring technology and engineering together to provide innovative solutions for customers in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets around the world. Our purpose is to drive innovation that makes the world healthier, safer, smarter and more sustainable. Sales by geographic destination in 2021 were: the Americas, 53 percent; Europe, 18 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 29 percent (China, 12 percent). 

The Company reports three segments: Automation Solutions; and Climate Technologies and Tools & Home Products, which together comprise the Commercial & Residential Solutions business. A summary of the Company's businesses is described below.

•Automation Solutions - enables process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers to maximize production, protect personnel and the environment, and optimize their energy efficiency and operating costs through a broad offering of products and integrated solutions, including measurement and analytical instrumentation, industrial valves and equipment, and process control software and systems.

•Commercial & Residential Solutions - provides products and solutions that promote energy efficiency and sustainability, enhance household and commercial comfort, and protect food quality and sustainability through heating, air conditioning and refrigeration technology, as well as a broad range of tools and appliance solutions.

The Company sells products and solutions that support customers in a variety of different end markets. Overall, sales by end market were as follows: oil and gas, 17 percent (upstream, 11 percent; midstream, 6 percent); residential, 16 percent; chemical, 10 percent; power, 10 percent; discrete and industrial, 10 percent; commercial, 9 percent; cold chain/refrigeration, 7 percent; refining, 6 percent; life sciences and medical, 3 percent; other, 12 percent.

Emerson was incorporated in Missouri in 1890 and has evolved through internal growth and strategic acquisitions. Management has a well-established set of operating mechanisms to manage its business performance and set strategy. The Company also has processes undertaken by management with oversight from the Board of Directors to specifically focus on risks in areas such as cybersecurity, compliance, environmental, financial and reputational, among others. The Company periodically updates, assesses, and monitors its risk exposures, provides timely updates to the Board, and takes actions to mitigate these risks. 

Acquisitions are an integral component of Emerson's growth and value creation strategy. On October 11, 2021, the Company announced that it entered into a definitive agreement with Aspen Technology, Inc. ("AspenTech") to combine two of Emerson's stand-alone industrial software businesses, Open Systems International, Inc. ("OSI") and the geological simulation software business, along with a contribution of $6.0 billion in cash to AspenTech shareholders, to create "new AspenTech", a diversified, high-performance industrial software leader with greater scale, capabilities and technologies. Upon closing of the transaction, the Company will own 55 percent of new AspenTech and its results and financial position will be fully consolidated in Emerson's financial statements. 

In 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of OSI, a leading operations technology software provider, which broadens and complements Automation Solutions’ software portfolio and ability to help customers in the global power industry, and other end markets, transform and digitize operations to more seamlessly incorporate renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency and reliability.

In 2020, the Company acquired three businesses, two in the Automations Solutions segment and one in the Climate Technologies segment, and in 2019 the Company acquired several smaller businesses to expand its Automation Solutions product portfolio, which included the acquisition of Machine Automation Solutions (General Electric's former Intelligent Platforms business). Information with respect to acquisition and divestiture activity is set forth in Note 4. These references and all other Note references in this document refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which notes are hereby incorporated by reference. See also Item 1A - “Risk Factors” and Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

1

AUTOMATION SOLUTIONS

The Automation Solutions segment offers a broad array of products, integrated solutions, software and services which enable process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers to maximize production, protect personnel and the environment, reduce project costs, and optimize their energy efficiency and operating costs. Markets served include oil and gas, refining, chemicals, power generation, life sciences, food and beverage, automotive, pulp and paper, metals and mining, and municipal water supplies. The segment’s major product offerings are Measurement & Analytical Instrumentation, Valves, Actuators & Regulators, Industrial Solutions and Systems & Software, which are further described below. 

Across these product offerings, Automation Solutions offers the PlantwebTM Digital Ecosystem, a comprehensive Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) architecture that provides remote monitoring by combining intelligent field sensors, communication gateways and controllers, software, and complementary partner technologies. This IIoT architecture delivers measurable business performance improvements to customers by providing insights into production performance, energy consumption, reliability of specific equipment or process units, and safety. Together with the broad offering of products and integrated solutions, Automation Solutions also provides a portfolio of services and lifecycle service centers which offer consulting, engineering, systems development, project management, training, maintenance, and troubleshooting expertise to aid in process optimization. Sales by geographic destination in 2021 for Automation Solutions were: the Americas, 44 percent; Europe, 21 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 35 percent (China, 14 percent).

Measurement & Analytical Instrumentation

Measurement instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases in a process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, rate and amount of flow, and communicates this information to a process control system or other software applications. Measurement technologies provided by the Company include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultra-low flow fluid measurement, corrosion measurement, acoustic measurement, temperature sensors, radar-based tank gauging and magnetic level gauging. The Company’s measurement products are often used in custody transfer applications, such as the transfer of gasoline from a storage tank to a tanker truck, where precise metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset management. Complementary products include onshore and subsea multi-phase meters, wet gas meters, downhole gauges and corrosion/erosion measuring instruments.

Analytical instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids and emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental compliance. The Company’s analytical technologies include process gas chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process fluid analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure pH, conductivity and water quality. The Company provides sensors to detect combustible and toxic gases, and flames. These devices support the safety of both people and process plant assets.

Measurement and analytical instrumentation technologies are also available with highly secure and reliable wireless communication capability, allowing customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously not measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due to the high cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants.

Valves, Actuators & Regulators

The primary role of an industrial valve is to control, isolate, or regulate the flow of liquids or gases to achieve safe operation along with reliability and optimized performance.

Control, isolation and pressure relief valves respond to commands from a control system to continuously and precisely modulate the flow of process fluids and gases. Engineered on/off valves are typically used to achieve tight shutoff, even in high-pressure and high-temperature processes. The Company designs, engineers and manufactures ball, gate, globe, check, sliding stem, rotary, high performance butterfly, triple offset, and severe services valves for critical applications. The Company also designs and manufactures sophisticated smart actuation and control technologies that continuously monitor valve health and remotely control valve positions to foster proactive and predictive maintenance as well as decrease the risk of unplanned shutdowns.

2

The Company provides pressure management products, including pressure relief, vacuum relief, and gauge valves designed to control fugitive emissions. The Company also supplies a line of industrial and residential regulators, whose function is to reduce the pressure of fluids and gases moving from high-pressure supply lines into lower pressure systems, and also manufactures tank and terminal safety equipment, including hatches, vent pressure and vacuum relief valves, and flame arrestors for storage tanks in the oil and gas, petrochemical, refining and other process industries.

Industrial Solutions

Industrial Solutions include fluid control and pneumatic mechanisms, electrical distribution equipment, materials joining solutions and precision cleaning products which are used in a variety of manufacturing operations to provide integrated solutions to customers. Pneumatic products transform air or gas into energy and power for use in manufacturing operations such as food processing and packaging, life sciences and petrochemical processing. Products include solenoid and pneumatic valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders and actuators, air preparation equipment, and pressure, vacuum, temperature switches and automobile assembly. Electrical distribution consists of a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying electrical distribution devices, including conduit and cable fittings, plugs and other receptacles, industrial lighting, enclosures and controls. Electrical distribution products are used in hazardous, industrial and commercial environments, such as oil and gas drilling and production sites, petrochemical plants and commercial buildings. Plastic and metal joining technologies and equipment are supplied to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including automotive, medical devices, business and consumer electronics, and textile manufacturing. The Company also provides precision cleaning and liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial manufacturers. Products include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment; linear and orbital vibration welding equipment; systems for hot plate, spin and laser welding; and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning systems.

Systems & Software

The Company provides process control systems and software that control plant processes by collecting and analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant and using that information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control hardware for maximum product quality and process efficiency and safety. Software capabilities also include life sciences operations management, upstream oil and gas reservoir simulation and production optimization modeling, pipeline and terminal management, operations management simulation, and training systems. The Company’s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to support a mobile workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide location tracking of people and assets, and enable video monitoring and communication with wireless field devices, thereby increasing the information available to operators.

On October 1, 2020, the Company completed the acquisition of Open Systems International, Inc., a leading operations technology software provider, which broadens and complements Automation Solutions’ software portfolio and ability to help customers in the global power industry, and other end markets, transform and digitize operations to more seamlessly incorporate renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency and reliability. See Note 4.

On January 31, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Machine Automation Solutions (General Electric's former Intelligent Platforms business). This business offers programmable logic controller technologies that expand the Company's capabilities in machine control and discrete applications, as well as for process and hybrid markets. The Company also completed several acquisitions of software providers, including Zedi, which offers a cloud-based supervisory control and data acquisition platform that helps oil and gas producers optimize and manage their operations. 

Distribution

The principal worldwide distribution channel for Automation Solutions is a direct sales force, while a network of independent sales representatives, and to a lesser extent independent distributors purchasing products for resale, are also utilized. Approximately half of the sales in the United States are made through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent sales representatives and distributors. In Europe and Asia, sales are primarily made through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between independent sales representatives and distributors.

3

Brands

Service/trademarks and trade names within (but not exclusive to) Automation Solutions include Emerson Automation Solutions, Appleton, ASCO, Aventics, Bettis, Branson, DeltaV, Fisher, Keystone, KTM, Micro Motion, Monarch, Ovation, Plantweb, Rosemount and Vanessa.

COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL SOLUTIONS

The Commercial & Residential Solutions business consists of the Climate Technologies and Tools & Home Products segments, and provides products and solutions that promote energy efficiency and sustainability, enhance household and commercial comfort, and protect food quality and sustainability through heating, air conditioning and refrigeration technology, as well as a broad range of tools and appliance solutions. Sales by geographic destination in 2021 for Commercial & Residential Solutions were: the Americas, 68 percent; Europe, 13 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 19 percent (China, 9 percent).

CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES

The Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for many areas of the climate control industry, including residential heating and cooling, commercial air conditioning, commercial and industrial refrigeration, and cold chain management. The Company's technologies enable homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems for improved control and comfort, and lower energy costs. Climate Technologies also provides services that digitally control and remotely monitor refrigeration units in grocery stores and other food distribution outlets to enhance food freshness and safety, as well as cargo and transportation monitoring solutions. Sales by geographic destination in 2021 for Climate Technologies were: the Americas, 64 percent; Europe, 12 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 24 percent (China, 12 percent).

Residential and Commercial Heating and Air Conditioning

The Company provides a full range of heating and air conditioning products that help reduce operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments in all types of buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll compressors, including ultra-efficient residential scroll compressors with two stages of cooling capacity, as well as variable speed scroll compressors; system protector and flow control devices; standard, programmable and Wi-Fi thermostats; monitoring equipment and electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas valves for furnaces and water heaters; ignition systems for furnaces; sensors and thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and controls.

Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration

Commercial and industrial refrigeration technologies are incorporated into equipment to refrigerate food and beverages in supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations, refrigerated trucks and refrigerated marine transport containers. Climate Technologies refrigeration products are also used in a wide variety of industrial applications, including medical applications, food processing and cold storage. Products include reciprocating, scroll and screw compressors; precision flow controls; system diagnostics and controls that provide precise temperature management; and environmental control systems. Transport and cargo monitoring solutions are also offered, which extend throughout the cold chain to ensure quality and safety as food travels from growers to processing and distribution facilities, and finally to retail points of sale.

Services and Solutions

Services and solutions provides air conditioning, refrigeration and lighting control technologies that enable global customers to optimize the performance of facilities, including large-scale retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores and food service operations. The Company’s expertise allows customers to reduce energy and maintenance costs, thereby improving overall facility efficiency and uptime. In addition to industry-leading controls, services include facility design and product management, site commissioning, facility monitoring and energy modeling.

4

Distribution

Climate Technologies' sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and end users, are made predominantly through worldwide direct sales forces. Remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor networks throughout the world. Approximately one-third of this segment’s sales are made to a small number of original equipment manufacturers.

Brands

Service/trademarks and trade names within (but not exclusive to) the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions, Emerson Climate Technologies, Copeland, CoreSense, Dixell, Fusite, Lumity, ProAct, Sensi, Therm-O-Disc, Vilter and White-Rodgers.

TOOLS & HOME PRODUCTS

The Company’s Tools & Home Products segment offers tools for professionals and homeowners and appliance solutions. Sales by geographic destination in 2021 for this segment were: the Americas, 78 percent; Europe, 16 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 6 percent.

Professional Tools

Pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals to install and repair piping systems. Products include pipe wrenches, pipe cutters, pipe threading and roll grooving equipment, mechanical crimping tube joining systems, drain cleaners, tubing tools, and diagnostic systems, including closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment. Electrical tools are used by industry professionals for numerous tasks related to the installation of wire and cable, including bending, termination and hole-making. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry vacuums, commercial vacuums and bolt cutters. The Company also offers do-it-yourself tools, available at retail home improvement outlets, which include drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools, and wet-dry vacuums.

Appliance Solutions

The Company provides a number of appliance solutions, including residential and commercial food waste disposers, instant hot water dispensers and compact electric water heaters.

Distribution

The principal worldwide distribution channels for Tools & Home Products are distributors and direct sales forces. Professional tools are sold worldwide almost exclusively through distributors. Appliance solutions are sold through direct sales force networks, distributors and online retailers. Approximately one-fourth of this segment's sales are made to a small number of big-box retail outlets.

Brands

Service/trademarks and trade names within (but not exclusive to) the Tools & Home Products segment include Emerson, Emerson Professional Tools, Badger, Greenlee, Grind2Energy, InSinkErator, Klauke, ProTeam and RIDGID.

RAW MATERIALS

The Company's major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum and brass; and to a lesser extent, plastics and petroleum-based chemicals. The Company seeks to have many sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters or other events. In fiscal 2021, market price volatility for certain materials, most notably the price of steel, negatively impacted the Company's profitability. The Company also navigated supply chain disruptions and experienced higher freight costs. Despite these challenging conditions, the raw materials and various purchased components needed for the Company’s products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. See Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

5

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES

The Company maintains an intellectual property portfolio it has developed or acquired over a number of years, including patents, trademarks and licenses. The Company also continues to develop or acquire new intellectual property. New patent applications are continuously filed to protect the Company’s ongoing research and development activities. The Company’s trademark registrations may be renewed and their duration is dependent upon national laws and trademark use. While this proprietary intellectual property portfolio is important to the Company in the aggregate, management does not regard any of its segments as being dependent on any single patent, trademark registration or license.

BACKLOG

The Company’s estimated consolidated order backlog was $6.5 billion and $5.3 billion at September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Approximately 85 percent of the Company’s consolidated backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue over the next 12 months, with the remainder substantially over the subsequent two years thereafter. Backlog by business at September 30, 2021 and 2020 follows (dollars in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

COMPETITION

The Company's businesses operate in highly competitive markets. The Company competes based on product performance, quality, branding, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. A significant element of the Company's competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high-quality products at the best relevant global cost. Although no single company competes directly with Emerson in all of the Company's product lines, various companies compete in one or more product lines with the number of competitors varying by product line. Some competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than Emerson and the Company also competes with many smaller companies. Management believes Emerson has a market leadership position in many of its product lines.

REGULATIONS

The Company's operations, products and services are subject to various government regulations, including environmental regulations. Our manufacturing locations generate waste, of which treatment, storage, transportation and disposal are subject to U.S. federal, state, foreign and/or local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. The Company continually works to minimize the environmental impact of its operations through safe technologies, facility design and operating procedures. Compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, has not had, and based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures (including expenditures for environmental control facilities), earnings or competitive position. However, laws and regulations may be changed, accelerated or adopted that impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company and which could negatively impact our operating results. See Item 1A - "Risk Factors."

HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES

Supporting our people is a core value for Emerson and underpins our corporate culture. We believe the Company’s success depends on its ability to attract, develop and retain key personnel, and we hired our first Chief People Officer, Elizabeth Adefioye, to help ensure the Company remains focused on this goal. The skills, experience and industry knowledge of key employees significantly benefit our operations and performance. The Company's Board of Directors and management oversee various employee initiatives. 

The Company supports and develops its employees through global training and development programs that build and strengthen employees’ leadership and professional skills. Leadership development programs include intensive 

6

learning programs for new leaders as well as more established leaders. The Company also partners with educational institutions and nonprofit organizations to help prepare current and future workers with the knowledge and skills they need to succeed. To assess and improve employee retention and engagement, the Company surveys employees with the assistance of third-party consultants, and takes actions to address areas of employee concern. Approximately 45,000 employees were surveyed during the three years ended September 30, 2021. 

Employee health and safety in the workplace is also one of the Company’s core values. Safety efforts are led by the Corporate Safety Council and supported by health and safety committees that operate at the local site level. Hazards in the workplace are actively identified and management tracks incidents so remedial actions can be taken to improve workplace safety. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored for us the importance of keeping our employees safe and healthy. In response to the pandemic, the Company has taken actions aligned with the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to protect our workforce so they can more safely and effectively perform their work. 

We have identified other human capital priorities, including, among other things, providing competitive wages and benefits and promoting an inclusive work environment. The Company is committed to efforts to increase diversity and foster an inclusive work environment that supports our large global workforce and helps us innovate for our customers. We also have taken actions to enhance diversity, including recruiting at venues representing women, minorities and U.S. military veterans. In 2021, the Company introduced diversity goals at the leadership level. Our efforts are guided by our Chief Executive Officer and Diversity Council, which is comprised of 14 senior-level executives. 

Employee levels are managed to align with the pace of business and management believes it has sufficient human capital to operate its business successfully. The Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 86,700 employees at September 30, 2021. Management believes that the Company's employee relations are favorable. 

A small portion of the Company’s U.S. employees are unionized, while outside the U.S., we have employees in certain countries, particularly in Europe, that are represented by an employee representative organization, such as a union, works council or employee association.

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 

Emerson’s global purpose is to drive innovation that makes the world healthier, safer, smarter and more sustainable. Our environmental sustainability strategy is focused on driving progress within our facilities and helping our customers achieve their ESG objectives. In 2019, we made a commitment to reduce our GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions by 20 percent, normalized to sales, across our entire global manufacturing footprint and shared service facilities by 2028, measured by our baseline year of 2018. In 2020, we formed the Environmental Sustainability Steering Committee to further our efforts to drive environmentally responsible solutions for the Company and the industries we serve. And in early 2021, we named Mike Train as our first Chief Sustainability Officer. 

Our environmental sustainability strategy is summarized by our “Greening Of, Greening By, Greening With” framework. Greening Of Emerson demonstrates our efforts to improve our internal environmental sustainability performance, including reducing our GHG emissions and energy and water consumption. Greening By Emerson is our approach to delivering technology, solutions and expertise (including through our software offerings) that support and enable our customers’ decarbonization and environmental sustainability efforts. Greening With Emerson reflects how we foster collaboration among stakeholders by participating in environmental sustainability industry forums, partnering to develop innovative solutions, and engaging with governments globally to support sustainability-related policies and regulations. 

Emerson’s environmental sustainability initiatives and strategy are discussed further in our 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Report, which can be found on our website at www.Emerson.com; this report is not incorporated by reference and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K. 

7

INTERNET ACCESS

Emerson's reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements, are available without charge through the Company’s website on the internet as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They may be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investors, SEC Filings. Information on the Company’s website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K.

The information set forth under Item 1A - “Risk Factors” is hereby incorporated by reference.

ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS