Item 1A. Risk Factors

In addition to the matters set forth under "Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" included immediately prior to Item 1, Business, above, we are subject to a variety of material risks. Our susceptibility to certain risks, including those discussed in detail below, could exacerbate other risks. These risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our risk profile.

Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Risks:

Cyberattacks, including acts of war or terrorism, targeted directly on or indirectly affecting our systems or the systems of third parties on which we rely, could severely impair operations, negatively impact our business, lead to the disclosure of confidential information and adversely affect our reputation.

A successful cyberattack on the information technology systems that control our transmission, distribution, gas and water systems or other assets could impair or prevent us from managing these systems and facilities, operating our systems effectively, or properly managing our data, networks and programs. The breach of certain information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and to repair system damage or security breaches and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to our reputation.

We have instituted safeguards to protect our information technology systems and assets. We deployed substantial technologies to system and application security, encryption and other measures to protect our computer systems and infrastructure from unauthorized access or misuse. We also interface with numerous external entities to improve our cybersecurity situational awareness. The FERC, through the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), requires certain safeguards to be implemented to deter cyberattacks. These safeguards may not always be effective due to the evolving nature of cyberattacks. We maintain cyber insurance to cover damages and defense costs related to breaches of networks or operational technology, but it may be insufficient to cover all losses.

Any such cyberattacks could result in loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

The unauthorized access to and the misappropriation of confidential and proprietary customer, employee, financial or system operating information could adversely affect our business operations and adversely impact our reputation.

In the regular course of business, we, and our third-party suppliers, maintain sensitive customer, employee, financial and system operating information. We are required by various federal and state laws to safeguard this information. Cyber intrusions, security breaches, theft or loss of this information by cybercrime or otherwise could lead to the release of critical operating information or confidential customer or employee information, which could adversely affect our business operations or adversely impact our reputation, and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation. We maintain cyber insurance to cover damages and defense costs arising from unauthorized disclosure of, or failure to protect, private information, as well as costs for notification to, or for credit monitoring of, customers, employees and other persons in the event of a breach of private information. This insurance covers amounts paid to avert, prevent or stop a network attack or the disclosure of personal information, and costs of a qualified forensics firm to determine the cause, source and extent of a network attack or to investigate, examine and analyze our network to find the cause, source and extent of a data breach, but it may be insufficient to cover all losses. While we have implemented measures designed to prevent network attacks and mitigate their effects should they occur, these measures may not be effective due to the continually evolving nature of efforts to access confidential information.

Pandemic Risks, including COVID-19 Related Risks:

As evidenced by the global pandemic of the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19), global pandemics result in widespread disruption to the overall economic market and outlook, which could cause various unfavorable impacts to our customers, vendors, employees, regulators, and operations and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

We continue to respond to COVID-19 by taking steps to mitigate the potential risks to Eversource posed by its spread. We provide a critical service to our customers, which means it is paramount that we keep our employees who operate our businesses safe, and minimize unnecessary risk of exposure to COVID-19. We have updated and implemented our company-wide pandemic plan to address specific aspects of the COVID-19 pandemic. This plan guides our emergency response, business continuity, and the precautionary measures we are taking on behalf of employees and our customers.

•Cybersecurity attacks: We, as well as others in the power and utility industry, have continued to experience significant events where outside parties, utilizing sophisticated methods, have attempted to compromise both our vendors and employees to try to gain access to our email systems, as well as attempting to access our other systems or networks. Eversource was not affected by the SolarWinds event. We continue to implement strong cybersecurity measures and have increased the education of our employees and contractors to ensure that our systems remain functional in order to both serve our operational needs with a remote workforce and to ensure uninterrupted service to our customers. Our incident response team works with compromised vendors to assist them in improving their security posture. We also continuously review and update our response plans to include responding to an event while in a remote work environment.

16

•Access to, or cost of, capital resources: We utilize the commercial paper market extensively for our short-term borrowing needs. At the onset of the pandemic in the United States, liquidity in the commercial paper credit market began to deteriorate rapidly. However, federal legislative actions, including actions taken by the Federal Reserve, have provided sufficient liquidity and stabilization of the credit markets. We continue to monitor the ability for us to access the global capital and credit markets; however, if we are unable to access these markets, then our financial condition may be adversely affected. We have had open, full access to the capital markets throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.

•Actions of regulators: We continue to work closely with our state regulatory commissions and consumer advocates on customer assistance measures, including payment plan options in order to mitigate the impact on customer rates in the future, as well as financial hardship and arrearage management programs for those customers who are unable to pay their utility bills. We developed these long-term solutions for customers in order to help minimize the extent of the impact of COVID-19 on customer receivable balances and customers’ affordability in light of the current financial impact they may experience. We believe that we have in place, or are developing, successful mechanisms with our state regulatory commissions to recover our incremental costs associated with COVID-19, while balancing the impact on our customers’ bills and our operating cash flows, however our financial condition may be adversely affected depending on the outcome of planned proceedings before our state regulatory commissions.

•Timing of strategic development opportunities: The successful execution of our timeline for developing our offshore wind projects is based on several factors, including state and federal siting and permitting approvals. We implemented, and continue to update, mitigation plans that addressed permitting delays due to COVID-19 work restrictions between March and June 2020 that resulted in a moderate impact to our offshore wind projects siting and permit filing timelines. However, we are unable to assess the potential impact that a reintroduction of work restrictions in response to a future resurgence in COVID-19 infections would have on our projects’ timelines. 

•Suppliers and Vendors: We have instituted measures to ensure our supply chain remains open to us; however, there could be global shortages that will impact our maintenance, capital programs, and storm response that we currently cannot anticipate.

•Loss of key personnel: We continue to adjust our pandemic plan to address various scenarios including reduced workforce levels and limited mutual aid in the event of a significant storm event. We have implemented remote work arrangements for our workforce by enabling nearly half of our employees to work from home and taking extra precautions for our field-based employees. We have taken significant safety measures to ensure adequate social distancing for our field crews to safely provide essential services to our customers. We have also adopted protocols to ensure the safety and health of those employees who work onsite in critical facilities. We continue to monitor COVID-19 developments affecting our workforce and will take additional precautions that we determine are necessary in order to mitigate the impacts. Although to date our workforce continues to be able to safely and reliably deliver our critical services to customers, we are unable to predict the extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our employees.

The extent of the impact to us in the future will vary and depend in large part on the duration, scope and severity of the pandemic and the timing and extent of COVID-19 relief legislation, and the resulting impact on economic, health care and capital market conditions. The future impact will also depend on the outcome of planned proceedings before our state regulatory commissions to recover our incremental costs associated with COVID-19, which include uncollectible customer receivable expenses. As a result, we are currently unable to estimate the potential impact of COVID-19 to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Business Risks:

Strategic development opportunities associated with offshore wind or investment opportunities in electric transmission or clean-energy opportunities may not be successful, and projects may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects.

We are pursuing broader strategic development investment opportunities that will benefit the Northeast region related to the construction of offshore wind electric generation facilities, and investment opportunities in electric transmission facilities and other clean-energy infrastructure. The development of these activities involves numerous significant risks around schedule, cost, capacity factors, tax strategies and permitting (both on and offshore). Various external factors could result in increased costs or result in delays or cancellation of these projects. Risks include federal, state and local regulatory approval processes, new legislation impacting the industry, changes to federal income tax laws, economic events or factors, environmental and community concerns, design and siting issues, difficulties in obtaining required rights of way, competition from incumbent utilities and other entities, and actions of our strategic partners. Should any of these factors result in significant delays or cancellations, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, or our future growth opportunities may not be realized as anticipated.

Eversource has a joint and equal partnership with Ørsted for the development and operation of three offshore wind projects. Offshore wind is currently an emerging industry in the U.S., but it has a very robust operational and construction history in Europe. As such, siting, permitting, tax legislation, and supply chain are currently being addressed for the first time in the U.S. The projects currently being developed by our partnership may not achieve the results we anticipate. The partnership’s ability to generate revenue from offshore wind projects depends on meeting our construction schedules, controlling cost overruns, maintaining continuing interconnection arrangements, power purchase agreements, or other market mechanisms as well as interconnecting utility and Regional Transmission Organizations rules, policies, procedures and FERC tariffs that permit future offshore wind project operations. After projects are placed in operation, capacity factors will directly affect revenues generated from these investments. Other factors that may have an adverse impact on our anticipated project returns include significant schedule delays resulting from federal, state or local permitting processes. Specifically, the approval from the BOEM is a critical path item in the projects' timeline. Any changes to tax laws or to Eversource’s ability to monetize tax attributes associated with these projects could also have a material adverse effect on cash flows and project returns.

17

As a result of legislative and regulatory changes, the states in which we provide service have implemented new selection procedures for new major electric transmission, offshore wind and other clean energy facilities. These procedures require the review of competing projects and permit the selection of only those projects that are expected to provide the greatest benefit to customers. If the projects in which we have invested are not selected for construction, or even if our projects are selected, then legislative or regulatory actions could result in our projects not being probable of entering the construction phase, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

We outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations.

We outsource certain services to third parties in areas including information technology, transaction processing, human resources, payroll and payroll processing and certain operational areas. As a result of our acquisition of the Columbia Gas of Massachusetts (CMA) assets from NiSource on October 9, 2020, we have entered into a Transition Services Agreement with NiSource whereby NiSource is performing certain services on behalf of our newly formed Eversource Gas Company of Massachusetts in the areas of information technology, transaction processing, human resources, payroll and payroll processing and certain operational areas for periods ranging from 1 to 24 months. Outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to substandard quality of service delivery or substandard deliverables, which may result in missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards) or reputational harm, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We also continue to pursue enhancements to standardize our systems and processes. If any difficulties in the operation of these systems were to occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, or adversely affect our ability to work with regulators, unions, customers or employees.

Our transmission and distribution systems may not operate as expected, and could require unplanned expenditures, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our ability to properly operate our transmission and distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our business. Our transmission and distribution businesses face several operational risks, including the breakdown, failure of, or damage to operating equipment, information technology systems, or processes, especially due to age; labor disputes; disruptions in the delivery of electricity, natural gas and water; increased capital expenditure requirements, including those due to environmental regulation; catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, a solar event, an electromagnetic event, or other similar occurrences; extreme weather conditions beyond equipment and plant design capacity; human error; and potential claims for property damage or personal injuries beyond the scope of our insurance coverage. Many of our transmission projects are expected to alleviate identified reliability issues and reduce customers' costs. However, if the in-service date for one or more of these projects is delayed due to economic events or factors, or regulatory or other delays, the risk of failures in the electric transmission system may increase. Any failure of our transmission and distribution systems to operate as planned may result in increased capital costs, reduced earnings or unplanned increases in operation and maintenance costs. The inability to recover a significant amount of such costs could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

New technology and alternative energy sources could adversely affect our operations and financial results.

Advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in loss of market share and customers, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive. These changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize energy, which could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses. Economic downturns or periods of high energy supply costs typically can lead to the development of legislative and regulatory policy designed to promote reductions in energy consumption and increased energy efficiency and self-generation by customers.

The loss of key personnel, the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, or the failure to maintain a positive relationship with our workforce could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.

Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our employees. Retaining key employees and maintaining the ability to attract new employees are important to both our operational and financial performance. We cannot guarantee that any member of our management or any key employee at the Eversource parent or subsidiary level will continue to serve in any capacity for any particular period of time. In addition, a significant portion of our workforce in our subsidiaries, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electric, natural gas and water infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five to ten years. Such highly skilled individuals cannot be quickly replaced due to the technically complex work they perform. We have developed strategic workforce plans to identify key functions and proactively implement plans to assure a ready and qualified workforce, but we cannot predict the impact of these plans on our ability to hire and retain key employees. Labor disputes, work stoppages or an inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on commercially reasonable terms, as well as the intentional misconduct of employees or contractors, may also have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.

Risks Related to the Environment and Catastrophic Events:

The effects of climate change, including severe storms, could cause significant damage to any of our facilities requiring extensive expenditures, the recovery for which is subject to approval by regulators.

Climate change creates physical and financial risks to our operations. Physical risks from climate change may include an increase in sea levels and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation and extreme weather events including drought. Customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use. For water customers, conservation measures imposed by the communities we serve could impact water usage. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers’ energy and water usage could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes.

18

Severe weather, such as ice and snow storms, hurricanes, droughts, and other natural disasters, may cause outages and property damage, which may require us to incur additional costs that may not be recoverable from customers. The cost of repairing damage to our operating subsidiaries' facilities and the potential disruption of their operations due to storms, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could be substantial, particularly as regulators and customers demand better and quicker response times to outages. If, upon review, any of our state regulatory authorities finds that our actions were imprudent, some of those restoration costs may not be recoverable from customers. The inability to recover a significant amount of such costs could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain property insurance, but it may be insufficient to cover all losses.

Contamination of our water supplies, the failure of dams on reservoirs providing water to our customers, or requirements to repair, upgrade or dismantle any of these dams, may disrupt our ability to distribute water to our customers and result in substantial additional costs, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Our water supplies, including water provided to our customers, are subject to possible contamination from naturally occurring compounds or man-made substances.

Our water systems include impounding dams and reservoirs of various sizes. Although we believe our dams are structurally sound and well-maintained, significant damage to these facilities, or a significant decrease in the water in our reservoirs, could adversely affect our ability to provide water to our customers until the facilities and a sufficient amount of water in our reservoirs can be restored. A failure of a dam could result in personal injuries and downstream property damage for which we may be liable. The failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers. Any losses or liabilities incurred due to a failure of one of our dams may not be recoverable in rates and may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain liability insurance, but it may be insufficient to cover all losses.

Physical attacks, including acts of war or terrorism, both threatened and actual, could adversely affect our ability to operate our systems and could adversely affect our financial results and liquidity.

Physical attacks, including acts of war or terrorism, both threatened and actual, that damage our transmission and distribution systems or other assets could negatively impact our ability to transmit or distribute energy, water, natural gas, or operate our systems efficiently or at all. Because our electric transmission systems are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of widespread blackouts due to grid disturbances or disruptions on a neighboring interconnected system. Similarly, our natural gas distribution system is connected to transmission pipelines, not owned by Eversource. If there was an attack on the transmission pipelines, it could impact our ability to deliver natural gas. If our assets were physically damaged and were not recovered in a timely manner, it could result in a loss of service to customers, a significant decrease in revenues, significant expense to repair system damage, costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks, and liability claims, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain property and liability insurance, but it may be insufficient to cover all losses.

Regulatory, Legislative and Compliance Risks:

The actions of regulators and legislators could significantly impact our ability to recover costs in a timely manner and can affect our earnings and liquidity. 

The rates that our electric, natural gas and water companies charge their customers are determined by their state regulatory commissions and by the FERC. These commissions also regulate the companies' accounting, operations, the issuance of certain securities and certain other matters. The FERC also regulates the transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at wholesale, accounting, issuance of certain securities and certain other matters, including reliability standards through NERC.

Under state and federal law, our electric, natural gas and water companies are entitled to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their prudently incurred operating and capital costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests. Each of these companies prepares and submits periodic rate filings with their respective regulatory commissions for review and approval, which allows for various entities to challenge our current or future rates, structures or mechanisms and could alter or limit the rates we are allowed to charge our customers and may not match the timing of when costs are incurred. Additionally, catastrophic events at other utilities could result in our regulators and legislators imposing additional requirements that may lead to additional costs for the Company.

There is no assurance that regulators will approve the recovery of all costs incurred by our electric, natural gas and water companies, including costs for construction, operation and maintenance, as well as a reasonable return on their respective regulated assets. The amount of costs incurred by the companies, coupled with increases in fuel and energy prices, could lead to consumer or regulatory resistance to the timely recovery of such costs, thereby adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

The FERC has jurisdiction over our transmission costs recovery and our allowed ROEs. Certain outside parties have filed four complaints against all electric companies under the jurisdiction of ISO-NE alleging that our allowed ROEs are unjust and unreasonable. An adverse decision in any of these four complaints could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

FERC's policy has encouraged competition for transmission projects, even within existing service territories of electric companies. Implementation of FERC's goals, including within our service territories, may expose us to competition for construction of transmission projects, additional regulatory considerations, and potential delay with respect to future transmission projects, which may adversely affect our results of operations and lower rate base growth.

19

Changes in tax laws, as well as the potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact our business, results of operations (including our expected project returns from our planned offshore wind facilities), financial condition and cash flows.

We are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to increased regulatory oversight or other sanctions.

Because utility companies, including our electric, natural gas and water utility subsidiaries, have large customer bases, they are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to electric outages, natural gas leaks and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events. Adverse publicity of this nature could harm our reputation and the reputation of our subsidiaries; may make state legislatures, utility commissions and other regulatory authorities less likely to view us in a favorable light; and may cause us to be subject to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight. Unfavorable regulatory outcomes can include more stringent laws and regulations governing our operations, such as reliability and customer service quality standards or vegetation management requirements, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements.

Costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those related to climate change, may increase and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Our subsidiaries' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations that govern, among other things, water quality, water discharges, the management of hazardous and solid waste, and air emissions. Compliance with these requirements requires us to incur significant costs relating to environmental monitoring, maintenance and upgrading of facilities, remediation and permitting.

The costs of compliance with existing legal requirements or legal requirements not yet adopted may increase in the future. An increase in such costs, unless promptly recovered, could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

For further information, see Item 1, Business - Other Regulatory and Environmental Matters, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Financial, Economic, and Market Risks:

Our goodwill is recorded at an amount that, if impaired and written down, could adversely affect our future operating results and total capitalization.

We have a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which, as of December 31, 2020, totaled $4.4 billion. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. We test our goodwill balances for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events occur, or circumstances change that would indicate a potential for impairment. A determination that goodwill is deemed to be impaired would result in a non-cash charge that could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and total capitalization. The annual goodwill impairment test in 2020 resulted in a conclusion that our goodwill was not impaired.

Our counterparties may not meet their obligations to us or may elect to exercise their termination rights, which could adversely affect our earnings.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements that owe us money, have contracted to supply us with energy or other commodities or services, or that work with us as strategic partners, including on significant capital projects, will not be able to perform their obligations, will terminate such arrangements or, with respect to our credit facilities, fail to honor their commitments. Should any of these counterparties fail to perform their obligations or terminate such arrangements, we might be forced to replace the underlying commitment at higher market prices and/or have to delay the completion of, or cancel, a capital project. Should any lenders under our credit facilities fail to perform, the level of borrowing capacity under those arrangements could decrease. In any such events, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected.

Limits on our access to, or increases in, the cost of capital may adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan.

We use short-term debt and the long-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not obtained from our operating cash flow. If access to these sources of liquidity becomes constrained, our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected. In addition, higher interest rates would increase our cost of borrowing, which could adversely impact our results of operations. A downgrade of our credit ratings or events beyond our control, such as a disruption in global capital and credit markets, could increase our cost of borrowing and cost of capital or restrict our ability to access the capital markets and negatively affect our ability to maintain and to expand our businesses.

Market performance or changes in assumptions may require us to make significant contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans.

We provide a defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement benefits for a substantial number of employees, former employees and retirees. Our future pension obligations, costs and liabilities are highly dependent on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include estimated investment returns, interest rates, discount rates, health care cost trends, benefit changes, salary increases and the demographics of plan participants. If our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our future costs could increase significantly. In addition, various factors, including underperformance of plan investments and changes in law or regulation, could increase the amount of contributions required to fund our pension plan in the future. Additional large funding requirements, when combined with the financing requirements of our construction 

20

program, could impact the timing, amounts, and number of future financings and negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

As a holding company with no revenue-generating operations, Eversource parent's liquidity is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries, its commercial paper program, and its ability to access the long-term debt and equity capital markets.

Eversource parent is a holding company and as such, has no revenue-generating operations of its own. Its ability to meet its debt service obligations and to pay dividends on its common shares is largely dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to, or repay borrowings from, Eversource parent, and/or Eversource parent's ability to access its commercial paper program or the long-term debt and equity capital markets. Prior to funding Eversource parent, the subsidiary companies have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their operating expenses, debt service, preferred dividends of certain subsidiaries, and obligations to trade creditors. Should the subsidiary companies not be able to pay dividends or repay funds due to Eversource parent, or if Eversource parent cannot access its commercial paper programs or the long-term debt and equity capital markets, Eversource parent's ability to pay interest, dividends and its own debt obligations would be restricted.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

We do not have any unresolved SEC staff comments.

Item 2. Properties