Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Cash and marketable securities are deposited with major banks throughout the world. Such deposits are placed with high quality institutions and the amounts invested in any single institution are limited to the extent possible in order to minimize concentration of counterparty credit risk. Marketable securities may consist of time deposits, registered money market funds, U.S. agency securities, U.S. Treasury securities, commercial paper, non-U.S. government securities and corporate debt securities. We have not incurred any credit risk losses related to deposits in cash or investments in marketable securities.

Certain of our contracts are subject to foreign currency risk. We limit exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in most of our engineering and construction contracts through provisions that require client payments in currencies corresponding to the currency in which cost is incurred. As a result, we generally do not need to hedge foreign currency cash flows for contract work performed. However, in cases where revenue and expenses are not denominated in the same currency, we may hedge our exposure, if material and if an efficient market exists, as discussed below.

We utilize derivative instruments to mitigate certain financial exposures, including currency and oil price risk associated with engineering and construction contracts, currency risk associated with monetary assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and risk associated with interest rate volatility. As of December 31, 2020, we had total gross notional amounts of $977 million of foreign currency contracts (primarily related to the Canadian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, British Pound, Euro, Indian Rupee and Philippine Peso) and $28 million of commodity contracts. The foreign currency and commodity contracts are of varying duration, none of which extend beyond December 2024. Our historical gains and losses associated with foreign currency contracts have typically been immaterial, and have largely mitigated the exposures being hedged. We do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes.

Our results reported by foreign subsidiaries with non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are also affected by foreign currency volatility. When the U.S. dollar appreciates against the non-U.S. dollar functional currencies of these subsidiaries, our reported revenue, cost and earnings, after translation into U.S. dollars, are lower than what they would have been had the U.S. dollar depreciated against the same foreign currencies or if there had been no change in the exchange rates.

46
Our long-term debt obligations typically carry a fixed-rate coupon, and therefore, our exposure to interest rate risk is not material.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data