ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have market risk exposure arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements. We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but we currently expect the counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

A substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the U.S. dollar, are the Argentine peso, Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan, Colombian peso, Euro, Hungarian forint, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Singapore dollar, Swedish krona, Russian ruble, Malaysian ringgit and Venezuelan bolivar. Almost all of our non-U.S. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. Foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-U.S. subsidiary’s functional currency. We have designated €336.3 million of our 1.25% EUR Senior Notes due 2022 as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the Euro as their functional currency. On September 22, 2020, as a means of managing the volatility of foreign currency exposure with the Euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate, we entered into a swap associated with our Euro investment in certain of our international subsidiaries and was designated as a net investment hedge. As of December 31, 2020, the notional value of the swap was €163.2 million. Routinely, we review our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. We realized net gains (losses) associated with foreign currency translation of $0.4 million, $6.6 million and $(63.1) million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which are included in other comprehensive income (loss). The net gain in 2020 was primarily driven by the strengthening of the Euro, Chinese yuan, British pound and Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2020 as compared with December 31, 2019.

We employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. Where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. Our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures. As of December 31, 2020, we had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $388.1 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in foreign exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $398.5 million at December 31, 2019. Transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites’ functional currencies and changes in fair value of foreign exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. We recognized foreign currency net losses of $5.9 million, $14.5 million and $18.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which are included in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. 

Based on a sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2020, a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2020 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $15 million. At December 31, 2019, a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2019 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $17 million. This calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the U.S. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-U.S. dollar sales volumes or prices. This calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. 

55

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA