PART I

ITEM 1.BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

Flowserve Corporation is a world leading manufacturer and aftermarket service provider of comprehensive flow control systems. Flowserve Corporation as it exists today was created in 1997 through the merger of two leading fluid motion and control companies — BW/IP and Durco International. Under the name of a predecessor entity, we were incorporated in the State of New York on May 1, 1912, but some of our heritage product brand names date back to our founding in 1790. Over the years, we have evolved through organic growth and strategic acquisitions, and our over 225-year history of Flowserve heritage brands serves as the foundation for the breadth and depth of our products and services today. Unless the context otherwise indicates, references to "Flowserve," "the Company" and such words as "we," "our" and "us" include Flowserve Corporation and its subsidiaries.

We develop and manufacture precision-engineered flow control equipment integral to the movement, control and protection of the flow of materials in our customers’ critical processes. Our product portfolio of pumps, valves, seals, automation and aftermarket services supports global infrastructure industries, including oil and gas, chemical, power generation (including nuclear, fossil and renewable) and water management, as well as certain general industrial markets where our products and services add value. Through our manufacturing platform and global network of Quick Response Centers ("QRCs"), we offer a broad array of aftermarket equipment services, such as installation, advanced diagnostics, repair and retrofitting. 

We sell our products and services to more than 10,000 companies, including some of the world’s leading engineering, procurement and construction firms ("EPC"), original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. Our products and services are used in several distinct industries having a broad geographic reach. Our bookings mix by industry in 2020 and 2019 consisted of:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)General industries include mining and ore processing, pulp and paper, food and beverage and other smaller applications, as well as sales to distributors whose end customers typically operate in the industries we primarily serve. 

(2)Chemical industry is comprised of chemical-based and pharmaceutical products. 

Demand for most of our products depends on the level of new capital investment as well as planned and unplanned maintenance expenditures by our customers. The level of new capital investment depends, in turn, on capital infrastructure projects driven by the need for products that rely on oil and gas, chemicals, power generation and water resource management, as well as general economic conditions. These drivers are generally related to the phase of the business cycle in their respective industries and the expectations of future market behavior. The levels of maintenance expenditures are additionally driven by the reliability of equipment, planned and unplanned downtime for maintenance and the required capacity utilization of the process.

Sales to EPC firms and original equipment manufacturers are typically for large project orders and critical applications, as are certain sales to distributors. Project orders are typically procured for customers either directly from us or indirectly through contractors for new construction projects or facility enhancement projects.

The quick turnaround business, which we also refer to as "short-cycle," is defined as orders that are received from the customer (booked) and shipped generally within six months of receipt. These orders are typically for more standardized, general purpose products, parts or services. Each of our two business segments generate certain levels of this type of business.

In the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from a large installed base of our original equipment, which requires periodic maintenance, repair and replacement parts. We use our manufacturing platform and global network of QRCs to offer a broad array of aftermarket equipment services, such as installation, advanced diagnostics, repair and 

1

retrofitting. In geographic regions where we are positioned to provide quick response, we believe customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products due to our highly engineered and customized products. However, the aftermarket for standard products is competitive, as the existence of common standards allows for easier replacement of the installed products. As proximity of service centers, timeliness of delivery and quality are important considerations for all aftermarket products and services, we continue to selectively expand our global QRC capabilities to improve our ability to capture this important aftermarket business.

We have pursued a strategy of industry diversity and geographic breadth to mitigate the impact on our business of normal economic downturns in any one of the industries or in any particular part of the world we serve. For events that may occur and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, refer to "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 ("Annual Report"). For information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" ("Item 8") of this Annual Report. 

Our segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. All segments share certain resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("R&D"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. 

Our operations leadership reports to our Chief Executive Officer and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as R&D, marketing and supply chain. We believe this leadership structure positions the Company to leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase in shareholder value. 

 Strategies 

Our overarching objectives are to be a leader in each of the market segments we serve and become the employer of choice in the flow control industry. Additionally, we seek to be recognized by our customers as the most trusted brand of flow control technology in terms of reliability and quality, which we believe will help maximize shareholder value.

In pursuit of these objectives, we maintain a rolling, five-year strategic plan that takes a balanced approach to integrating both short-term and long-term initiatives in four key areas: People, Process & Technology, Customer and Finance.

People

With the goal of developing and maintaining a people-first culture, we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: (i) fully committing to providing a safe work environment for our associates, worldwide, (ii) upholding a high-performance workforce, that is empowered, accountable and flexible, (iii) becoming an employer of choice by fostering a people-first culture and (iv) recruiting, developing and retaining a global and diverse workforce.

Process and Technology

With the goal of improving our productivity and delivering a continuous stream of innovative solutions to our customers, we focus on select strategies relating to: (i) developing and maintaining an enterprise-first business approach across all operating units and functional organizations, (ii) simplifying our business processes and optimizing corporate structural costs, (iii) significantly reducing our product cost and rationalizing our product portfolio and (iv) becoming the technical leader in the flow control industry.

Customer

With the goal of achieving the highest level of customer satisfaction amongst our peers, we focus on select strategies related to rigorous and disciplined selection of target markets and customers, while maintaining competitive lead times and emphasizing the highest levels of on-time delivery and quality. We seek to provide an outstanding experience for our customers over the entire product lifecycle by providing unique, integrated flow-control solutions that solve real-world application problems in our customers’ facilities. 

Finance

2

With the goal of growing the value of our enterprise, we focus on select strategies we believe will increase our revenue above the rate of market growth, while optimizing performance in terms of gross margin, selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense, operating margin, cash flow and primary working capital. 

Flowserve 2.0 Transformation

In 2018 we launched and committed resources to our Flowserve 2.0 Transformation ("Flowserve 2.0 Transformation"), a program designed to transform our business model to drive operational excellence, reduce complexity, accelerate growth, expand margins, increase capital efficiency and improve organizational health. The goals of the Flowserve 2.0 Transformation are to (i) accelerate revenue growth, (ii) drive margin expansion, (iii) increase capital efficiency and (iv) improve organizational health. The Flowserve 2.0 Transformation consists of individual projects spread over six work-streams (operations, commercial, growth, aftermarket, cost structure and working capital). The projects include elements of organizational design, business process definition, process automation and metrics, and operational footprint optimization. Individual projects vary in terms of time to execute, ranging from one year for simple quick-fix efforts to five years for more complex infrastructure efforts. Structured processes are created to ensure that each project followed common milestones and delivered value over its lifecycle, with a governance process that oversaw the portfolio to ensure that time-phased trade-offs between cost and benefits are proactively managed. For further discussion of the Flowserve 2.0 Transformation program refer to Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Seasonality 

Our financial results are traditionally seasonal during the year as we typically experience lower earnings in the first quarter of the year, with lower sales, coupled with fixed operating expenses, impacting our earnings and cash flows. We typically have higher sales, earnings and cash flows in the second half of the year with the fourth quarter being the strongest. Given that certain of our operating expenses are fixed, fluctuations in sales volumes from quarter to quarter may affect operating income for the respective quarters.

Competition

Despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, project management, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. In the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. Industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. We expect pricing for original equipment orders to continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. The unique competitive environments in our business segments are discussed in more detail under the “Business Segments” heading below.

In the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against other large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies. In the oil and gas and chemical industries, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers’ own in-house capabilities. In the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "N Stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, as well as our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. Aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products.

In the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. Timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. In geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area.

Generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. Although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. While the majority of these 

3

agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. We also utilize our LifeCycle Advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers’ aftermarket requirements. These programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer’s installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer.

Our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. Our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. We continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. In the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer’s specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. After the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer’s site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. Our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors’ products, within the installed base. This value is further enhanced by the global reach of our QRCs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers’ flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital and operating expenditure cycles. 

Customers

We sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading EPC firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. We do not have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2020 revenues. Customer information relating to each of our business segments is discussed in more detail under the "Business Segments" heading below. 

We are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. We typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. While we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. We manage inventory more stringently and intensively during challenging cycles by actively managing and applying discrete measures to reduce inventory levels based on current demand and visibility of shipments, with the overall target at improving our operational effectiveness and reduce our overall working capital needs. 

Selling and Distribution

We primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. In addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force where it is more economically efficient. We generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals.

Intellectual Property

We own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. We consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. In addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. Accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. We generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. In limited circumstances, we have entered into agreements to license intellectual property. The operational and financial terms of these agreements are not material. Our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 10 to 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. We do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Raw Materials

The principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. A substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. 

4

We continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. We continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics.

Metal castings used in the manufacture of our pump, valve, and mechanical seals are purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. We remain vertically integrated with metal castings in certain strategic product families. 

Concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. Supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future.

Human Capital Management 

Our associates worldwide are critical to delivering on our purpose to create extraordinary flow control solutions. As a global manufacturer, our values start with our people - we strive to create a collaborative team environment that enables us to develop each other, embrace our differences and respect one another. 

As of December 31, 2020, we have approximately 16,000 employees (“associates”) globally and a footprint of manufacturing facilities and Quick Response Centers in more than 50 countries. Of our global associates, there are approximately 3,500 in the Flowserve Pump Division ("FPD"), 3,500 in the Flow Control Division ("FCD") and 4,500 supporting the aftermarket sales and services business across both divisions. The remaining 4,500 associates support core business functions including legal, human resources, information technology, finance, commercial operations and sales, global engineering operations and marketing and technology operations. Regionally, approximately 5,000 of our associates are in North America, approximately 1,600 of our associates are in Latin America, approximately 5,900 of our associates are in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and approximately 3,500 of our associates are in Asia Pacific. Our workforce is made up of approximately 9,000 salaried employees and 7,000 hourly employees. 

We are committed to achieving business success with integrity at the forefront. All of our associates and our Board of Directors are governed by our Code of Conduct as we continuously work together to improve our operations by fostering a work environment that supports employee health, safety, training, development, diversity, equity and inclusion. In order to create that environment, members of management work together to identify areas of opportunity and develop and implement various policies, procedures, and initiatives in these key areas. Members of management also provide quarterly (or more frequent, as needed) updates to our Board of Directors, who provide additional input and guidance to management. Additionally, we conduct annual employee engagement surveys to solicit feedback and input directly from our associates. In 2020, more than 80% of our associates participated in our employee engagement survey. Based on the results of our surveys, management and our Board of Directors work together to create additional action plans as appropriate. 

Workplace Health and Safety:  We strive to create and maintain a safe working environment, empowering our employees to identify and report safety concerns and act to correct hazards. Our focus on safety and environmental protection has led to meaningful reductions in workplace safety incidents, emissions to the environment, and solid waste and hazardous waste generation at our facilities worldwide.

Compensation and Benefits: We maintain a market-based compensation strategy that provides a competitive total target compensation opportunity for our associates. We also value the health and well-being of our associates and offer competitive overall benefits, health and wellness programs tailored to the specific localized needs of our employees. We offer a global employee assistance program to support the mental health and wellness needs our employees, as well as physical health incentives aimed at creating healthy lives for our employees and their families.  

Training, Development and Ethics: Developing our people is an essential aspect of the Flowserve journey. Flowserve believes that development is a continuous process. We offer developmental opportunities to help our associates build the skills needed to reach their short-term and long-term career goals, including but not limited to on-the-job training, online learning, rotational programs, professional memberships, language learning and leadership and management training. To help our associates see how their work contributes to overall Company objectives and successes, management utilize a robust performance management system and provide regular feedback in order to develop talent and foster engagement.  

Recognizing that our associates are our most valuable resource in achieving operational excellence, we have instituted broad Continuous Improvement Process ("CIP") training initiatives, certifying or training our employees as 

5

"black belts" or "green belts" and deploying them to CIP led projects throughout the Company. As a result, we have developed and implemented processes to shorten engineering and manufacturing cycle times, improve on-time delivery and service response time, lower inventory levels and otherwise reduce costs. To date, over 800 of our employees are CIP certified. 

Environmental Regulations and Proceedings 

We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. These requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. We periodically make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. At present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. However, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. Based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. Most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. During the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. We are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. We have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues.

Over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("PRP") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. We are currently involved as a PRP at four Superfund sites. The sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. Our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these four sites is expected to be immaterial. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" included in this Annual Report for more information.

We have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities.

Exports

Our export sales from the U.S. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $264.6 million in 2020, $300.9 million in 2019 and $234.3 million in 2018.

Licenses are required from U.S. and other government agencies to export certain products. In particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

We report a two operating segment structure, consisting of our Flowserve Pumps Division and our Flow Control Division. In addition to the business segment information presented below, Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2020, 2019 and 2018.

FLOWSERVE PUMP DIVISION

Our largest business segment is FPD, through which we design, manufacture, pre-test, distribute and service specialty and highly-engineered custom and pre-configured pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and upgrades and related aftermarket services (collectively referred to as "aftermarket"). FPD products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. We market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and our regional QRCs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. A portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to other original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into their rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals.

6

Our pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to reliably meet the operating requirements of our customers. Mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. We also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. Our products are currently manufactured in 39 manufacturing facilities worldwide, 13 of which are located in Europe, 12 in North America, eight in Asia Pacific and six in Latin America, and we have 137 QRCs, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities and/or shared with FCD.

We also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. We have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in Chile, China, India, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and the United Arab Emirates, where a portion of our products are manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. These relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support best-cost sourcing initiatives and balance capacity demands for other markets.

FPD Products

We manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. The following is a summary list of our FPD product types and globally recognized brands:

FPD Product Types

Single and Multistage Between Bearings Pumps Single Stage Overhung Pumps

• Single Case — Axially Split • API Process

• Single Case — Radially Split  

• Double Case 

Overhung PumpsBetween Bearings Pumps

• Chemical Process ASME and ISO• Single Case — Radially Split

• Industrial Process• Side Channel Multistage

• Slurry and Solids Handling• Split Case — Axially Split

• Metallic & Lined Magnetic Drive Process• Split Case — Radially Split

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FPD Brand Names

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FPD Services 

We market our pump products through our worldwide sales force, regional service and repair centers, independent distributors and sales representatives. We also provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 137 QRCs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 48 countries. Our FPD service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning services, seal systems spare parts, repairs, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and upgrade solutions and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. We provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. A large portion of FPD’s service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets.

FPD New Product Development 

Our investments in new product R&D continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow and power) and under more extreme conditions (i.e., erosive, corrosive and temperature) beyond the level of traditional technology. We will invest in our product platform to expand and enhance our products offered to the global chemical industry. We continue to develop innovations that improve our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically upstream, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. Continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through the completion of advancements that significantly improve energy efficiency, reduce total cost-of-ownership and enhance safety. 

8

As new sources of energy generation are explored, we continue to develop new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. New designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the coal fired, combined cycle, small modular nuclear and concentrated solar power generation plant. 

We continue to address our core products with design enhancements that improve performance, reduce costs, extend operating life between required maintenance periods and reduce the lead times in which we can deliver our products. Our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. Additionally, we are incentivizing our operations and tracking the R&D projects more closely, which is leading to broader engagement in developing new products. 

We continue to advance our capabilities and technology position in the rapidly developing segment known as the Industrial Internet of Things ("IIoT"). Over the past few years we have continued to both invest and partner in this space to build remote monitoring solutions, as well as advanced equipment diagnostics in order to provide remote asset management and related services capabilities for our end-user customers. These technologies include delivering intelligent “edge” devices, advanced networking infrastructure and secure communication and security protocols, secure data management, and remote monitoring and reporting for our customers. In addition, we have moved beyond exploring new additive manufacturing capabilities, such as 3D printing and fast casting methods, and are looking for ways to economically scale these techniques as another means of manufacturing our products to both reduce lead time and lower our production costs.

None of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material to our business.

FPD Customers

Our customer mix is diversified and includes leading EPC firms, major national oil companies, international oil companies, equipment end users in our served markets, other original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. Our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. Our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries.

FPD Competition

The pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with thousands of competitors globally. We compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. There are also a number of smaller, newer entrants in some of our emerging markets. Competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, application knowledge, experience, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. Some of our largest industry competitors include: Sulzer Pumps; Ebara Corp.; SPX FLOW, Inc.; Eagle Burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, A. W. Chesterton Co. and AES Corp.; John Crane Inc., a unit of Smiths Group Plc; Weir Group Plc.; ITT Industries; and KSB SE & Co. KGaA.

The pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers’ preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. Despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. 

We believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our high technology, our more than 225 years of experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer’s request.

FPD Backlog

FPD’s backlog of orders as of December 31, 2020 was $1,236.9 million, compared with $1,560.9 million as of December 31, 2019. We expect to recognize revenue on approximately 90% of December 31, 2020 backlog during 2021. 

9

FLOW CONTROL DIVISION

FCD designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of flow control solutions, including engineered and industrial valve and automation systems, isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. FCD leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. FCD products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids, gases and multi-phase fluids, and are a critical part of any flow control system. Our valve and automation products are based on flexible architecture that can be customized or engineered to perform specific functions within each customer’s unique flow control environment or objective.

Our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management and general industries. Our products are currently manufactured in 21 principal manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the U.S., 10 located in Europe, five located in Asia Pacific and one located in Latin America. We deliver our services through our global network of 27 QRCs worldwide, including five sites in Europe and Africa, nine in North America, three in the Middle East, eight in Asia Pacific and two in Latin America, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities. 

FCD Products

Our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represent one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. Our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown.

Our “smart” valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. These technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. These technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. We are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies.

Our valve actuation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available, including utilizing the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. Our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. Most importantly, FCD combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in controls and communication technologies in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize flow control performance and enhance digital end-user experience.

10

The following is a summary list of our valve and automation products and globally recognized brands:

FCD Product Types

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FCD Brand Names

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FCD Services

Our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. A large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. We also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. We believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers’ installed base of flow control products.

11

FCD New Product Development

Our R&D investment is focused on areas that will enhance end-user experience and advance our technological leadership by creating compelling value propositions for our customers, and lasting competitive advantage of our products and services in the market. In that respect, our investments have been focusing in four critical areas – (1) significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of automation products (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with Distributed Control Systems ("DCS") and Asset Management Systems (“AMS”); (2) developing and deploying next-generation hardware and software solutions that leverage our in-depth domain knowledge, big data and artificial intelligence, to further flow control diagnostics and bring insights that increase performance and efficiency of end-user processes; (3) advancing material science and processing technologies in order to further increase products’ capabilities in severe and critical services – including but not limited to noise and cavitation reduction; and (4) investing in our talents and processes that adopt modern R&D project management tools (such as lean startup, SCRUM, agile and hybrid portfolio management, etc.) that enable effective risk mitigation and shorter commercialization cycles. We expect to continue our R&D investments in the areas discussed above. 

None of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material.

FCD Customers

Our customer mix spans several end markets, including the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. We are especially active in providing solutions for emerging applications that supports sustainability (such as concentrated solar power, hydrogen economy, carbon capture, desalination, etc.) or increases energy productivity (such as LNG, Ethylene cracking, Hydrocracking, etc.). Our product offerings include original equipment, aftermarket parts, and a portfolio of services and solutions. Contracts and transactions are conducted through a variety of channels depending on customer requirements, including direct end-users, EPC firms, distributors, and other original equipment manufacturers.

FCD Competition

While in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. Some of the largest valve industry competitors include Emerson Electric Co., Cameron International Corp. (a Schlumberger company), Baker Hughes, Rotork plc, Neles and Crane Co. 

Our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 15% of the total valve market. Based on independent industry sources, we believe that FCD is the second largest industrial valve supplier in the world. We believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve and automation products and services, our ability to provide complementary pump and rotating equipment products and services, our focus on execution, our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications, and strategic partnerships purposely built to advance market adoption of new technologies and digital tools.

FCD Backlog

FCD’s backlog of orders as of December 31, 2020 was $623.1 million, compared with $600.0 million as of December 31, 2019. We expect to recognize revenue on approximately 89% of December 31, 2020 backlog during 2021.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain an Internet web site at www.flowserve.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the “Investor Relations” section of our Internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Reports, proxy statements and other information filed or furnished with the SEC are also available at www.sec.gov.

Also available on our Internet web site are our Corporate Governance Guidelines for our Board of Directors and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as well as the charters of the Audit, Finance and Risk, Organization and Compensation and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees of our Board of Directors and other important governance documents. All of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our Internet web site as noted above and 

12

are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. Information contained on or available through our Internet web site is not incorporated into this Annual Report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS