Item 1.

Business

Chapter 11 Restructuring

On April 14, 2020, Frontier and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company Parties or the Debtors and, as they may be reorganized pursuant to the Plan, the Reorganized Company Parties or the Reorganized Debtors) entered into a Restructuring Support Agreement (the Restructuring Support Agreement) with certain of its noteholders (the Consenting Noteholders) to facilitate the financial restructuring (the Restructuring) of the existing debt of, existing equity interests in, and certain other obligations of the Company Parties. In connection therewith, on April 14, 2020 (the Petition Date), the Company Parties commenced cases under chapter 11 (the Chapter 11 Cases) of title 11 of the United States Code (the Bankruptcy Code) in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the Bankruptcy Court). 

During the Chapter 11 Cases, Frontier is allowed to reorganize its finances while the business operations continue. The Company Parties continue to operate their businesses and manage their properties as “debtors-in-possession” under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and orders of the Bankruptcy Court. 

To ensure the Company Parties’ ability to continue operating in the ordinary course of business and minimize the effect of the Restructuring on the Company Parties’ customers and employees, the Company Parties filed certain motions and applications intended to limit the disruption of the bankruptcy proceedings on its operations (the First Day Motions), including authority to pay employee wages and benefits, and pay vendors and suppliers for goods and services provided both before and after the filing date.

On May 15, 2020, the Company Parties filed a proposed Joint Plan of Reorganization and related Disclosure Statement, each of which were amended on June 26, 2020, June 29, 2020 and June 30, 2020. On May 15, 2020, the Debtors also filed a proposed order approving the Disclosure Statement and various plan solicitation materials, including the solicitation and voting procedures, which was revised on June 29, 2020 (including modifications to some of the exhibits). On June 30, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court entered the modified order approving the adequacy of the Disclosure Statement and the solicitation and notice procedures and the forms of voting ballots and notices in connection therewith. The order established June 29, 2020 as the voting record date, July 2, 2020 as the solicitation launch date and July 31, 2020 as the voting deadline. On August 21, 2020, the Company Parties filed the Fifth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Frontier Communications Corporation and Its Debtor Affiliates Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (the Plan) with the Bankruptcy Court.

On August 27, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court entered the Order Confirming the Fifth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Frontier Communications Corporation and its Debtor Affiliates Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (the Confirmation Order), which approved and confirmed the Plan. The effective date of the Plan will occur once all conditions precedent to the Plan have been satisfied (the Effective Date). 

As set forth in the Plan and the Disclosure Statement, in order to implement the Restructuring contemplated by the Plan, the Company Parties must satisfy several conditions after confirmation of the Plan but prior to emergence from Chapter 11. Among other things, the Company Parties must obtain requisite regulatory approvals, including FCC and required PUC approvals in certain states. As part of the regulatory approval process, the Company made a number of affirmative commitments and the FCC and states have imposed additional conditions on the Company as part of approval for the Restructuring, including specific investment, broadband service deployment, service quality improvements, reporting and compliance conditions. The regulatory approval process is moving forward, and the Company has received Public Utility Commission (PUC) approvals or favorable determinations in all of the required states at this time, except California. No assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions, and timing of the remaining California approval. Even so, the Company expects that the Effective Date will occur in early 2021. 

2

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

As set forth in the Plan (See Plan Art.I.A.98), “Excess Cash” is the amount of estimated unrestricted balance sheet cash in excess of $150 million the Effective Date, and includes net after-tax cash proceeds from the Northwest Operations Sale (which amount to $1,129 million). As disclosed in the Debtors’ Plan Supplement [Docket No.1603], filed on March 1, 2021, the Debtors currently estimate $1,313 million of Excess Cash to be available as of the Effective Date. As set forth in the Plan, on the Effective Date, each of the Debtors’ senior noteholders shall receive, among other things, its Pro Rata share of and interest in the Debtors’ “Surplus Cash.” Under the Plan, the “Incremental Senior Notes Payments” will be made from Excess Cash, prior to the determination of, and distribution of, Surplus Cash.

See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview” and “—(b) Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Restructuring and the risks related thereto. Refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Recent Developments—Going Concern” and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and Note 9 for further detail of our debt obligations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020.

‎  

3

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Overview

Frontier is a provider of communications services in the United States, with approximately 3.6 million customers, 3.1 million broadband subscribers and 16,200 employees, operating in 25 states as of December 31, 2020. We provide a broad portfolio of communications services for consumer and commercial customers. These services, which include data and internet services, video services, voice services, access services and advanced hardware and network solutions, are offered either on a standalone basis or in a bundled package, depending on each customer’s needs. 

Our services are delivered to consumer and commercial customers over both fiber and copper-based networks. While approximately half of our revenues currently are generated by legacy telecom services provided over a primarily copper-based network, we are committed to a data-first strategy, transitioning towards a larger proportion of our revenues being derived from our fiber-based offerings. At the same time, we will pursue high return investments in fiber upgrades to further enhance our product suite and capabilities.

In recent years, we have complemented our business strategy with the completion of several acquisitions and divestitures. On May 1, 2020, Frontier completed the sale of its operations and associated assets in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana (Northwest Operations or Northwest Ops) for gross proceeds of $1,352 million, subject to certain closing adjustments. Net of funding certain pension and other retiree medical liabilities, funding certain escrows and other closing adjustments, we received $1,131 million in proceeds. Approximately 950 employees transitioned upon the closing of the sale. Revenues for the Northwest Operations represented approximately 7% of consolidated revenue for the four month period ended April 30, 2020 and the twelve month period ended December 31, 2019.

Frontier’s Service Territories 

(Service territories indicated in red below represent the Northwest Operations which were disposed on May 1, 2020)

‎  

4

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Recent Developments

Debt Refinancing

On August 28, 2020, the Company Parties filed a motion (the DIP Financing Motion) with the Bankruptcy Court to approve the indentures, credit, guarantee and security documents governing the obligations under senior secured superpriority first lien and/or second lien notes to be issued by the Company or an affiliate thereof, a debtor-in-possession (DIP) revolving facility and the exit revolving facility (the Exit Revolving Facility) it would convert into upon satisfaction of certain conditions, including the effectiveness of the Plan, a DIP term loan facility and the exit term loan facility it would convert into upon satisfaction of certain conditions, including the effectiveness of the Plan (the Exit Term Loan Facility) and, if applicable, the reinstated Term Loan B (collectively, the DIP Financing). On September 17, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court entered the final order approving the DIP Financing Motion.

In connection with the DIP Financing, on October 8, 2020, we issued $1,150 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% First Lien Secured Notes due October 15, 2027 (the First Lien Notes due October 2027), and entered into a $625 million DIP revolving facility (the DIP Revolving Facility) and a $500 million DIP term loan facility (the Initial DIP Term Loan Facility). We used the proceeds from the offering of the First Lien Notes due October 2027, together with the proceeds of the Initial DIP Term Loan Facility and cash on hand, to (i) repay in full our prepetition $1,650 million aggregate principal amount of 8.000% First Lien Secured Notes due April 1, 2027 (the Original First Lien Notes) and (ii) pay related interest, fees and expenses.

In connection with the DIP Financing, on November 25, 2020, we also issued $1,550 million aggregate principal amount of 5.000% First Lien Secured Notes due May 1, 2028 (the First Lien Notes due May 2028 and, together with the First Lien Notes due October 2027, the New First Lien Notes) and $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 6.750% Second Lien Secured Notes due May 1, 2029 (the New Second Lien Notes), and borrowed an incremental $750 million under the DIP term loan facility (the Incremental DIP Term Loan Facility and, together with the Initial DIP Term Loan Facility, the DIP Term Loan Facility). We used the proceeds from these issuances and the incremental term loan borrowing, together with cash on hand to (i) repay all outstanding borrowings under our prepetition $1,740 million senior secured term loan B facility due June 15, 2024 (the Term Loan B), (ii) repay in full the $1,600 million aggregate principal amount of prepetition 8.500% Second Lien Secured Notes due April 1, 2026 (the Original Second Lien Notes), and (iii) pay related interest, fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith.

Refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview” and “—(b) Liquidity and Capital Resources—Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities and New Secured Notes” and “—Chapter 11 Cases and Other Related Matters” for additional details.

Rural Digital Opportunity Fund Auction

From October 29, 2020 through November 25, 2020, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) held the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (RDOF) Phase I auction and announced the results on December 7, 2020. Frontier was awarded approximately $371 million over ten years to build gigabit- capable broadband over a fiber-to-the-premises network to approximately 127,000 locations across eight states (California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, and West Virginia). Frontier submitted its Long Form application to the FCC on January 29, 2021 and, assuming the long-form application is granted by the FCC, anticipates that it will begin receiving funding on January 1, 2022, in which case, Frontier will be required to complete the buildout to the RDOF locations by December 31, 2027, with interim target milestones over this period.

Our Priorities and Competitive Strengths

Modernization Plan

Following a comprehensive study of the best use of excess cash flow for reinvestment, Frontier is pursuing an extensive fiber build-out plan (the “Modernization Plan”) combined with execution on ongoing operational turnaround initiatives. The Modernization Plan, which aims to drive continued growth and increasing penetration of fiber to incremental locations, targets projects with high expected internal rate of return (“IRR”) opportunities based on available reinvestment dollars. Under the Modernization Plan, Frontier expects to nearly double its fiber footprint and subscribers, passing approximately 3.0 million incremental locations with fiber and adding approximately 1.2 million broadband subscribers over the next several years, with additional growth possible.

5

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Positive Market Forces 

Nation-wide, increased broadband speed is a main focus of consumers and businesses. We believe that the continued increase in the number of connected devices in the average household, along with rising demand for internet-delivered video services (Over The Top, or OTT video) enabled by rising broadband speeds, will further drive total data consumption. Our Modernization Plan is intended to capitalize on these industry trends.

Significant Network and Opportunities

Our current network passes by approximately 14.0 million consumer broadband enabled locations, consisting of 11.0 million copper passings and 3.0 million fiber passings. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 1.2 million fiber broadband customers, representing an approximate 40% fiber penetration rate across our footprint. We believe there are opportunities for fiber upgrades within our existing footprint, including business locations and wireless towers, as well as adjacent areas. Our copper network includes 11.0 million consumer premises, of which 3.0 million we plan to upgrade to fiber under our Modernization Plan and another 8.0 million that we may seek to convert into fiber and further penetrate existing markets. We plan to leverage installed assets and resources, such as conduit, rights-of-way, field service, and distribution and billing, to enable efficient technology conversion and profitable market penetration. We also believe there is significant opportunity to enhance cash flow by improving our existing operations, including through improving product and service capabilities to enhance customer satisfaction and reduce churn.

Improving Operational Efficiency and Profitability

Our initiatives are driven by our broader strategy of shifting focus towards a higher performance, data-driven product suite, and away from legacy products. We have implemented a number of operational initiatives across our business, including customer churn reduction initiatives, reducing content costs in our video product and deemphasizing video bundles, and transforming our enterprise sales force. Our strategic initiatives enabled us to achieve six consecutive quarters of positive net fiber broadband additions and a year-over-year improvement in net losses in copper markets as of the December 31, 2020. Moreover, we have achieved significant repricing and reduction of video gross additions, while still maintaining positive broadband net additions. Finally, we continue to execute on our video strategy of achieving savings by renegotiating contracts to lower content costs or dropping channels entirely. In our Commercial business in particular, we are committed to improving our relationships with our wholesale customers and are transitioning to a more productive enterprise sales force focused on cultivating relationships with the existing customer base, minimizing churn, and driving efficient sales of core strategic products.

Restructured Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Generation to Drive Reinvestment 

Our Chapter 11 restructuring is expected to eliminate approximately $11 billion of debt from our balance sheet upon emergence, which will enable significant annual interest savings. We expect this will provide flexibility to reinvest in fiber upgrades at attractive returns or pursue further deleveraging. However, this may not be indicative of our actual financial condition upon emergence, and it is possible that changes to the Plan may occur prior to or in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy, which could result in material differences to our capitalization and financial condition upon emergence. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity—" We believe our excess cash flow can be invested back into the business at very compelling risk adjusted returns based upon potential expansion and growth opportunities identified. 

Our Customers

We conduct business with both consumer and commercial customers.

Consumer 

We provide broadband, video, voice and other services and products to our consumer customers. We deliver these services generally over a combination of fiber and copper-based networks.

Commercial (small and medium businesses and larger enterprise customers (SME) as well as wholesale customers)

We provide a broad range of services to our SME and wholesale customers, including broadband service, ethernet service, traditional circuit-based services, software defined wide area network (SDWAN), managed Wi-Fi and cloud IT solutions, voice and Unified Communications as a Service (UCaaS) services and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). We also offer advanced hardware and network solutions and services.

oSmall Business: Mostly single-location businesses that subscribe to our traditional circuit-based services, the smallest of which have purchase patterns similar to consumer customers.

6

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

oMedium Businesses and Large Enterprise: Fortune 1000, multi-location companies, government entities, educational institutions, non-profits and small businesses that subscribe to ethernet based services.

oWholesale: Wholesale customers are often referred to as carriers or service providers and include national operators such as AT&T and Verizon; local exchange companies that need to access locations within Frontier’s footprint to offer local services; and wireless carriers and integrated carriers that offer a variety of services across all of these categories. Wholesale customers buy both voice and data services to supplement their own network infrastructure.

Services 

We offer a broad portfolio of communications services for consumer and commercial customers. These services are offered on either a standalone basis or in a bundled package, depending on each customer’s needs.

Data and internet services: We offer a comprehensive range of broadband and networking services. The principal consumer service we provide is broadband internet. Commercial services include a complete portfolio of ethernet services, dedicated internet, SDWAN, managed Wi-Fi, time division multiplexing data transport services and optical transport services. These services are all supported by 24/7 technical support and an advanced network operations center. We also offer wireless broadband services (through unlicensed spectrum) in select markets utilizing networks that we own or operate.

Video services: We provide direct linear video services in portions of California, Texas, Florida, Indiana, Connecticut, North Carolina, South Carolina, Minnesota, Illinois, New York, and Ohio. We also offer satellite TV video service to our customers under an agency relationship with Dish Network Corp. (Dish) in all of our markets. We also offer over-the-top (OTT) video service to our customers under referral agreements with OTT providers in all of our markets.

Voice services: We provide voice services, including data-based VoIP and UCaaS, long-distance and voice messaging services, to consumer and commercial customers in all of our markets. These services are billed monthly in advance. Long-distance service to and from points outside our operating properties are provided by interconnection with the facilities of interexchange carriers. Our long-distance services are billed in advance for unlimited use service and billed in arrears for services on a per minute-of-use basis.

Access services: We offer a range of access services. Our switched access services allow other carriers to use our facilities to originate and terminate their local and long-distance voice traffic. These services are generally offered on a month-to-month basis and the service is billed primarily on a minutes-of-use basis. Switched access charges are based on access rates filed with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for interstate services and with the respective state regulatory agency for intrastate services. See “Regulatory Environment” below.

Advanced hardware and network solutions: We offer our SME customers various hardware and network solutions utilizing cloud functionality, including end-to-end solutions like cloud managed services and Managed Wireless LAN, as well as providing customer premise equipment (CPE). We offer third-party communications equipment tailored to their specific business needs by partnering with Mitel, Cisco, Ingram Micro, Airbus, Avaya, Hewlett Packard, Adtran and other equipment manufacturers. CPE is typically sold in conjunction with voice, data and Internet services, but may also be sold on a standalone basis. 

Network Architecture and Technology

Our local exchange carrier networks consist of host central office and remote sites, primarily equipped with digital and Internet Protocol switches. The outside plant consists of transport and distribution delivery networks connecting our host central office with remote central offices and ultimately with our customers. We own fiber optic and copper cable, which have been deployed in our networks and are the primary transport technologies between our host and remote central offices and interconnection points with other communication carriers. 

We have expanded and enhanced our fiber optic and copper transport systems to support increasing demand for high bandwidth transport services. We routinely enhance our network and upgrade with the latest internet protocol transport and routing equipment, reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexers transport systems, passive optical network, very high speed digital subscriber line broadband equipment, and VoIP switches. These systems support advanced services such as ethernet, dedicated internet, VoIP, and SDWAN. The network is designed with redundancy and auto-failover capability on our major circuits. 

7

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

We connect to households and business locations in our service territory using a combination of fiber optic, copper and wireless technologies. In some cases, we provide direct fiber into a residence or a business premises. In other cases, a location is served with a hybrid combination of fiber and copper. Residences in our service territory are served by fiber-to-the-home and by fiber-to-the-node, meaning fiber carries the traffic to an intermediate location where the signals are converted to copper wire for the final delivery to the household. We provide data, video, and voice services to customers over both of these architectures. Additionally, fixed wireless broadband (FWB) will play an important part of our future broadband strategy and is deployed for some business ethernet services. FWB is delivered by the use of an antenna on a Frontier base location and another antenna at the customer location. 

Competition

For the large majority of premises passed, we currently face competition from no more than one wireline competitor, including a portion of our footprint does not currently face any wireline competition. Moreover, we operate in many dense, urban markets with favorable demographic characteristics, including higher income and/or lower age, each of which correlate to higher broadband usage. 

Competition within the communications industry is intense. Technological advances as well as regulatory and legislative changes have enabled a wide range of historically non-traditional communications service providers to compete with traditional providers, including Frontier. More market participants are now competing to meet the communications needs of the same customer base, thus increasing competitive pressures. Many of these service providers are not subject to the same regulations as traditional communications providers and have lower cost structures than we do. The industry has also experienced substantial consolidation in recent years. Many of our competitors are larger, have stronger brand recognition, have more service offerings and have greater financial resources than we currently do. All of these factors create downward pressure on the demand for and pricing of our services. In addition to traditional communication providers we have competition with the following:

-Cable operators: In a majority of our markets, cable operators offer high speed Internet, video and voice services similar to ours, and compete with us aggressively for consumer and business customers on speed and price primarily by marketing with significant promotional period pricing.

-Wireless carriers: Wireless operators offer broadband, video and voice services and compete with us for consumer and business customers by offering increasingly larger data packages that utilize the latest 5G technology to mobile customers. As a result, the percentage of premises with landline telephone service has been declining, a trend we expect will continue. 

-Online video providers: Many consumers are opting for OTT video services rather than traditional, multi-channel video. In response, we have made investments in our network to deliver OTT video content to consumers who might not opt for traditional video services. The percentage of premises with a traditional, multi-channel video product has declined, a trend we expect will continue. 

Competition for consumer customers is based on price, bandwidth, quality and speed of service, including promotions as well as bundling of service offerings. Competition comes from other communications providers, cable operators, Competitive Local Exchange Companies (CLECs) and other enterprises. Our focus is to improve our customers’ experience through the deployment of efficient responses for their specific needs. This will improve the overall service quality provided and encourage migration to higher speed internet services. Some consumer customers prefer the convenience and discounts available when voice, data, Internet and or video services are bundled by a single provider. To address this demand, we offer satellite TV video service through a partnership with Dish® in areas where we don’t otherwise have our own video capabilities.

Competition for commercial customers is also based on price, bandwidth, quality and speed of service, including pricing and promotions and bundled offerings. Competition comes from other communications providers, cable operators, CLECs and other enterprises. As compared to our consumer customers, commercial customers often require more sophisticated and more data-centered solutions (e.g., IP PBX, E911 networks, ethernet and SIP trunking). In order to differentiate ourselves from other service providers, Frontier delivers end-to-end solutions such as cloud managed services and managed wireless LAN. 

As customers continue to migrate to OTT video models, broadband is a core growth component for attracting and retaining consumer customers as well as our smaller commercial customers. We are committed to growing our  

8

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

customer base through providing higher broadband speeds and capacity that will enable us to reach new markets, target new customers and grow the business while maximizing our full geographic footprint.

In addition to the focus on our broadband capabilities, we must continue to evolve our other product offerings to stay current with the changing needs of the market, provide strong customer service and support, invest in our network to enable adequate capacity and capabilities, and package our offerings at attractive prices. We are continuing to execute on our initiatives to drive operational performance, invest in our fiber network, add talent to our organization and become a stronger partner to our residential and enterprise customers.

Regulatory Environment 

Some of our operations are subject to regulation by the FCC and various state regulatory agencies, often called public service or utility commissions. We expect federal and state lawmakers, the FCC and the state regulatory agencies to continue to revise the statutes and regulations governing communications services.

Regulation of Our Business 

We are subject to federal, state and local regulation and we have various regulatory authorizations for our regulated service offerings. At the federal level, the FCC generally exercises jurisdiction over information services, interstate or international telecommunications services and over facilities to the extent they are used to provide, originate or terminate interstate or international services. State regulatory commissions generally exercise jurisdiction over intrastate telecommunications services and the facilities used to provide, originate or terminate those services. Most of our local exchange companies operate as incumbent carriers in the states in which they operate and are certified in those states to provide local telecommunications services. Certain federal and state agencies, including attorneys general, monitor and exercise oversight related to consumer protection issues, including marketing, sales, provision of services, and service charges. In addition, local governments often regulate the public rights-of-way necessary to install and operate networks and may require service providers to obtain licenses or franchises regulating their use of public rights-of-way. Municipalities and other local government agencies also may regulate other limited aspects of our business, by requiring us to obtain cable franchises and construction permits and to abide by applicable building codes.

Some state regulatory agencies have substantial oversight over incumbent telephone companies, and their interconnection with competitive providers and provision of non-discriminatory network access to certain network elements to them. Under the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, state regulatory commissions have jurisdiction to set certain rates, arbitrate, and review interconnection disputes and agreements between incumbent telephone companies and CLECs, in accordance with rules set by the FCC. The FCC and some state regulatory commissions also impose fees on providers of telecommunications services to support the federal and state universal service programs. Many of the states in which we operate require prior approvals or notifications for certain acquisitions and transfers of assets, customers, or ownership of regulated entities.

Additionally, in some states we are subject to operating restrictions and minimum service quality standards. Failure to meet such restrictions may result in penalties or other obligations, including subjecting the Company to additional reporting and compliance obligations. As part of its required regulatory approval to emerge from Chapter 11, the Company has also agreed to and been required by certain states to comply with additional service quality, expenditures, reporting and other requirements. We also are required to report certain financial information. At the federal level and in a number of the states in which we operate, we are subject to price cap or incentive regulation plans under which prices for regulated services are capped. Some of these plans have limited terms and, as they expire, we may need to renegotiate with various states. These negotiations could impact rates, service quality and/or infrastructure requirements, which could also impact our earnings and capital expenditures. In other states in which we operate, we are subject to rate of return regulation that limits levels of earnings and returns on investments. Approximately 17% of our total access lines as of December 31, 2020 are in state jurisdictions under the rate of return regulatory model. We continue to advocate for no or reduced regulation with the regulatory agencies in those states. In some of the states we operate in we have already been successful in reducing or eliminating price regulation on end-user services.

9

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Federal Regulatory Environment

Frontier, along with all telecommunications providers, is subject to FCC rules governing privacy of specified customer information. Among other things, these rules obligate carriers to implement procedures to: protect specified customer information from inappropriate disclosure; obtain customer permission to use specified information in marketing; authenticate customers before disclosing account information; and annually certify compliance with the FCC’s rules. Although most of these regulations are generally consistent with our business plans, they may restrict our flexibility in operating our business.

Some regulations are, or could in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals or challenges that could change the manner in which the entire industry operates or the way we provide our services. Neither the outcome of any of these developments, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted at this time. Regulation can change rapidly in the communications industry, and such changes may have an adverse effect on us.

The current status of material regulatory initiatives is as follows:

Connect America Fund (CAF)/ Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (RDOF): In 2015, Frontier accepted the FCC’s CAF Phase II offer in 29 states, which provides $332 million in annual support and in return the Company is committed to make broadband available to approximately 774,000 locations within its footprint. This amount included approximately 41,000 locations and $19 million in annual support related to the four states of the Northwest Operations, which were disposed on May 1, 2020. The CAF Phase II program is intended to provide long-term support for carriers for establishing and providing broadband service with at least 10 Mbps downstream/1 Mbps upstream speeds in high-cost unserved or underserved areas. The CAF II funding runs through 2021.

On January 30, 2020, the FCC adopted an order establishing the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (RDOF), a competitive reverse auction to provide support to serve high cost areas. The FCC held the RDOF Phase I auction from October 29, 2020 through November 25, 2020, and announced the results on December 7, 2020. Frontier was awarded approximately $371 million over ten years to build gigabit-capable broadband over a fiber-to-the-premises network to approximately 127,000 locations across eight states (California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, and West Virginia). Frontier submitted its Long Form application to the FCC on January 29, 2021 and, assuming the long-form application is granted by the FCC, anticipates that it will begin receiving funding on January 1, 2022, in which case, Frontier will be required to complete the buildout to the RDOF locations by December 31, 2027, with interim target milestones over this period.

After the FCC completes its current requirement to update its broadband maps with more granular broadband availability information, the FCC plans to hold a second auction for any remaining locations with the remaining funding, expected to be up to approximately $11.2 billion. 

Intercarrier Compensation: In the 2011 Universal Service Fund (USF)/Intercarrier Compensation (ICC) Report and Order (the 2011 Order), the FCC reformed Intercarrier Compensation, which is the payment framework that governs how carriers compensate each other for the exchange of interstate switched traffic and began a multi-year transition to the new rates. The 2011 Order provided for the gradual elimination of effectively all terminating traffic charges by July 2017. The 2011 Order did not resolve all questions on originating access rates, however in an October 2020 order, the FCC adopted a 2-year transition of 1-800 (toll free) switched access charges to zero beginning July 2021, thus further reducing this declining revenue stream. The FCC continues to consider the possibility of a transition of originating access rates, and the potential impact on Frontier from such a change, if any, is unknown at this time. Our total revenue for Intercarrier Compensation was $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. 

Special Access: On April 20, 2017, the FCC issued an Order (the 2017 Order) that significantly altered how commercial data services are regulated. Specifically, the 2017 Order adopted a test to determine, on a county-by-county basis, whether price-cap ILEC services, such as Frontier’s DS1 and DS3 services, will continue to be regulated. The test resulted in deregulation in a substantial number of our markets and is allowing Frontier to offer its DS1 and DS3 services in a manner that better responds to the competitive marketplace and allows for commercial negotiation. The areas that remain regulated may be subject to price fluctuations depending upon the price cap formula in each year. While multiple parties appealed the 2017 Order, the 8th Circuit issued a decision that upheld the majority of the 2017 Order. As to the part of the decision that was vacated and remanded to the FCC, the FCC has reinstated the deregulation and the FCC’s decision to reaffirm its deregulation has not been appealed.

10

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Intrastate Services: Some state regulatory commissions regulate some of the rates ILECs charge for intrastate services, including originating switched access rates for intrastate access services paid by providers of intrastate long-distance services. Some states also have their own open proceedings to address reform to originating intrastate access charges and other intercarrier compensation and state universal service funds. Although the FCC has pre-empted state jurisdiction on most access charges, some states could consider moving forward with their proceedings. We cannot predict when or how these matters will be decided or the effect on our subsidy or switched access revenues. Our total revenue for Intrastate switched access services was $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, spread across all the states we serve.

Current and Potential Internet Regulatory Obligations: On October 1, 2019, the D.C. Circuit Court largely upheld the FCC decision in its 2018 Restoring Internet Freedom Order to reclassify broadband as an “information service.” However, the Court invalidated the FCC’s preemption of a state’s ability to pass their own network neutrality rules and remanded back to the FCC other parts of the 2018 Order. We anticipate that this ruling will be appealed. California’s network neutrality provisions will remain on hold until all appeals of this case have been exhausted. It is unclear whether pending or future appeals will have any impact on the regulatory structure, and it is unclear the degree to which the outcome of the November 2020 elections may impact federal legislative or regulatory action on net neutrality issues.

Privacy: Privacy-related legislation has been considered in a number of states. Legislative and regulatory action could result in increased costs of compliance, claims against broadband internet access service providers and others, and increased uncertainty in the value and availability of data. On June 28, 2018, the state of California enacted comprehensive privacy legislation that, effective as of January 1, 2020, gives California consumers the right to know what personal information is being collected about them, and whether and to whom it is sold or disclosed, and to access and request deletion of this information. Subject to certain exceptions, it also gives consumers the right to opt-out of the sale of personal information. The law applies the same rules to all companies that collect consumer information. It is unclear the degree to which the outcome of the November 2020 elections may impact federal legislative or regulatory action around privacy.

Coronavirus/COVID-19: On March 13, 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, over 550 providers of critical communications services, including Frontier, took the FCC’s Keep Americans Connected pledge pursuant to which providers agreed (i) not to terminate service to any residential or small business customers because of their inability to pay their bills due to the disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic; (ii) to waive any late fees that any residential or small business customers incur because of their economic circumstances related to the coronavirus pandemic; and (iii) to open its Wi-Fi hotspots to any American who needs them. The Keep Americans Connected Pledge expired on June 30, 2020; however, state and federal governments continue to ask companies to aid in pandemic response. A number of the states we operate in have issued executive orders prohibiting the disconnection of services for customers for the length of the state of emergency and/or otherwise restrict the assessment of late fees during the pandemic. While certain customers have taken advantage of our COVID-19 related relief programs, as of December 31, 2020, very few had past due balances beyond the point of normal disconnection. Given the unprecedented and evolving nature of the pandemic and the evolving response of multiple levels of government, the impact of potential changes on the Company are not fully known at this time.

For information on the tax-related legislative response to the COVID-19 pandemic, see “Risk Factors―Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity―We may not be able to fully utilize our net operating loss and other tax carryforwards.” and “Risks Related to Regulation and Oversight―Tax legislation may adversely affect our business and financial condition.”

Video Programming 

Federal, state and local governments extensively regulate the video services industry. Our linear video services are subject to, among other things: subscriber privacy regulations; requirements that we carry a local broadcast station or obtain consent to carry a local or distant broadcast station; rules for franchise renewals and transfers; the manner in which program packages are marketed to subscribers; and program access requirements.

We provide video programming in some of our markets in California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, and Texas pursuant to franchises, permits and similar authorizations issued by state and local franchising authorities. Most franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material breach or expire in the ordinary course. In addition, most franchises require payment of a franchise fee as a requirement to the granting of authority. 

11

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance. In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations. We believe that we are in compliance and meeting all material standards and requirements. Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms of at least ten years and must be periodically renewed. Local franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate.

Our agreement with Verizon for use of the FiOS brand and trademark in markets acquired from them will expire on March 31, 2021 and will not be renewed or extended. Frontier is in the process of rebranding our related data and video services as Frontier FiberOptic Internet and Frontier TV, respectively.

Environmental Regulation

The local exchange carrier subsidiaries we operate are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, disposal of, and exposure to hazardous materials, the release of pollutants into the environment and the remediation of contamination. As an owner and former owner of property, we are subject to environmental laws that could impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup at contaminated sites, including sites formerly owned by us, regardless of fault or the lawfulness of the activity that resulted in contamination. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. 

Segment Information

We currently operate in one reportable segment.

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

We have no foreign operations.

General

The dollar amount of our order backlog is not a significant consideration in our business and is not a meaningful metric for us. We have no material contracts or subcontracts that may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination at the election of the federal government.

Intellectual Property

We believe that we have the trademarks, trade names and intellectual property licenses that are necessary for the operation of our business.

We own or have the rights to use various trademarks, service marks and trade names referred to in this report. Solely for convenience, we refer to trademarks, service marks and trade names in this report without the ™, SM and ® symbols. Such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent permitted by law, our rights to our trademarks, service marks and trade names. Other trademarks, trade names or service marks appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners.

Human Capital Resources

As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 16,200 employees, as compared to approximately 18,300 employees as of December 31, 2019. During 2020, reduction in workforce activities resulted in the separation of approximately 35 employees. In addition, 950 employees, including 742 employees represented by unions, were transferred with the sale of our Northwest Operations in May 2020. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 11,300 of our total employees are represented by unions including approximately 3,200 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements that have expired but have been extended into 2021. Of the union-represented employees as of December 31, 2020, approximately 6,100 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2021 and approximately 1,800 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2022. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Our workforce is currently supplemented by about 525 contract workers, primarily supporting the technology and field operations groups. We are a federal contractor and follow the rules set forth by the Department of Labor Office of Compliance (OFCCP), including those applicable to recruiting, hiring and diversity. 

‎  

12

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Our human resources programs are designed to balance the priorities of our customers, employees and stakeholders. Selected key programs include:

We offer competitive compensation packages targeted to market levels. Our benefit programs are designed to provide a safety-net to help our employees focus on our customers while managing the costs to participants and the Company.

Compensation and benefits for our union employees are defined in our collective bargaining agreements. 

We foster employee skills and development through comprehensive training programs. For example, we provide continuous training to our customer facing employees on our latest technology and services to help facilitate a better customer experience. We also provide ongoing safety training to our field technicians to ensure both the safety of our employees and our customers.

We provide tuition reimbursement programs to encourage personal and professional growth.

We provide leadership development and coaching programs designed to grow leadership capacity, develop greater self-awareness and build a robust leadership pipeline.

In response to COVID-19, we acted quickly and decisively to protect our employees and customers, avoiding furloughs and minimizing impacts to our customers.

We have operations in four large metropolitan areas as well as thousands of rural hubs across our 25-state footprint. In many of these areas, Frontier is a significant employer and contributor to the local economy. In this capacity we seek to provide grass roots support for local projects that benefit the communities that we serve. Further, we participate in the FCC’s CAF (now RDOF) programs which provide support for Frontier to establish and provide broadband service in underserved areas. 

As we execute on our modernization plan and related operational initiatives, key priorities will include elevating our corporate culture, enhancing and fostering diversity and inclusion across our corporation and ensuring that our workforce is appropriately aligned with key business initiatives.

Available Information

We make available, free of charge on our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents may be accessed through our website at www.frontier.com under “Investor Relations.” The information posted or linked on our website is not part of, or incorporated by reference into, this report. We also make our Annual Report available in printed form upon request at no charge.

We also make available on our website, as noted above, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Specific Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Provisions for Certain Officers, and the charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees of the Board of Directors. Stockholders may request printed copies of these materials by writing to: 401 Merritt 7, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851 Attention: Corporate Secretary.

‎  

13

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements," related to future events. Forward-looking statements address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," "may," “will,” "would," or "target." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. Uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:

our ability to continue as a going concern;

our ability to successfully consummate the Restructuring of our existing debt, existing equity interests, and certain other obligations, and emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases, including by satisfying both the conditions in the Plan and the conditions and milestones in the Restructuring Support Agreement;

our ability to improve our liquidity and long-term capital structure and to address our debt service obligations through the Restructuring and the potential adverse effects of the Chapter 11 Cases on our liquidity and results of operations;

our ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers, employees and other third parties as a result of the Restructuring and the Chapter 11 Cases;

the effects of the Restructuring and the Chapter 11 Cases on us and the interests of various constituents;

risks and uncertainties associated with the Restructuring, including our ability to satisfy the conditions precedent for effectiveness of and successfully consummate the Restructuring in accordance with the Plan under the Chapter 11 Cases;

our ability to comply with the restrictions imposed by covenants in our DIP Financing and expected to be imposed by our exit financing;

the length of time that we will operate under Chapter 11 protection and the continued availability of operating capital during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases;

risks associated with third party motions in the Chapter 11 Cases, which may interfere with the Company’s ability to consummate the Restructuring;

increased administrative and legal costs related to the Chapter 11 process;

declines in revenue from our voice services, switched and nonswitched access and video and data services that we cannot stabilize or offset with increases in revenue from other products and services;

declines in Adjusted EBITDA relative to historical levels that we are unable to offset through potential EBITDA enhancements;

our ability to successfully implement strategic initiatives, including opportunities to enhance revenue and realize productivity improvements;

our ability to effectively manage our operations, operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt service requirement and cash paid for income taxes and liquidity;

competition from cable, wireless and wireline carriers, satellite, and over the top companies, and the risk that we will not respond on a timely or profitable basis;

our ability to successfully adjust to changes in the communications industry, including the effects of technological changes and competition on our capital expenditures, products and service offerings;

14

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

risks related to disruption in our networks, infrastructure and information technology that result in customer loss and/or incurrence of additional expenses;

the impact of potential information technology or data security breaches or other cyber-attacks or other disruptions;

our ability to retain or attract new customers and to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers;

our ability to secure, continue to use or renew intellectual property and other licenses used in our business;

changes to our board of directors and management team upon our emergence from bankruptcy or in anticipation of emergence, and our ability to hire or retain key personnel;

our ability to dispose of certain assets or asset groups on terms that are attractive to us, or at all;

the effects of changes in the availability of federal and state universal service funding or other subsidies to us and our competitors and our ability to obtain future subsidies, including expiration of CAF II funding and, future RDOF funding and participation in the next round of the RDOF program;

our ability to meet our CAF Phase II and RDOF obligations and the risk of penalties or obligations to return certain CAF Phase II and/or RDOF funds;

our ability to defend against litigation and potentially unfavorable results from current pending and future litigation;

our ability to comply with applicable federal and state consumer protection requirements, including agreements entered into with regulators related to consumer protection issues;

the effects of state regulatory requirements that could limit our ability to transfer cash among our subsidiaries or dividend funds up to the parent company;

the effects of governmental legislation and regulation on our business, including costs, disruptions, possible limitations on operating flexibility and changes to the competitive landscape resulting from such legislation or regulation;

the impact of regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including failure to comply with Restructuring-related obligations imposed by Federal and State regulators and/or agreed to by the Company;

government infrastructure projects (such as highway construction) that impact our investment plans and costs;

continued reductions in switched access revenues as a result of regulation, competition or technology substitutions;

our ability to effectively manage service quality in the states in which we operate and meet mandated or agreed upon service quality metrics;

the effects of changes in income tax rates, tax laws, regulations or rulings, or federal or state tax assessments, including the risk that such changes may benefit our competitors more than us, as well as potential future decreases in the value of our deferred tax assets;

the effects of changes in accounting policies or practices, including potential future impairment charges with respect to our intangible assets or additional losses on assets held for sale;

the effects of increased medical expenses and pension and postemployment expenses; 

15

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

our ability to successfully renegotiate union contracts;

changes in pension plan assumptions, interest rates, discount rates, regulatory rules and/or the value of our pension plan assets, which could require us to make increased contributions to the pension plan in 2020 and beyond;

adverse changes in economic, political and market conditions in the areas that we serve, the U.S. and globally, including but not limited to, changes resulting from epidemics, pandemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases, including the coronavirus global pandemic, or other adverse public health developments;

potential adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and operations, including potential disruptions to the work of our employees arising from health and safety measures such as social distancing and working remotely, our ability to effectively manage increased demand on our network, our ability to maintain relationships with our current or prospective customers and vendors as well as their abilities to perform under current or proposed arrangements with us, and stress on our supply chain; and

trading price and volatility of our common stock, risks related to the delisting of our common stock from the

Nasdaq Global Select Market and the cancellation of our common stock contemplated by the Plan.

Any of the foregoing events, or other events, could cause our results to vary from management’s forward-looking statements included in this report. You should consider these important factors, as well as the risks set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” in evaluating any statement in this report or otherwise made by us or on our behalf. We have no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements and do not undertake to do so.

Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility.

‎ 

16

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

(DEBTOR-IN-POSSESSION)

Item 1A. Risk Factors