Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Certain financial information about the Company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "Derivative Financial Instruments" in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.

We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of January 30, 2021 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to U.S. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. The foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of January 30, 2021. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $41 million as of January 30, 2021.

Debt

Certain financial information about the Company's debt is set forth under the heading "Debt and Credit Facilities" in Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. 

39

In May 2020, we completed the issuance of the Notes and received gross proceeds of $2.25 billion. The Notes have a fixed interest rate and are exposed to interest rate risk that is limited to changes in fair value. Changes in interest rates do not impact our cash flows. The scheduled maturity of the Notes is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Includes an option to call the Notes in whole or in part at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.

In conjunction with our financings, we obtained new long-term senior unsecured credit ratings from Moody's. On March 26, 2020, Moody's downgraded our senior unsecured rating from Baa2 to Ba1 and changed their outlook from stable to negative. On April 23, 2020, Moody's downgraded our corporate credit ratings from Ba1 to Ba2 with negative outlook, and Standard & Poor's downgraded our credit ratings from BB to BB- with negative outlook. Any future reduction in the Moody's and Standard & Poor's ratings would potentially result in an increase to our interest expense on future borrowings.

Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments

Certain financial information about the Company's cash equivalents and short-term investments is set forth under the heading "Fair Value Measurements" in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K. 

We have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. All highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase are classified as cash and cash equivalents. Our cash equivalents are placed primarily in time deposits, money market funds, and commercial paper. We generally value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. We also have highly liquid investments with original maturities of greater than three months and less than two years that are classified as short-term investments. These securities are recorded at fair value using market prices.

Changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our investments that are considered available-for-sale. As of January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020, the Company held $410 million and $290 million, respectively, of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturity dates greater than three months and less than two years within short-term investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, as of January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020, the Company held $90 million and $23 million, respectively, of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturities of less than three months at the time of purchase within cash and cash equivalents. Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale debt securities included in accumulated other comprehensive income were immaterial as of January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020. 

Changes in interest rates also impact the interest income derived from our investments. In fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, we earned interest income of $10 million and $30 million, respectively.

40

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.