ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our company is exposed to certain market risks, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. We use derivative financial and commodity instruments, where appropriate, to manage these risks. As a matter of policy, we do not engage in trading or speculative transactions. Refer to Note 14 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our derivative financial and commodity instruments.

Foreign exchange risk

Our company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows related primarily to third-party purchases, intercompany transactions, and when applicable, nonfunctional currency denominated third-party debt. Our company is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. 

Additionally, volatile market conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic may result in significant changes in foreign exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may negatively affect the translation of foreign currency denominated earnings to U.S. dollars. Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the euro, British pound, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, Nigerian naira, Russian ruble and Egyptian pound, and in the case of inter-subsidiary transactions, the British pound versus the euro. 

The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including Argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance. Effective July 1, 2018, we have accounted for Argentina as a highly inflationary economy, as the projected three-year cumulative inflation rate exceeds 100%. Accordingly, our Argentina subsidiary will use the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. Accordingly, changes in the value of the Argentine Peso versus the U.S. dollar applied to our peso-denominated net monetary asset position is recorded in income at the time of the change. Net monetary assets denominated in Argentine Pesos were not material as of January 2, 2021.

There have also been periods of increased market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations specifically within the United Kingdom and Europe, as a result of the UK's exit from the European Union. On January 31, 2020, the United Kingdom left the European Union. Following the conclusion of the transition period on December 31, 2020, the United Kingdom exited the European Union's Custom Union and Single Market moving on to trading terms consistent with the European Union - United Kingdom Trade and Cooperation Agreement. While the specific operational and financial impacts of Brexit will continue to evolve and uncertainty remains relating to Brexit and its impact on the local and international markets and the flow of goods and materials across borders, we do not expect such impacts to be material to the financial trends of our European and Consolidated businesses. We will continue to monitor any changes that may arise and assess their potential impact on our business.

We assess foreign currency risk based on transactional cash flows and translational volatility and may enter into forward contracts, options, and currency swaps to reduce fluctuations in long or short currency positions. Forward contracts and options are generally less than 18 months duration. Currency swap agreements may be established in conjunction with the term of underlying debt issuances.

The total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments, including cross currency swaps, at year-end 2020 was $4.3 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $33 million. The total notional amount of foreign currency derivative instruments at year-end 2019 was $4.2 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $79 million. All of these derivatives were hedges of anticipated transactions, translational exposure, or existing assets or liabilities. Foreign currency contracts generally mature within 18 months and cross currency contracts mature with the related debt. Assuming an unfavorable 10% change in year-end exchange rates, the settlement obligation would have increased by $272 million, resulting in a net settlement obligation of $305 million at year-end 2020 and the settlement receivable would have decreased by $245 million at year-end 2019. These unfavorable changes would generally have been offset by favorable changes in the values of the underlying exposures.

Interest rate risk

Our company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing and future issuances of variable rate debt. Primary exposures include movements in U.S. Treasury rates, London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), and commercial paper rates. We periodically use interest rate swaps and forward 

53

interest rate contracts to reduce interest rate volatility and funding costs associated with certain debt issues, and to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions.

We entered into interest rate swaps, and in some instances terminated interest rate swaps, in connection with certain U.S. Dollar and Euro Notes. Refer to Note 8 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2020 was $2.6 billion, representing a settlement receivable of $46 million. The total notional amount of interest rate swaps at year-end 2019 was $1.9 billion, representing a settlement obligation of $6 million. Assuming average variable rate debt levels during the year, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased interest expense by approximately $8 million and $13 million at year-end 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

Price risk

Our company is exposed to price fluctuations primarily as a result of anticipated purchases of raw and packaging materials, fuel, and energy. Primary exposures include corn, wheat, potato flakes, soybean oil, sugar, cocoa, cartonboard, natural gas, and diesel fuel. We have historically used the combination of long-term contracts with suppliers, and exchange-traded futures and option contracts to reduce price fluctuations in a desired percentage of forecasted raw material purchases over a duration of generally less than 18 months. 

The total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2020 was $314 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $8 million. The total notional amount of commodity derivative instruments at year-end 2019 was $524 million, representing a settlement receivable of approximately $8 million. Assuming a 10% decrease in year-end commodity prices, the settlement receivable would become a settlement obligation of $22 million at year-end 2020, and the settlement obligation would have increased by approximately $40 million at year-end 2019, generally offset by a reduction in the cost of the underlying commodity purchases.

In addition to the commodity derivative instruments discussed above, we use long-term contracts with suppliers to manage a portion of the price exposure associated with future purchases of certain raw materials, including rice, sugar, cartonboard, and corrugated boxes.

Reciprocal collateralization agreements

In some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. These agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a net liability position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. As of January 2, 2021, collateral related to reciprocal collateralization agreements and margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, were immaterial. As of December 28, 2019, we were not required to post collateral and collected approximately $19 million of collateral, in the form of cash, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of December 28, 2019, we posted $12 million, in margin deposits for exchange-traded commodity derivative instruments, which was reflected as an increase in accounts receivable, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

54

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA