Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices as the volatility of these prices continues to impact our industry. We expect commodity prices to remain volatile and unpredictable in the future. We are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates. We employ various strategies, including the use of financial derivative instruments, to manage the risks related to these fluctuations. We are at risk for changes in the fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. While the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for more information about the fair value measurement of our derivatives, the amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheets and statements of income and the related notional amounts.

Commodity Price Risk

Our strategy is to obtain competitive prices for our products and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand. However, management will periodically protect prices on forecasted sales to support cash flow and liquidity, as deemed appropriate. We may use a variety of commodity derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, swaps and combinations of options, as part of an overall program to manage commodity price risk in our business. Our consolidated results for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were impacted by crude oil and natural gas derivatives related to a portion of our forecasted United States sales. 

As of December 31, 2020, we had various open commodity derivatives. Based on the December 31, 2020 published NYMEX WTI, natural gas and NGL futures prices, a hypothetical 10% change (per bbl for crude oil and NGL and per MMBtu for natural gas) would change the fair values of our $23 million net liability position to the following: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2020 our portfolio of current and long-term debt is comprised of fixed-rate instruments with an outstanding balance of $5.4 billion. Our sensitivity to interest rate movements and corresponding changes in the fair value of our fixed-rate debt portfolio affects our results of operations and cash flows only when we elect to repurchase or otherwise retire fixed-rate debt at prices different than carrying value. 

At December 31, 2020, we had forward starting interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of $670 million designated as cash flow hedges and $500 million not designated as hedges. We utilize cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by utilizing interest rate swap agreements to hedge variations in cash flows related to (1) the 1-month LIBOR component of future lease payments on our future Houston office and (2) the benchmark LIBOR index for our debt due in 2025. We de-designated the cash flow hedges related to our debt due in 2022 during the third quarter of 2020. A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates would change the fair values of our $3 million net asset position of our cash flow hedge and our $10 million net asset position of our de-designated cash flow hedge to the following as of December 31, 2020: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52

Counterparty Risk

We are also exposed to financial risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. If commodity prices fall below certain levels, some of our counterparties may experience liquidity problems and may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us. We review the creditworthiness of counterparties and use master netting agreements when appropriate. 

53

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data