ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

COMMODITY PRICE RISK

GENERAL

Occidental’s results are sensitive to fluctuations in oil, NGL and natural gas prices. Price changes at current global prices and levels of production affect Occidental’s pre-tax annual income by approximately $200 million for a $1 per barrel change in oil prices and $85 million for a $1 per barrel change in NGL prices. If domestic natural gas prices varied by $0.10 per Mcf, it would have an estimated annual effect on Occidental’s pre-tax income of approximately $35 million. These price-change sensitivities include the impact of PSC and similar contract volume changes on income. If production levels change in the future, the sensitivity of Occidental’s results to prices also will change. Marketing results are sensitive to price changes of oil, natural gas and, to a lesser degree, other commodities. A $0.25 change in the Midland-to-Gulf-Coast oil spreads impacts total year operating cash flows by $65 million.

Occidental’s results are also sensitive to fluctuations in chemical prices. A variation in chlorine and caustic soda prices of $10 per ton would have a pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $10 million and $30 million, respectively. A variation in PVC prices of $0.01 per lb. would have a pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $30 million. Historically, over time, product price changes have tracked raw material and feedstock product price changes, somewhat mitigating the effect of price changes on margins.

Occidental uses derivative instruments, including a combination of short-term futures, forwards, options and swaps, to obtain the average prices for the relevant production month and to improve realized prices for oil and gas.

RISK MANAGEMENT

Occidental conducts its risk management activities for marketing and trading under the controls and governance of its risk control policies. The controls under these policies are implemented and enforced by a risk management group which monitors risk by providing an independent and separate evaluation and check. Members of the risk management group report to the Corporate Vice President and Treasurer. Controls for these activities include limits on value at risk, limits on credit, limits on total notional trade value, segregation of duties, delegation of authority, daily price verifications, reporting to senior management on various risk measures and a number of other policy and procedural controls.

FAIR VALUE OF MARKETING DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS

Occidental carries derivative contracts it enters into in connection with its marketing activities at fair value. Fair values for these contracts are derived from Level 1 and Level 2 sources. The fair values in future maturity periods are insignificant. 

OXY 2020 FORM 10-K53

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES

The following table shows the fair value of Occidental’s derivatives (excluding collateral), segregated by maturity periods and by methodology of fair value estimation:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

QUANTITATIVE INFORMATION

Occidental uses value at risk to estimate the potential effects of changes in fair values of commodity contracts used in trading activities. This measure determines the maximum potential negative one day change in fair value with a 95% level of confidence. Additionally, Occidental uses complementary trading limits including position and tenor limits and maintains liquid positions as a result of which market risk typically can be neutralized or mitigated on short notice. As a result of these controls, Occidental believes that the market risk of its trading activities is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on its performance.

INTEREST RATE RISK

GENERAL

Occidental acquired interest rate swap contracts in the Acquisition. Occidental pays a fixed interest rate and receives a floating interest rate indexed to three-month LIBOR. The swaps have an initial term of 30 years with mandatory termination dates in September 2021 through 2023 and a total notional amount of approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, Occidental had a net liability of approximately $1.4 billion based on the fair value of the swaps of negative $1.8 billion netted against $374 million in posted cash collateral. A 25-basis point decrease in implied LIBOR rates over the term of the swaps would result in an additional liability of approximately $173 million on these swaps.

As of December 31, 2020, Occidental had variable rate debt with a notional value of $1.1 billion outstanding. A 25-basis point increase in LIBOR interest rates would increase gross interest expense approximately $3 million per year.

As of December 31, 2020, Occidental had fixed rate debt with a fair value of $32.7 billion outstanding. A 25-basis point change in Treasury rates would change the fair value of the fixed rate debt approximately $600 million.

TABULAR PRESENTATION OF INTEREST RATE RISK

The table below provides information about Occidental’s long-term debt obligations. Debt amounts represent principal payments by maturity date.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Excluded net unamortized debt premiums of $748 million and debt issuance cost of $156 million.

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

Occidental’s international operations have limited currency risk. Occidental manages its exposure primarily by balancing monetary assets and liabilities and limiting cash positions in foreign currencies to levels necessary for operating purposes. A vast majority of international oil sales are denominated in United States dollars. Additionally, all of Occidental’s consolidated 

54OXY 2020 FORM 10-K

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES

international oil and gas subsidiaries have the United States dollar as the functional currency. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of foreign currency derivatives used in the marketing operations was immaterial. The effect of exchange rates on transactions in foreign currencies is included in periodic income.

CREDIT RISK

The majority of Occidental’s counterparty credit risk is related to the physical delivery of energy commodities to its customers and any inability of these customers to meet their settlement commitments. Occidental manages credit risk by selecting counterparties that it believes to be financially strong, by entering into netting arrangements with counterparties and by requiring collateral or other credit risk mitigants, as appropriate. Occidental actively evaluates the creditworthiness of its counterparties, assigns appropriate credit limits and monitors credit exposures against those assigned limits. Occidental also enters into futures contracts through regulated exchanges with select clearinghouses and brokers, which are subject to minimal credit risk as a significant portion of these transactions settle on a daily margin basis.

Certain OTC derivative instruments contain credit-risk-contingent features, primarily tied to credit ratings for Occidental or its counterparties, which may affect the amount of collateral that each party would need to post. The fair value of derivative instruments with credit-risk-contingent features, that were net liabilities at December 31, 2020 was $104 million (net of $374 million collateral) and $787 million (net of $169 million collateral) at December 31, 2019. Credit-risk-contingent features are primarily related to interest rate swaps.

As of December 31, 2020, the substantial majority of the credit exposures were with investment grade counterparties. Occidental believes its exposure to credit-related losses at December 31, 2020, was not material and losses associated with credit risk have been insignificant for all years presented.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS HELD FOR NON-TRADING PURPOSES

As of December 31, 2020, Occidental had derivative instruments in place to reduce the price risk associated with future oil production of 350Mbbl/d. As of December 31, 2020, these derivative instruments were at a $42 million net derivative liability position.

The following table shows a sensitivity analysis based on both a 5% and 10% change in commodity prices and their effect on the net derivative liability position of $42 million at December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2020, Occidental had derivative instruments in place to reduce the price risk associated with future gas production of 530 thousand MMbtu/d. As of December 31, 2020, these derivative instruments were at a $25 million net derivative asset position.

The following table shows a sensitivity analysis based on both a 5% and 10% change in commodity prices and their effect on the net derivative asset position of $25 million at December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OXY 2020 FORM 10-K55

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

INDEX

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA