ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Pitney Bowes Inc. (we, us, our, or the company) is a global technology company providing commerce solutions that power billions of transactions. Clients around the world rely on the accuracy and precision delivered by our equipment, solutions, analytics, and application programming interface (API) technology in the areas of ecommerce fulfillment, shipping and returns, cross-border ecommerce, office mailing and shipping, presort services and financing. For more information about us, our products, services and solutions, visit www.pitneybowes.com.

Business Segments

Commerce Services

The Commerce Services group includes domestic parcel services, cross-border solutions, digital delivery services and mail sortation services. The Commerce Services group includes the Global Ecommerce and Presort Services segments. 

Global Ecommerce 

Domestic parcel services offers retailers a cost-effective parcel delivery and returns network for end consumers. We operate numerous domestic parcel sortation centers connected by a nationwide transportation network, enabling us to pick up parcels from retailer distribution centers and move them through our physical network. We also offer fulfillment services, providing pick, pack and ship services for clients through four fulfillment centers. These centers are located within our parcel sortation centers to facilitate same-day entry into our parcel delivery network. 

Cross-border solutions manages all aspects of the international shopping and shipping experience. Our proprietary technology enables global tracking and logistics services; calculates duty, tax and shipping costs at checkout; enables multi-currency pricing, payment processing and fraud management; ensures compliance with product restrictions and produces all documentation requirements to meet export complexities and customs clearance. Our proprietary technology is utilized by direct merchants and major online marketplaces facilitating millions of parcels to be shipped worldwide. 

Digital delivery services enables clients to reduce transportation and logistics costs, select the best carrier based on need and cost, improve delivery times and track packages in real-time. Powered by our shipping APIs, clients can purchase postage, print shipping labels and access shipping and tracking services from multiple carriers that can be easily integrated into any web application such as online shopping carts or ecommerce sites and provide guaranteed delivery times and flexible payment options. 

Presort Services

We are a workshare partner of the USPS and national outsource provider of mail sortation services that allow clients to qualify large volumes of First-Class Mail, Marketing Mail and Marketing Mail Flats and Bound Printed Matter for postal workshare discounts. Our network of operating centers throughout the United States and fully-customized proprietary technology provides clients with end-to-end solutions from pick up at their location to delivery into the postal system network, expedited mail delivery and optimal postage savings. 

Sending Technology Solutions

We offer our clients physical and digital mailing and shipping technology solutions, supplies and other applications to help simplify and save on the sending, tracking and receiving of letters, parcels and flats. Our cloud enabled infrastructure provides software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings delivered online and via connected or mobile devices. Our latest offerings are designed on an open platform architecture that have the capabilities to leverage partnerships with other innovative companies, including partnerships with carriers, and developers to deliver new value to our clients. 

Through our wholly owned subsidiary, The Pitney Bowes Bank (the Bank), we offer our clients in the United States a revolving credit solution that enables clients to make meter rental payments and purchase postage, services and supplies and an interest-bearing deposit solution to clients who prefer to prepay postage. Additionally, we offer financing alternatives that enable clients to finance equipment and product purchases, finance or lease other manufacturers’ equipment and provide working capital. 

We also provide revolving credit solutions to clients in Canada and the U.K. 

We establish credit approval limits and procedures based on the credit quality of the client and the type of product or service provided to control credit risk. We closely monitor the portfolio by analyzing industry sectors and delinquency trends by product line, industry and client to ensure reserve levels and credit policies reflect current trends. Management continuously monitors credit lines and collection resources and revises credit policies as necessary to be more selective in managing the portfolio.

4

Seasonality

A larger percentage of our revenue is earned in the fourth quarter relative to the other quarters, driven primarily by an increase in shipping volumes during the holiday season.

Sales and Services

We market our products, solutions and services through a direct and inside sales force, global and regional partner channels, direct mailings and digital channels. We provide call-center, online and on-site support services for our products and solutions. Support services are primarily provided under maintenance contracts.

Competition

Our businesses face competition from large, multinational companies and smaller, more narrowly focused regional and local firms. We compete on the basis of technology and innovation, breadth of product offerings, our ability to design and tailor targeted solutions to meet client needs, performance, service and support, price, quality and brand.

We must continue to invest in our current technologies, products and solutions, and in the development of new technologies, products and solutions in order to maintain and improve our competitive position. We frequently encounter new competitors as the markets in which we participate evolve and newer businesses enter our existing markets. 

A summary of the competitive environment for each of our segments is as follows:

Global Ecommerce

The domestic parcel services and cross-border solutions market includes competitors of various sizes, including companies with greater financial resources than us. Some of these competitors specialize in point solutions or freight forwarding services, are full-service ecommerce business process outsourcers and online marketplaces with international logistic support, or major global delivery services companies. We also face competition from companies that can offer both domestic and cross-border solutions in a single package which creates pricing leverage. The principal competitive factors include speed of delivery, reliability, functionality, ease of integration and use, scalability, innovation, support services and price. We compete based on the accuracy, reliability and scalability of our platform and logistics services, our ability to provide clients and their customers a one-stop full-service ecommerce experience and the ability to provide a more customized shipping solution than some of the larger competitors in the industry. 

Within digital delivery services, we compete with a wide range of technology providers who help make shipping easier and more cost-effective. These technology providers range from large, established companies to smaller companies offering negotiated carrier rates. The principal competitive factors include technology stability and reliability, innovation, access to preferred shipping rates and ease of integration with existing systems.

Presort Services

We face competition from regional and local presort providers, cooperatives of multiple local presort providers, consolidators and service bureaus that offer presort solutions as part of a larger bundle of outsourcing services. While not necessarily competitors in the traditional sense, large mail owners have the capability to presort their own mailings in-house, and could use excess capacity to offer presort services to others. The principal competitive factors include price, innovative service, delivery speed, tracking and reporting, industry expertise and economies of scale. Our competitive advantages include our extensive network of presort facilities capable of processing significant volumes and our innovative proprietary technology that provides clients with reliable, secure and precise services and maximum postage discounts. 

Sending Technology Solutions

We face competition from other mail equipment and solutions providers, companies that offer products and services as alternative means of message communications and those that offer on-line shipping and mailing products and services solutions. Additionally, as alternative communication methods in comparison to physical mail grow, our operations could be affected. We differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our breadth of physical and digital offerings, including cloud enabled SaaS and open platform architecture offerings; pricing; available financing and payment offerings; product reliability; support services; and our extensive knowledge of the shipping and mailing industry. 

Our financing operations face competition, in varying degrees, from large, diversified financial institutions, including leasing companies, commercial finance companies and commercial banks, as well as small, specialized firms. Not all our competitors are able to offer the same or similar financing and payment solutions that we offer, and we believe this is a source of competitive advantage that differentiates us from our competitors. 

5

Research, Development and Intellectual Property

We invest in research and development activities to develop new products and solutions, enhance the effectiveness and functionality of existing products and solutions and deliver high value technology and differentiated services in high value segments of the market. 

Third-Party Suppliers

We depend on third-party suppliers and outsource providers for a variety of services and product components, the hosting of our SaaS offerings, the logistics portion of our ecommerce business, and some non-core functions and operations. In certain instances, we rely on single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers and outsourcing vendors around the world because doing so is advantageous due to quality, price or lack of alternative sources. We have risk mitigation programs to monitor conditions affecting our suppliers' ability to fulfill expected commitments. We believe that our available sources for services, components, supplies and manufacturing are adequate.

Regulatory Matters 

We are subject to the regulations of postal authorities worldwide related to product specifications of our postage meters. Our Presort Services segment is also subject to regulations of the USPS. The Bank is chartered as an Industrial Bank under the laws of the State of Utah. The Bank and certain company affiliates that provide services to the Bank are subject to the regulations of the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. We are also subject to transportation regulations for various parts of our business, customs and trade regulations worldwide related to our cross-border shipping services and regulations concerning data privacy and security for our businesses that use, process and store certain personal, confidential or proprietary data. 

Human Capital 

We have more than 11,500 employees, with approximately 80% located in the United States and approximately 20% located outside the United States. We also rely on a contingent hourly workforce to supplement our full-time workforce to meet fluctuating demand. We seek to create a high-performance culture that will drive and sustain enhanced value for all our stakeholders. To attract, retain and engage the talent needed, we strive to maintain a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace, with equitable opportunities for growth and development, supported by strong compensation, benefits and health and wellness programs, and by programs that build connections between our employees and their communities. 

Diversity and Inclusion

We believe that a diverse workforce is critical to our success. We celebrate a rich mix of countries, cultures, ages, races, ethnicities, gender identities, sexual orientation, abilities and perspectives that showcase our humanity, differentiate us as individuals and enhance our businesses. We have received numerous external acknowledgments of our progress in diversity and inclusion over the years.

Employee Engagement and Development

We emphasize employee development and training and provide professional development initiatives, training, experiential learning and inclusion networks to our employees to enable them to advance their skills and achieve career goals. We also believe employee engagement is important to the company's success and conduct a survey annually that has had historically high participation rates as well as increasing engagement scores overall. 

Health, Safety and Wellness

We are committed to the health, safety and wellness of our employees. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of flexible and convenient health and wellness programs. 

In response to COVID-19, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, as well as the communities in which we operate, and which comply with government regulations. These changes included adjusting processes to enable social distancing, providing personal protective equipment, ongoing monitoring of the health of our employees, and contact tracing when an employee is diagnosed with COVID-19. We encourage employees capable of working remotely to do so and limit the number of employees who can be in any of our offices at any given time. 

Available Information

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, are available, free of charge, through the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investorrelations.pitneybowes.com or from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The other information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

6

Information About Our Executive Officers

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Effective January 29, 2021, Ms. Chadwick assumed the responsibilities of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

There are no family relationships among the above officers. The above officers have served in various executive positions with the company for at least the past five years except as follows:

Mr. Dies was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Sending Technology Solutions in October 2017. He joined the company in 2015 as President, Document Messaging Technologies (DMT). Prior to joining the company, Mr. Dies was employed at IBM where he held several leadership positions in North America, Europe, and Asia across diverse business units.

Mr. Zegras was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Global Ecommerce in July 2020. He joined the company in 2013 as President, Imagitas. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Zegras held several executive leadership positions, including at NBC Universal, Sharecare and Hearst Entertainment.

Ms. Chadwick joined the company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on January 29, 2021. Prior to joining the company, Ms. Chadwick was employed at GE Capital as President and CEO of GE Capital Global Legacy Solutions. Ms. Chadwick spent over 20 years at GEC Capital, where she held several executive positions, including Controller of GE Capital Americas and CFO at GE Capital Energy Financial Services. 

7

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS