ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

We are exposed to the impact of foreign exchange-related variability and earnings volatility on our foreign investments and interest rate changes. See our risk factors in Item 1A. Risk Factors, specifically Risks Related to our Global Operations and Risks Related to Financing and Capital. See also Notes 2 and 15 in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for more information about our foreign operations and derivative financial instruments. 

We monitor our market risk exposures using a sensitivity analysis. Our sensitivity analysis estimates the exposure to market risk sensitive instruments assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates at December 31, 2020. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized in the following sections. The sensitivity analysis is of limited predictive value. As a result, revenues and expenses, as well as our ultimate realized gains or losses with respect to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during a future period, hedging strategies at the time and the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 

Foreign Currency Risk 

We are exposed to foreign currency exchange variability related to investments in and earnings from our foreign investments. Foreign currency market risk is the possibility that our results of operations or financial position could be better or worse than planned because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We primarily hedge our foreign currency risk by borrowing in the currencies in which we invest thereby providing a natural hedge. Additionally, we hedge our foreign currency risk by entering into derivative financial  

43 

instruments that we designate as net investment hedges, as these amounts offset the translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of our foreign investments. At December 31, 2020, after consideration of our ability to borrow in the foreign currencies in which we invest and also derivative and nonderivative financial instruments as discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we had minimal net equity denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. 

For the year ended December 31, 2020, $442 million or 10.0% of our total consolidated revenue was denominated in foreign currencies. We enter into other foreign currency contracts, such as forwards, to reduce fluctuations in foreign currency associated with the translation of the future earnings of our international subsidiaries. We have forward contracts that were not designated as hedges, denominated principally in British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, euro and Japanese yen, and have an aggregate notional amount of $1.2 billion to mitigate risk associated with the translation of the future earnings of our subsidiaries denominated in these currencies. The gain or loss on settlement of these contracts is included in our earnings and offsets the lower or higher translation of earnings from our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although the impact to net earnings is mitigated through higher translated U.S. dollar earnings from these currencies, a weakening of the U.S. dollar against these currencies by 10% could result in a $116 million cash payment on settlement of these contracts. 

Interest Rate Risk 

We are also exposed to the impact of interest rate changes on future earnings and cash flows. To mitigate that risk, we generally borrow with fixed rate debt and we may use derivative instruments to fix the interest rate on our variable rate debt. At December 31, 2020, $14.9 billion of our debt bore interest at fixed rates and therefore the fair value of these instruments was affected by changes in market interest rates. At December 31, 2020, $2.0 billion of our debt bore interest at variable rates. The following table summarizes the future repayment of debt and scheduled principal payments at December 31, 2020 (dollars in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

At December 31, 2020, we had interest rate swap agreements to fix €150 million ($165 million) of our floating rate euro senior notes and $250 million of our multi-currency term loan, both of which were included in fixed rate debt. 

(2)  

The interest rates represent the effective interest rates (including amortization of the debt issuance costs and the noncash premiums and discounts) at December 31, 2020 for the debt outstanding. 

At December 31, 2020, the weighted average effective interest rate on our variable rate debt was 0.5%. Changes in interest rates can cause interest expense to fluctuate on our variable rate debt. On the basis of our sensitivity analysis, a 10% increase in interest rates on our average outstanding variable rate debt balances would result in additional annual interest expense of $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, which equates to a change in interest rates of 5 basis points on our average outstanding variable rate debt balances and 1 basis point on our average total debt portfolio balances. 

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data