PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

PURPOSE & STRATEGY

Signet Jewelers Limited’s (“Signet” or the “Company”) core belief is that “Love Inspires Love” and its mission is to enable all people to “Celebrate Life and Express Love.” The Company’s vision is to be the world’s premier jeweler by providing customers with superior shopping and ownership experiences, connecting with them seamlessly across channels, earning their trust, and providing superior expertise, value, products, and services to meet their lifetime jewelry needs and desires.

Signet continues to be the market share leader in North America in the large, growing and fragmented jewelry category, with the opportunity for additional growth as the Company leverages its strengths and competitive advantages.

Impact of COVID-19 on Signet’s strategy

The Company's strategy discussed herein does not take into account continuing or new material impacts of the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic. Beginning in late February 2020, this outbreak has had multiple impacts to the Company’s business, including, but not limited to, the temporary closure of all stores and other physical locations in North America and in the UK, and temporary disruption of the Company’s global supply chain. While the Company responded to this crisis with agility and innovation in order to deliver strong second half results in Fiscal 2021, despite incredible challenges, the full impact of the pandemic remains uncertain. Full economic and market recovery from the pandemic could take up to two or more years. As the Company continues to assess the full impact of COVID-19 on its business, it may ultimately decide to modify, delay or otherwise defer certain elements of its strategy. Refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors, for further potential impacts and risks associated with COVID-19.

From Path to Brilliance to Inspiring Brilliance

In Fiscal 2019, Signet launched a three-year comprehensive transformation plan, “Path to Brilliance,” to establish the Company as the OmniChannel jewelry category leader and to position its businesses for sustainable long-term growth. In the three years since Path to Brilliance was launched, the Company has delivered substantially against its three strategic priorities: Customer First, OmniChannel, and Culture of Agility and Efficiency. Customer First focused the Company’s energy; OmniChannel directed its investments; and Culture of Agility and Efficiency increased speed and drove out costs that customers don’t see or care about. The investments and new capabilities built during the past three years laid the foundation for strong results and momentum in the second half of Fiscal 2021.

While there is still significant value to be realized from the original Path to Brilliance strategic priorities, the fundamental objectives of this program have been achieved: Signet believes it is a much stronger Company today than it was three years ago – strategically, financially, and organizationally. After losing share to smaller specialty jewelry stores, online, and non-specialty retailers since Fiscal 2016, Signet returned to share growth in the back half of Fiscal 2021 as its Path to Brilliance strategies took hold. The Company outperformed competitors during the post-COVID-19 rebound, with growth consistently ahead of the total jewelry market, the mid-tier segment, and independent jewelers.

Now, the Company is transitioning into the next phase of its Path to Brilliance strategy, driven by its corporate purpose of Inspiring Love and focused on sustainable, industry-leading growth. This next phase of the strategy is a continuing journey that the Company defines as “Inspiring Brilliance” – the brilliance of delighting customers with products, services, and relationships inspired by the enduring power of love. The core objectives are to create a broader mid-market and to increase Signet’s share of that larger market as the industry leader.

Creating a Broader Mid-market: During its Path to Brilliance transformation, Signet went from share erosion in its core segments to share growth. Now, we believe the Company is well-positioned to lead growth of the mid-market by focusing on four “Where to Play” growth strategies:

•Win in Big Businesses: Invest in and keep the Company’s largest businesses healthy and growing by continuing to align Signet banners with the customers they serve best and leading innovation that will help ensure they win. Signet’s biggest banners – Kay Jewelers in the U.S., H. Samuel in the U.K., and People’s Jewellers in Canada – are all the #1 brands in their respective markets. Further, Signet is the market leader in the bridal category in each of these markets. Keeping these big businesses strong is an unrelenting priority for the Company.

•Accelerate Services: Signet will leverage an ongoing stream of services and experiences to connect and build bonds with Signet customers for a lifetime. The Company expects to expand and improve existing services (care/repair, extended service 

5
plans), deepen relationships with new piercing and financial services, and innovate with marketplace opportunities not yet available in the jewelry industry.

•Expand Accessible Luxury and Value: The Company intends to expand the mid-market segment by stretching up the top of the mid-tier with greater focus on accessible luxury and the bottom tier with greater focus on value. This includes our goal of growing Piercing Pagoda and Outlets over time into billion-dollar businesses.

•Lead Digital Commerce: As more consumers make more purchases online, the Company will aim to be present whenever, wherever and however customers want to engage. This means increasing the percentage of Signet’s business coming through eCommerce, its share of eCommerce purchases, and its participation in social commerce with bespoke content and influencers.

Evolving our Key Strengths: To win in these spaces, the Company will draw inspiration from its Purpose - Inspiring Love - and plans to leverage core strengths that it has grown substantially over the past three years: Consumer Inspired, Connected Commerce, and a Culture of Innovation and Agility.

•Consumer Inspired: When Signet began its Path to Brilliance journey, it focused on strengthening relationships with existing customers. Now, the Company is focused on further growing its customer base by drawing inspiration from inside and outside the jewelry industry to drive innovation. Signet’s ability to leverage data and access unique customer insights is emerging as a clear and sustainable competitive advantage.

•Connected Commerce: Signet moved from a bricks-and-mortar-centric business model to an OmniChannel strategy. Now, it is positioning itself to win with connected-commerce capabilities. By intentionally shifting the organization’s mindset from store-centric to consumer centric, Signet will innovate to bring the best of its people, stories and products to customers wherever, whenever and however they choose to browse, engage or shop in integrated and delightful ways. 

•Culture of Innovation and Agility: Signet is committed to be the innovation leader of every business in which it competes and to operate with the agility required to learn, grow and lead. The Company will continue to encourage leadership and fast-paced iterative learning at every level, to empower agile work teams, to inspire Design Thinking approaches to problem solving, and to nurture an environment in which innovation, diversity and transformational productivity are signature characteristics of the Signet culture.

OVERVIEW

Signet is the world’s largest retailer of diamond jewelry. Signet is incorporated in Bermuda and its address and telephone number are shown on the cover of this document. The Company operated 2,833 stores and kiosks as of January 30, 2021, and manages its business by geography, a description of which follows:

•The North America segment operated 2,381 locations in the US and 100 locations in Canada as of January 30, 2021. 

◦In the US, the segment primarily operated in malls and off-mall locations under the following banners: Kay (Kay Jewelers and Kay Outlet); Zales (Zales Jewelers and Zales Outlet); Jared (Jared The Galleria Of Jewelry and Jared Vault); and JamesAllen.com. Additionally, in the US, the segment operated mall-based kiosks under the Piercing Pagoda banner.

◦In Canada, the segment primarily operated under the Peoples banner (Peoples Jewellers).

•The International segment operated 352 stores in the UK, Republic of Ireland and Channel Islands as of January 30, 2021. 

Certain Company activities are managed in the “Other” segment for financial reporting purposes, including the Company’s diamond sourcing function and its diamond polishing factory in Botswana. See Note 5 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s reportable segments.

Competition and Signet Competitive Strengths

Jewelry retailing is highly fragmented and competitive. Signet competes against other specialty jewelers, as well as other retailers that sell jewelry, including department stores, mass merchandisers, discount stores, apparel and accessory fashion stores, brand retailers, online retail and auction sites, shopping clubs, home shopping television channels and direct home sellers. The jewelry category competes for customers’ share-of-wallet with other consumer sectors such as electronics, clothing and furniture, as well as travel and restaurants. This competition for consumers’ discretionary spending is particularly relevant to gift giving.

6
In addition to the core strengths noted above, Signet believes its competitive advantages include strong store banner recognition, outstanding customer experience, branded differentiated and exclusive merchandise, data-driven marketing and advertising, diversified real estate portfolio, an efficient and flexible supply chain, and services including financing and lease purchase options, extended service plans, repair and customer design, and piercing, among others.

OmniChannel

As a specialty jeweler, Signet’s business differs from many other retailers such that a purchase of merchandise from any of Signet’s stores is not only viewed as an important experience but is also personal and intimate. Due to this dynamic, customers often invest time on Signet websites, through conversational commerce and on social media to experience the merchandise assortments prior to visiting brick-and-mortar stores to execute a purchase transaction. Particularly related to high value transactions, customers will supplement their online experience with an in-store visit prior to finalizing a purchase.

Through Signet’s websites, the Company educates customers about the jewelry category, and provides them with a source of information on products, brands, and available merchandise, as well as the ability to buy online. Signet’s websites are integrated with a customer’s local store, so that merchandise ordered online may be delivered to their store or at home. Banner websites continue to make an important and growing contribution to the customer experience, as well as to each Segment’s marketing programs. Signet’s OmniChannel strategy will continue to focus on:

•Investments in technology to enhance the customer journey. These include developing AI driven conversational commerce, the ability to virtually try on products, visual search tools, configuration capability, jewelry related services enhanced personalization / behavioral targeting, creative execution and brand differentiation. In addition, Signet will continue to focus on customer first delivery options (such as buy online, pick up in store, “BOPIS”, same day delivery, curbside pickup), creating a seamless customer experience between the websites, virtual selling and in stores, making it easier for customers whenever and however they choose to shop with Signet. 

•The expansion of asynchronous messaging with intent recognition and the ability to route to the appropriate expert based on that intent recognition whether that be a sales expert for engagement rings, watches or other gifts, or service to an existing order or purchase. 

•Increased use of powerful customer-based data analytics to achieve a more comprehensive view of the customer, which is expected to allow the Company to follow up on previous purchases as well as anticipate their needs.

•Adding new capability to Signet’s digital customer clientele program, which enables the Company’s jewelry consultants to build a direct relationship with their customers to create a more personalized customer experience.

Signet’s supplier relationships allows the Company to display suppliers’ inventories on the banner websites for sale to customers without holding the items in its inventory until the products are ordered by customers, which are referred to as “virtual inventory.” Virtual inventory expands the choice of merchandise available to customers both online and in-store (see further in the Products and merchandising section below).

Customer experience

Signet is committed to delivering an inspiring, innovative, full service, seamlessly connected customer experience for our clients regardless of their channel of choice. The Company considers this an essential element in the success of its business. The ability to recruit, develop and retain qualified jewelry consultants is an important capability to deliver customer satisfaction. Signet has a comprehensive recruitment, training and incentive programs in place, including an annual flagship training conference in advance of the Holiday Season.

Signet continues to invest in capabilities to enhance the customer experience to make it more personalized and journey focused. In Fiscal 2019, Signet implemented a multi-phase Voice of the Customer program utilizing the Net Promoter System as a component of its Path to Brilliance transformation plan and customer first initiatives. The first phase focused on setting up the technology, establishing stable measurements throughout the shopping ecosystem for key customer journeys, and discovering how to effectively operationalize customer feedback. In Fiscal 2020, Signet expanded into phase two by providing all stores and digital properties localized access to Voice of the Customer data to manage the customer experience real-time as performance feedback is received. To further strengthen its engagement with customers, Signet also implemented a closed-loop program whereby field and customer care teams rapidly respond to customers directly about their feedback to ensure the Company is delivering the best possible experience. In Fiscal 2021, Signet continued to optimize the program through expanded measurements and listening posts, integrating Voice of the Customer with additional operational data-sources to drive greater sophistication in its customer and employee experience management, and develop additional tools to infuse the stories its customers share into the culture and their daily activities.

7
Banner operations

As noted above, the Company operates six banners in North America and two banners in the UK all of which operate through both online and brick and mortar retail operations. Signet has specific operating and financial criteria that must be satisfied before investing in new stores or renewing leases on existing stores, including evaluation of the mall/trade area and market potential. Substantially all of the stores operated by Signet are leased. Signet continues to reposition its store portfolio in a manner that it believes will drive greater store productivity. These efforts include development and implementation of innovative store concepts to improve the in-store shopping experience, execution of opportunistic store relocations and store closures aimed at exiting under-performing stores, reducing the Company’s mall-based exposure and exiting regional brands. 

The store activity was as follows for Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes 33 store repositions in Fiscal 2021 and 18 repositions in Fiscal 2020.

(2) Includes 133 thousand, 159 thousand, and 171 thousand square feet of net selling space in Canada as of January 30, 2021, February 1, 2020, and February 2, 2019, respectively.

(3) Includes mall-based kiosks for the Piercing Pagoda banner.

Refer to Item 2 for additional information on the Company’s real estate portfolio.

North America Banners

The North America segment operates jewelry stores in malls, mall-based kiosks and off-mall locations throughout the US and Canada and online under national banners including Kay, Zales, Jared, Peoples and Piercing Pagoda. Additionally, the Company operates online through JamesAllen.com, as well as each of the individual banner websites.

Kay Jewelers (“Kay”)

Kay is the largest specialty retail jewelry brand in the US based on sales. Kay operates in shopping malls, off-mall centers, outlet malls and online. Kay is positioned as the champion of modern love and gratitude, the #1 jeweler for bridal and all occasion-based gifting offering a broad assortment of fine jewelry including bridal, diamond solitaire, fashion jewelry and watches.

Kay accounted for 38% of Signet’s consolidated sales in Fiscal 2021 (Fiscal 2020: 39%). 

Zales Jewelers (“Zales”)

Zales Jewelers is the third largest specialty retail jewelry brand in the US, based on sales. Zales operates primarily in shopping malls, outlet malls, neighborhood power centers and online. Zales “The Diamond Store” is positioned as the style and self-expression fine jewelry authority, an emphasis on fashion oriented bridal, gifting and self-purchase consumers offering a broad range of bridal, diamond solitaire, fashion jewelry and watches.

Zales accounted for 22% of Signet’s consolidated sales in Fiscal 2021 (Fiscal 2020: 21%).

Jared The Galleria Of Jewelry (“Jared”)

Jared, which offers the broadest selection of merchandise, is the fourth largest US specialty retail jewelry brand by sales and is a leading off-mall destination specialty retail jewelry store chain. Jared is positioned with an “accessible luxury” assortment and additional services to appeal to a higher income customer and deliver higher average price points than Kay and Zales. Every Jared store has an on-site design and service center where most repairs are completed within the same day.

8
Jared locations are normally free-standing sites with high visibility and traffic flow, positioned close to major roads within shopping developments. Jared stores usually operate in retail centers that contain strong retail co-tenants, including big box, destination stores and some smaller specialty units.

Jared also operates an outlet-mall concept known as Jared Vault. These stores are smaller than off-mall Jared stores and offer a mix of identical products as Jared, as well as different, outlet-specific products at lower prices.

Jared accounted for 18% of Signet’s consolidated sales in Fiscal 2021 (Fiscal 2020: 18%).

Piercing Pagoda

Piercing Pagoda, the curated jewelry and piercing services brand, empowers its customers to express themselves with affordably priced selections of basic and fashion gold, silver and diamond jewelry, as well its newly launched premium VIP Collection. The brand operates online and through mall-based kiosks in high-traffic areas across the US that are easily accessible and visible in regional shopping malls. During Fiscal 2021, Piercing Pagoda implemented robust COVID-19-related hygiene protocols. The brand offers virtual styling sessions, giving customers a new digital shopping experience. Pagoda also began expanding its facial piercing offerings with the introduction of hollow needle piercing in initial, select markets, seeing opportunity to leverage this growing trend.

Piercing Pagoda accounted for 6% of Signet’s consolidated sales in Fiscal 2021 (Fiscal 2020: 5%).

JamesAllen.com (“James Allen”)

Unlike the rest of Signet store banners, James Allen does not principally operate in physical retail stores. During Fiscal 2019, the first James Allen concept store and showroom was launched in Washington D.C. featuring advances in digital technology and a millennial-inspired shopping experience. This store enables the Company to test new concepts and incorporate innovation in new store design plans for all of the Company’s banners.

 James Allen accounted for 6% of Signet’s consolidated sales in Fiscal 2021 (Fiscal 2020: 4%).

Peoples Jewellers (“Peoples”)

Peoples is Canada’s largest jewelry retailer and is positioned as “Canada’s #1 Diamond Store” emphasizing its diamond business while also offering a wide selection of gold jewelry, gemstone jewelry and watches. Peoples operates primarily in shopping malls and online. 

Peoples accounted for 3% of Signet’s consolidated sales in Fiscal 2021 (Fiscal 2020: 3%).

International Banners

The International segment operates primarily in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. The International segment transacts mainly in British pounds, as sales and the majority of operating expenses are incurred in that currency.

H.Samuel

H.Samuel has 150 years of jewelry heritage, with a target customer focused on inexpensive fashion-trend oriented, everyday jewelry. H.Samuel continues to focus on larger store formats in regional shopping centers.

H.Samuel accounted for 3% of Signet’s consolidated sales in Fiscal 2021 (Fiscal 2020: 4%).

Ernest Jones

Ernest Jones serves the upper middle market, with a target customer focused on high-quality, timeless jewelry. 

Ernest Jones accounted for 4% of Signet’s consolidated sales in Fiscal 2021 (Fiscal 2020: 4%).

Products and merchandising 

Signet believes that a competitive strength is its industry-leading merchandising. Merchandise selection, innovation, availability and value are all critical success factors. The range of merchandise offered and the high level of inventory availability are supported centrally by extensive and continuous research and testing. Signet’s jewelry merchant teams are constantly evaluating global design trends, innovating, and developing new jewelry collections, including through strategic partnerships, that resonate with customers.

Suppliers

In Fiscal 2021, the five largest suppliers collectively accounted for 18.7% of total purchases, with the largest supplier comprising 4.7%. Signet transacts business with suppliers on a worldwide basis at various stages of the supply chain with third party diamond cutting and jewelry manufacturing being predominantly carried out in Asia.

9
Merchandise

Details of merchandise mix by major product category (excluding repairs, extended service plans and other miscellaneous sales) are shown below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The bridal category, which includes engagement, wedding and anniversary purchases, is predominantly diamond jewelry. Like fashion jewelry and watches, bridal is to an extent dependent on the economic environment as customers can trade up or down price points depending on their available budget. Bridal represented 49% of Signet’s total merchandise sales.

The fashion category is significantly impacted by gift giving in the Holiday Season, Valentine’s Day and Mother’s Day time periods and represented 44% of Signet’s total merchandise sales during Fiscal 2021.

Merchandise is categorized as non-branded, third party branded, and branded differentiated and exclusive. Non-branded merchandise includes items and styles such as bracelets, gold necklaces, solitaire diamond rings, and diamond stud earrings. Third party branded merchandise includes mostly watches. Branded differentiated and exclusive merchandise are items that are branded and exclusive to Signet within its marketplaces, or that are not widely available from other jewelry retailers (e.g Vera Wang Love®, Neil Lane®, Disney Enchanted®).

Signet believes that the development of branded differentiated and exclusive merchandise raises the profile of its banners, helps to drive sales and provides its well-trained sales associates with a powerful selling proposition. Digital marketing and national television advertisements include elements that drive brand awareness and purchase intent of these ranges. Signet’s scale and proven record of success in developing branded differentiated and exclusive merchandise attracts offers of such programs from jewelry manufacturers, designers and others ahead of competing retailers, and enables it to leverage its supply chain strengths.

Merchandise held on consignment is used to enhance product selection and test new designs. This minimizes exposure to changes in fashion trends and provides the flexibility to return non-performing merchandise. Virtually all of Signet’s consignment inventory is held in the US.

Raw materials 

The Company’s costs, as with the jewelry industry as a whole, are generally affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold and, to a much lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. The cost of raw materials is only part of the costs involved in determining the retail selling price of jewelry, with labor costs and assembly costs from third party vendors also being significant factors.

Diamond sourcing

Signet procures its diamonds mostly as finished jewelry and, to a smaller extent, as loose polished diamonds and rough diamonds which are in turn polished, primarily in Signet’s Botswana factory. 

Signet purchases finished product where management has identified compelling value based on product design, cost and availability, among other factors. Under certain types of arrangements, this method of purchasing also provides the Company with the opportunity to reserve inventory held by vendors and to make returns or exchanges with suppliers, which reduces the risk of over- or under-purchasing. Signet’s scale, balance sheet and robust procurement systems enable it to purchase merchandise at advantageous prices and on favorable terms.

10
Signet purchases loose polished diamonds in global markets (e.g. India, Israel) from a variety of sources (e.g. polishers, traders). Signet mounts stones in settings purchased from manufacturers using third parties and in-house resources. By using these approaches, the cost of merchandise is reduced and the consistency of quality is maintained enabling Signet to provide better value to customers. Buying loose diamonds helps allow Signet’s buyers to gain a detailed understanding of the manufacturing cost structures and, in turn, leverage that knowledge with regard to negotiating better prices for the supply of finished products.

Signet continues to take steps to advance its vertical integration, which includes rough diamond sourcing and processing. Signet’s objective with this initiative is to secure additional, reliable and consistent supplies of diamonds for customers worldwide while achieving further efficiencies in the supply chain. Signet owns a diamond polishing factory in Gaborone, Botswana. The Company is a DeBeers sightholder, and receives contracted allocations of rough diamonds from DeBeers and Alrosa. Signet has also established a diamond liaison office in India and a diamond trading office in New York to further support its sourcing initiative.

Rough diamonds are purchased directly from the miners and then the stones are marked, cut and polished in Signet’s own polishing facility. Any stones deemed unsuitable for Signet’s needs are sold to third parties on the open market.

Marketing and advertising

Marketing is one of Signet’s most critical investments. It generates customer awareness and purchase considerations, and over time strengthens its banners and drives share growth. Effective and efficient marketing investment is a competitive advantage in the jewelry industry, which involves a discretionary purchase where the majority of the merchandise is not branded and the purchase cycle can stretch to years.

Signet’s marketing allocations between the various investment options (broadcast television and radio, direct mail, digital marketing, social media, and in store materials) have evolved over time as consumer habits and business needs change. Spend decisions are driven by the best available facts, which now use some of the most sophisticated tools on the market. In particular, marketing spend is evaluated on return-on-investment (“ROI”) wherever possible. Signet has developed sophisticated Market Mix Modeling, which separates out the ROI of individual marketing elements using multi-variant regression analysis. As marketing is at the heart of Signet’s customer first mindset, this capability has resulted in significant increases in the ROI of the Company’s marketing investments over the past two years. 

As marketing activities are undertaken throughout the year, digital capabilities provide close to real-time insight into customer journeys enabling personalized journey-based communications at the most appropriate moment through social media and digital marketing. In Fiscal 2021, Signet continued to transform its marketing model by re-balancing the timing and mix of its media investments, leveraging a more personalized journey-based approach, and modernizing its content and messaging. In Fiscal 2021, Signet continued to invest more on digital and social marketing than on television advertising, and significant media efficiencies enabled it to drive more total customer impressions with less spend per impression. While the Company will maintain its strong presence in the traditional time-based holidays (Valentine’s Day, Mother’s Day, and the Holiday Season), Fiscal 2021 also paved the way for it to use complex customer data to grow its share of personal gifting occasions such as birthdays and anniversaries, as well as continue its emphasis in “always on” bridal messaging.

Signet aims to optimize the effectiveness of its creative campaigns, building on the banner differentiation strategies. The banners work with a portfolio of creative agencies and a data-savvy media agency. The banners have rigorously tested advertising to qualify content across platforms, which has improved the effectiveness of Signet’s campaigns. Through collaboration with these agencies, Signet continues to evolve its campaigns with more sophisticated, journey specific content based on in-depth customer insight.

Details of gross advertising (i.e. advertising before vendor contributions) by segment is shown below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other sales and services

Custom design services represent less than 5% of sales. Signet’s custom jewelry sales uses a proprietary computer selling system and in-store design capabilities. Design & Service Centers, located in Jared stores, are staffed with skilled artisans who support the custom business generated by other North American stores. The custom design and repair business has its own field management and training structure.

Repair services represent less than 5% of sales but are an important opportunity to build customer loyalty. The Jared Design & Service Centers, open the same hours as the store, also support other North American stores’ repair business.

11
The North America segment sells extended service plans covering lifetime repair service for jewelry and jewelry replacement plans. The Design & Service Centers also services the lifetime repair service plans for Kay, Zales and Jared in addition to supporting the chargeable repairs and custom businesses. The lifetime repair service plans cover services such as ring sizing, refinishing and polishing, rhodium plating of white gold, earring repair, chain soldering and the resetting of diamonds and gemstones that arise due to the normal usage of the merchandise or a replacement option if the merchandise cannot be repaired. The extended service plans are a valuable part of the customer experience and product offerings. These plans provide the Company a higher rate of profitability than merchandise sales and are a significant component of Signet’s operating income. Jewelry replacement plans require the issuance of new replacement merchandise if the original merchandise is determined to be defective or damaged within a defined period in accordance with the plan agreement. The North America segment also offers customers a two-year fine watch warranty. Additionally, Zales and Piercing Pagoda offer a one-year jewelry replacement program, which requires the issuance of new replacement merchandise if the original merchandise is determined to be defective or damaged in accordance with the plan agreement. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 for further information on these plans.

Customer finance

Several factors inherent in the US jewelry business support the circumstances through which Signet is positioned to generate profitable incremental business through its partner supported consumer payment programs. These factors include a high average transaction value and a significant population of customers seeking to finance merchandise, primarily in the bridal category. Signet’s consumer credit and lease programs are an integral part of its business and a major driver of customer loyalty. In North American markets, customers are offered revolving and promotional credit plans under Signet’s private label credit card programs, online payment options, a lease purchase option provided by Progressive Lease, and installment loan and split-payment options provided by Affirm, allowing Signet to offer payment options that meet each customer’s individual needs. In addition, the Company has partnerships with third-party providers who directly extend credit to its customers, and who also manage and service the customers’ accounts.

Below is a summary of the payment participation rate in North America which reflects activity for in-house and outsourced credit program customers in North America, including Kay, Jared, Zales and Piercing Pagoda customers, as well as lease purchase customers:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Through Signet’s partnerships, the Company is able to offer a range of financing, leasing, and payment opportunities across its banners. The Company continues to find and develop new options to meet its customer’s needs across the various merchandise price points. These offerings and partnerships allow the Company to focus on its core business of being the premier jewelry partner for its customers.

Comenity Bank provides credit and services to the Zales and Piercing Pagoda banners and to prime-only credit quality customers for Kay and Jared banners. Genesis Financial Solutions (“Genesis”) provides a second look program for applicants declined by Comenity Bank. For Kay and Jared banners, Signet originates non-prime receivables and sells them subject to a contractually agreed upon discount rate to funds managed by CarVal Investors (“CarVal”), Genesis, and Castlelake, L.P. (“Castlelake”). CarVal and Castlelake first began purchasing non-prime receivables in June 2018, and Genesis began purchasing non-prime receivables in January 2021 (CarVal, Castlelake, and Genesis are herein referred to, collectively, as the “Investors”). Servicing of the non-prime receivables, including operational interfaces and customer servicing, is provided by Genesis. 

As a result of various agreements with the Investors during Fiscal 2021, Signet maintained all non-prime receivables for newly originated accounts from April 23, 2020 to January 11, 2021, and will continue to maintain add-on purchases for those accounts. Beginning January 11, 2021, CarVal and Genesis began purchasing the non-prime receivables on all newly originated accounts, while all Investors will continue to purchase add-on receivables on existing accounts previously purchased. These agreements are effective until June 30, 2021. Refer to Note 4 in Item 8 for additional information related to these transactions.

HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

Signet’s People First approach

At Signet, our approach to Human Capital management starts with our core value of “People First” and creating a truly attractive, inclusive and productive company culture. We believe that thriving employees are integral to Signet’s success. Our Path to Brilliance transformation strategy was inspired by our confidence in the brilliance of the Signet team and our commitment to their success and personal growth. As a retail company, sales and customer relationships are at the core of our business model. Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop, and retain highly engaged and motivated employees. Our emphasis on rewarding our hourly employees 

12
with fair wages and competitive benefits provides a compelling package. In Fiscal 2021, Signet was named a Great Place to Work-Certified™ Company which reflects the pride, belonging and confidence of employees throughout our organization. This is a recognition that we are proud and honored to hold and we attribute this accolade to our human capital management efforts. In addition, Signet was named to the Bloomberg® Gender Equality Index for the third year in a row – the only specialty retail jeweler to do so.

Employees and demographics

As of January 30, 2021, the approximate number of full-time equivalent persons employed at Signet was 21,700 compared to 26,100 for Fiscal 2020. Approximately 90% of the Company’s workforce was employed in North America. As of January 30, 2021, our North America employees consisted of 75% female and 37% Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (“BIPOC”). Breaking down our BIPOC representation further, our employees are 13% Black, 14% Hispanic or Latinx, 5% Asian, 3% Multiracial, < 1% American Indian or Alaskan Native, and < 1% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander. Additionally, 41% of our employees are over the age of 40.

Diversity, equity and inclusion 

We value building a diverse workforce, embracing different perspectives, and fostering an inclusive, empowering work environment for our employees and customers. Our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts transcend all levels of our Company, from our base-level employees through our leadership team and Board of Directors (“Board”). Currently, 58 percent of our Board are gender or ethnically diverse, including five female Board members, and 60 percent of our senior vice presidents and above are gender and/or ethnically diverse. In addition, we have a long-standing commitment to equal employment opportunity, as evidenced by the Company's Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. In response to the Great Place to Work®Trust Index© Employee Survey, 89 percent of Signet employees responded, "People here are treated fairly regardless of race." Furthermore, we recognize our customer base's diversity and strive to have a workforce that is representative of such customers. 

We are committed to advancing diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace. We have implemented measures to ensure accountability through initiatives such as empowering Business Resource Groups, which are employee-led volunteer groups to improve attraction, retention, inclusion, and engagement of a diverse workforce by developing programming and initiatives. Currently, we have six Business Resource Groups: Veterans, Pride (LGBTQ+), Women, Black Employee Network, Young Professionals, and Transforming Diversity Equity and Equality (“TIDE”). In addition, during Fiscal 2021 we launched a series of town halls entitled “Signet Speaks Out” to provide a safe, open forum for employees to have honest and candid discussions about important topics such as racism. In addition, as part of our commitment to continued enhancements in our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, we require employees to undergo annual training on unconscious bias and microaggressions. 

Board oversight

Our Board plays an active role in overseeing our human capital management efforts. The full Board has worked closely with the executive management team, particularly the Chief People Officer, in helping shape the newly defined culture and focus. The Board oversight activities in this area include review of CEO and executive officer succession planning, review of diversity and other employee metrics, employee experience, and review of the Company's annual employee engagement survey results. In February 2021, the Board of Directors expanded the scope of our Compensation Committee by re-chartering it as the Human Capital Management and Compensation Committee (“Committee”). The Board had oversight responsibility for a wide range of human capital management efforts, but it was dispersed across multiple committees. We have now taken a much more integrated, holistic and focused approach to this critical responsibility. In addition to its compensation governance responsibilities, the Committee provides oversight on behalf of the Board to overall management of human capital including culture, diversity and inclusion, executive compensation programs, benefits and well-being strategy, talent management (attraction, development, and retention), performance management, and succession planning. The expanded scope of this Committee underscores our focus on the quality, performance, retention and development of our team.

Compensation and benefits 

Critical to our success is identifying, recruiting, retaining, and incentivizing our existing and prospective employees. We provide our employees with access to flexible and convenient medical benefits programs intended to meet their needs and the needs of their families. In addition to standard medical coverage, we offer eligible employees dental and vision coverage, health savings, flexible spending accounts, paid time off, employee assistance programs, voluntary short-term and long-term disability insurance, term life insurance and a 401(k) Savings Plan in the US. We design our benefit packages to meet or exceed local laws and to be competitive in the marketplace.

Full-time hourly employees are eligible for health insurance, parental leave, paid time off, and tuition assistance. Also, we launched our "Your Voice is Gold" campaign, and employees received paid time off to vote in the 2020 election. In 2020, we enhanced and expanded health plan benefits for same-sex domestic partners/spouses and LGBTQ employees. Health insurance and parental leave 

13
benefits include same-sex partners, and health insurance benefits include adoption benefits for LGBTQ families. All parents, regardless of gender, are eligible for parental leave benefits.

Our emphasis on rewarding our hourly employees with fair wages, including our commitment under our Love Takes Care™ Program to move to a $15/hour minimum wage, and competitive benefits is one of the integral ways we show our appreciation and support our employees. This fundamental approach to human capital management is intended to attract and retain a talented and diverse workforce, who provide significant value to our customers, Company and stakeholders. For more information on the Love Takes Care™ Program, see below under “COVID-19 Response.”

COVID-19 response

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including state and federal guidelines, we prioritized the health and safety of our employees and implemented changes that we determined were in their best interests, as well as the communities in which we operate. Effective March 23, 2020, we temporarily closed all of our stores in North America, our diamond operations in New York, and our support centers in the United States. Effective March 24, 2020, we also temporarily closed all of its stores in the UK. While a significant number of our employees were furloughed as a result of the store closures, we continued their health benefits during the furloughs.

We believe the human capital management efforts we leveraged during the COVID-19 pandemic significantly contributed to our financial success in Fiscal 2021 and will continue to provide ongoing benefits to our employees and the Company. In an effort to educate and protect our workforce from COVID-19, we enhanced our health and safety measures for our retail store, distribution center and support center employees, including COVID-19 self-care and safety training, return to work procedures and protocols, and COVID-19 symptom screenings. To protect our customers and employees, all customers and employees were required to wear masks while in the workplace regardless of state mandates. We also implemented curbside pickup to protect employees and customers and trained 750 virtual jewelry consultants to work from home and service customers via our digital platforms. Virtual jewelry consultants will remain as part of Signet's digital strategy as we advance.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, Signet implemented its Love Takes Care™ Program to protect employees' health and safety and later expanded the program to include expanded pay as compensation for outstanding performance. The Company's commitment to supporting employees under its Love Takes Care™ initiative includes several recent highlights. Signet awarded a $500 bonus to full-time employees and $250 to part-time employees in appreciation for their significant efforts and agility throughout the pandemic; and granted all employees four hours of paid time off to obtain COVID-19 vaccines.

Most of our support center employees have been able to work from home since March 2020, and many will be given the choice to work from home on an ongoing basis, or split time between working from home and the office, which protects their safety and provides continued flexibility. In addition, our remote work opportunities have allowed us to acquire top talent from around the country to fill open roles. This fundamental shift will continue to enable us to hire and retain top talent far into the future.

Communications and employee sentiment

Communication efforts are one of our key strategies to engage, educate and unite our employees, particularly during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. During the pandemic, we elevated our communication activities in order to engage our employees, increasing the number of communication events through virtual means at all levels. Results from these communication events revealed greatly enhanced employee sentiment ratings. For example, post communication event surveys revealed surveyed employees gave scores above 90% for questions related to transparency of the communication, understanding of the business strategy and leadership.

Collective bargaining

We respect our employees' rights to organize and engage in bargaining in good faith to reach a collective agreement that meets employees' needs. Our diamond polishing factory employees in Gaborone, Botswana, are covered by a collective bargaining agreement (represents less than 1% of Signet’s total employees). None of our employees in the U.K. and North America are covered by collective bargaining agreements.

14
MARKETS

Signet operates in the US, Canada and UK markets.

US

According to the US Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total jewelry and watch market was approximately $76 billion at the end of 2020, an increase of 0.4% from the prior year. This implies a Signet jewelry and watch market share of approximately 6.2%. Since 2010, the industry average annual growth rate is 2.3%. Around 82% of the market is represented by jewelry, with the balance being attributable to watches. According to the latest data from the US Labor Department, as of September 2020 there were approximately 19,300 jewelry stores in the country, down 1.6% from the prior year.

Canada

Prior to 2020, the jewelry and watch market in Canada, according to the latest data available to Signet from Euromonitor, grew steadily since 2014, rising to an estimated $6.8 billion USD in 2019. However, COVID-19 impacted growth in 2020, and Euromonitor estimated a market size of $5.6 billion USD, representing a decrease of 18% from the previous year. From 2021 through 2025, Euromonitor predicts jewelry will record a 4% current value CAGR (a 2% value CAGR at constant 2020 prices).

UK

In the UK, the jewelry and watch market was estimated at about £7.3 billion in 2020, down approximately 19% from the prior year, according to Euromonitor. This decline was driven largely by COVID-19, which impacted fine jewelry particularly hard. Beginning in 2021, Euromonitor estimates jewelry is expected to record a 5% current value CAGR (3% CAGR at 2020 constant prices) to reach £4.6 billion in 2025.

TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES

Signet is not dependent on any material patents or licenses in any of its segments. Signet has several well-established trademarks and trade names which are significant in maintaining its reputation and competitive position in the jewelry retailing industry. Some of these registered trademarks and trade names include the following:

•Kay Jewelers®; Kay Jewelers Outlet®; Jared The Galleria Of Jewelry®; Jared Vault®; Jared Jewelry Boutique®; Every Kiss Begins with Kay®; Jared Eternity®; Celebrate Life Express Love®; the Leo Diamond® ; Hearts Desire®; Chosen by Jared®; Now and Forever®; Ever Us®; James Allen®; Long Live LoveTM; Dare to be Devoted®; Love + Be Loved®; Brilliant Moments®; and Closer TogetherTM

•Zales®; Zales JewelersTM; Zales the Diamond Store®; Zales Outlet®; Gordon’s Jewelers®; Peoples Jewellers®; Peoples the Diamond Store®; Peoples Outlet the Diamond Store®; Mappins®; Piercing Pagoda®; Arctic Brilliance Canadian Diamonds®; Brilliant Buy®; Brilliant Value®; Celebration Diamond®; Expressionist®; From This Moment®; Let Love Shine®; The Celebration Diamond Collection®; Unstoppable Love®; Endless Brilliance®; and Everything You AreTM

•H.Samuel®; Ernest Jones®; Ernest Jones Outlet CollectionTM; Commitment®; Forever Diamonds®; Kiss Collection®; Princessa Collection®; Radiance®; Secrets of the Sea®; Viva Colour®; It Feels Good To GiftTM; and With You ForeverTM. 

SEASONALITY

Signet’s business is seasonal, with the fourth quarter accounting for approximately 35-40% of annual sales as well as accounts for a substantial portion of the annual operating profit. The “Holiday Season” consists of results for the months of November and December, with December being the highest volume month of the year.

REGULATION

Signet is required to comply with numerous laws and regulations covering areas such as consumer protection, consumer privacy, data protection, consumer credit, consumer credit insurance, health and safety, waste disposal, supply chain integrity, truth in advertising and employment. Signet monitors changes in these laws to maintain compliance with applicable requirements.

IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE

Signet recognizes that climate change is a serious risk to society and therefore continues to take steps to reduce Signet’s impact on the environment.

Adverse effects of climate change, such as extreme weather events, particularly over a prolonged period of time, could negatively impact the Company’s business and results of operations if such conditions limit our consumers ability to access our stores, cause our consumers to limit discretionary spending, or disrupt our supply chains or distribution channels.

15
AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Signet files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such information, and amendments to reports previously filed or furnished, is available free of charge from the Company’s corporate website, www.signetjewelers.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains the Company’s filings.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS