ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The discussion and analysis in this Item 7 is intended to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding the significant factors affecting the Company’s consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital resources. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. This discussion contains forward-looking statements and information. The Company's actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.”

This management's discussion and analysis provides comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020. For a comparison of Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019, refer to Item 7 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 1, 2020 filed with the SEC on March 26, 2020.

OVERVIEW

Impact of COVID-19 on Signet’s business

In December 2019, a novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) was identified in Wuhan, China. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic as a result of the further spread of the virus into all regions of the world, including those regions where the Company’s primary operations occur in North America and the UK. COVID-19 has significantly impacted consumer traffic and the Company’s retail sales, based on the perceived public health risk and government-imposed quarantines and restrictions of public gatherings and commercial activity to contain spread of the virus.

Effective March 23, 2020, the Company temporarily closed all of its stores in North America, its diamond operations in New York and its support centers in the United States. Additionally, effective March 24, 2020, the Company temporarily closed all of its stores in the UK. The COVID-19 pandemic has also disrupted the Company’s global supply chain, including the temporary closure of the Company’s diamond polishing operations in Botswana, and may cause additional disruptions to operations if employees of the Company become sick, are quarantined, or are otherwise limited in their ability to work at Company locations or travel for business. While the Company experienced a temporary disruption in its James Allen New York distribution center, the Company has continued to fill substantially all of its eCommerce orders during Fiscal 2021.

The Company continues to actively monitor and manage the situation related to its store and support center operations at the local level focusing on the best interests of its employees, customers, suppliers and shareholders. Beginning in May 2020, Signet initiated a measured approach to store re-openings based on health and safety standards, as well as regional customer demand. As of the end of the third quarter of Fiscal 2021, the Company had re-opened substantially all of its stores in North America and the UK. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021, both the UK and certain Canadian provinces re-established mandated temporary closure of non-essential businesses. Canadian stores began re-opening periodically in February 2021 as provincial restrictions were lifted, and the UK stores are expected to open in April 2021. Management will continue to monitor the re-opening of these locations, with a priority and focus on safety.

The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly altered the retail climate and the Company is navigating that change by accelerating its application of the key strategic initiatives developed over the past three years including the Company’s focus on becoming an OmniChannel leader, focusing on the needs of its customers, removing non-customer facing costs, and optimizing its real estate footprint. The Company continues to maintain its cost diligence efforts and net structural cost savings of $115 million exceeded expectations in Fiscal 2021. Total three-year net cost savings through the end of Fiscal 2021 related to the Company’s Path to Brilliance transformation plan are approximately $300 million compared to the original target of $225 million. During Fiscal 2021, the Company has permanently closed 395 store locations (excluding repositions) under the acceleration of its previously announced real estate initiatives. 

During Fiscal 2021, the Company has also taken numerous actions to maximize its financial flexibility, bolster its cash position and reduce operating expenditures, both strategically and as temporary measures as a result of COVID-19. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below.

34
Outlook

Signet’s sales grew 1.5% during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021 compared to the prior comparable quarter, reflecting a combination of factors including the shift in consumer spend related to the Stimulus received and travel restrictions implemented in Fiscal 2021 and the continued traction of Signet's Path to Brilliance strategies. Higher conversion rates and transaction values, both online and in-store, also helped to drive overall sales performance during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021. In Fiscal 2022, the Company will transition into the next phase of its Path to Brilliance strategy, called Inspiring Brilliance, which will be focused on sustainable, industry-leading growth. As described in the Purpose and Strategy section within Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company will focus on leveraging its core strengths that it has grown substantially over the past three years with the goal of creating a broader mid-market and increasing Signet’s share of that larger market as the industry leader.

It is not clear what the full extent of the COVID-19 impacts will be on the Company’s business during Fiscal 2022 or longer term, and whether the strong results in the second half of Fiscal 2021 will continue, especially toward the latter part of Fiscal 2022. Continued uncertainty surrounding multiple factors, including the magnitude and potential resurgence of COVID-19 in key trade areas, extended duration of heightened unemployment, supply chain disruptions and macro or governmental influences on consumers’ ability to spend, particularly in discretionary categories like jewelry. Further, as the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, the pace of the economic recovery and shifts in consumer discretionary spending away from the jewelry category toward experience-oriented categories, particularly in the second half of the year, may impact the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in Fiscal 2022. 

Market and operating conditions

The Company faces a highly competitive and dynamic retail landscape throughout the geographies where it does business, as well as a challenging macro-economic and political environment in the UK market. Refer to Item 1 for further information on the Company’s business, markets and strategy.

Exchange translation impact

Monthly average exchange rates are used to prepare the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. In Fiscal 2022, it is anticipated a five percent movement in the British pound to US dollar exchange rate would impact the Company’s income before income taxes by approximately $2.2 million, while a five percent movement in the Canadian dollar to US dollar exchange rate would impact the Company’s income before income taxes by approximately $1.1million.

NON-GAAP MEASURES

The discussion and analysis of Signet’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based upon the consolidated financial statements of Signet which are prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read in conjunction with Signet’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8. A number of non-GAAP measures are used by management to analyze and manage the performance of the business, and the required disclosures for these non-GAAP measures are shown below.

Signet provides such non-GAAP information in reporting its financial results to give investors additional data to evaluate its operations. Management does not, nor does it suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP measures in isolation from, or in substitution for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.

1. Net cash (debt)

Net cash (debt) is a non-GAAP measure defined as the total of cash and cash equivalents less loans, overdrafts and long-term debt. Management considers this metric to be helpful in understanding the total indebtedness of the Company after consideration of liquidity available from cash and cash equivalents held by the Company.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35
2. Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure defined as the net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment. Management considers this to be helpful in understanding how the business is generating cash from its operating and investing activities that can be used to meet the financing needs of the business. Free cash flow is an indicator used by management frequently in evaluating its overall liquidity and determining appropriate capital allocation strategies. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary purposes. In Fiscal 2019, net cash provided by operating activities included $445.5 million in proceeds received in connection with the sale of the Company’s non-prime credit card receivable portfolio. See Note 4 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the sale of the in-house credit card receivable portfolio.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3. Non-GAAP operating income (loss)

Non-GAAP operating income (loss) is a non-GAAP measure defined as operating income (loss) excluding the impact of significant and unusual items which management believes are not necessarily reflective of operational performance during a period. Management finds the information useful when analyzing financial results in order to appropriately evaluate the performance of the business without the impact of significant and unusual items. In particular, management believes the consideration of measures that exclude such expenses can assist in the comparison of operational performance in different periods which may or may not include such expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4. Leverage ratio (as revised)

The leverage ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated by dividing Signet’s adjusted debt by adjusted EBITDAR. Adjusted debt is a non-GAAP measure defined as debt recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, plus Series A redeemable convertible preferred shares, plus an adjustment for operating leases (5x annual rent expense). Adjusted EBITDAR is a non-GAAP measure, defined as earnings before interest and income taxes, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, and certain non-GAAP accounting adjustments (“Adjusted EBITDA”) and further excludes minimum fixed rent expense for properties occupied under operating leases. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAR are considered important indicators of operating performance as they exclude the effects of financing and investing activities by eliminating the effects of interest, depreciation and amortization costs and certain accounting adjustments. Management believes these financial measures are helpful to enhancing investors’ ability to analyze trends in Signet’s business and evaluate Signet’s performance.

In Fiscal 2021, the Company revised its calculation of EBITDAR to exclude share-based compensation expense and include all non-GAAP accounting adjustments. The Company previously added back only non-cash, non-GAAP accounting adjustments. Management noted there is diversity in practice related to the calculation of inputs within the leverage ratio, primarily among the major credit ratings agencies. Management believes these changes made in Fiscal 2021, as well as its overall methodology described above, provide the most appropriate financial measures for users of the consolidated financial statements to evaluate Signet’s business and performance based on its current operations. All periods below have been presented consistently with the revised calculation defined above.

36
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Total amount of depreciation and amortization reflected on the consolidated statement of cash flows for Fiscal 2021, Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019 equals $176.0 million, $178 million and $183.6 million, respectively, which includes $0.9 million, $0.9 million and $4.0 million, respectively, related to the amortization of definite-lived intangibles, primarily favorable leases and trade names.

(2) Fiscal 2021 includes: 1) $159.0 million in asset impairments related to goodwill, intangible assets, and long-lived assets; 2) $47.6 million related to charges in connection with the Company’s transformation plan; 3) $7.5 million related to charges related to settlement of shareholder litigation, net of insurance proceeds; and $0.4 million related to cost of extinguishment of debt.

Fiscal 2020 includes: 1) $47.7 million related to an immaterial out of period goodwill impairment adjustment; 2) $79.1 million related to charges in connection with the Company’s transformation plan; 3) charges of $33.2 million related to the settlement of previously disclosed shareholder litigation matters, net of expected insurance proceeds; and 4) a $6.2 million gain on extinguishment of debt.

Fiscal 2019 includes: 1) $735.4 million related to the goodwill and intangible impairments; 2) $167.4 million from the valuation losses and costs related to the sale of eligible non-prime in-house accounts receivable; 3) $125.9 million related to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s transformation plan; and 4) an $11.0 million charge related to resolution of a regulatory matter.

(3) As described above, the Company changed its methodology for calculating EBITDAR in Fiscal 2021. Had the Company used the previously disclosed methodology, the leverage ratio would have been 4.1x, 4.1x and 4.3x, in Fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Fiscal 2021 Overview 

Similar to many other retailers, Signet follows the retail 4-4-5 reporting calendar. Both Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 were 52 week reporting periods.

Same Store Sales 

Management considers same store sales useful as it is a major benchmark used by investors to judge performance within the retail industry. Same store sales growth is calculated by comparison of sales in stores that were open in both the current and the prior fiscal year. Sales from stores that have been open for less than 12 months are excluded from the comparison until their 12-month anniversary. Sales after the 12-month anniversary are compared against the equivalent prior period sales within the comparable store sales comparison. Stores closed in the current financial period are included up to the date of closure and the comparative period is correspondingly adjusted. Stores that have been relocated or expanded, but remain within the same local geographic area, are included within the comparison with no adjustment to either the current or comparative period. Stores that have been refurbished are also included within the comparison except for the period when the refurbishment was taking place, when those stores are excluded from 

37
the comparison both for the current year and for the comparative period. Same store sales are also impacted by certain accounting adjustments to sales, primarily related to the deferral of revenue from the Company’s extended service plans.

As discussed in the Overview section above, because of COVID-19, the Company temporarily closed all of its stores in the first quarter of Fiscal 2021, as well as certain stores in the UK and Canada during the fourth quarter. Same store sales as presented in the results of operations below for Fiscal 2021 have not been adjusted to remove the impact of these temporary store closures.

eCommerce sales include all sales with customers that originate online, including direct to customer, ship to store, and buy online, pick-up in store ("BOPIS"). eCommerce sales are included in the calculation of same store sales for the period and the comparative figures from the anniversary of the launch of the relevant website. Brick and mortar same store sales are calculated by removing the eCommerce sales from the same store sales calculation described above. Comparisons at the divisional level are made in local currency and consolidated comparisons are made at constant exchange rates and exclude the effect of exchange rate movements by recalculating the prior period results as if they had been generated at the weighted average exchange rate for the current period. Same store sales exclude the 53rd week in the fiscal year in which it occurs.

Cost of sales and gross margin

Cost of sales is mostly composed of merchandise costs (net of discounts and allowances). Cost of sales also contains:

•Occupancy costs such as rent, common area maintenance, depreciation and real estate taxes.

•Store operating expenses such as utilities, displays and third party merchant credit costs.

•Distribution and warehousing costs including freight, processing, inventory shrinkage and related payroll.

As the classification of cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses varies from retailer to retailer, Signet’s gross margin percentage may not be directly comparable to other retailers.

Factors that influence gross margin include pricing, promotional environment, changes in merchandise costs, changes in non-merchandise components of cost of sales (as described above), changes in sales mix, foreign exchange, gold and currency hedges and the economics of services such as repairs and extended service plans. The price of diamonds varies depending on their size, cut, color and clarity. Signet uses gold and currency hedges to reduce its exposure to market volatility in the cost of gold and the British pound to the US dollar exchange rate, but it is not able to do so for diamonds. For gold and currencies, the hedging period can extend up to 24 months, although the majority of hedge contracts will normally be for a maximum of 12 months.

Signet uses an average cost inventory methodology and, as jewelry inventory turns slowly, the impact of movements in the cost of diamonds and gold takes time to be fully reflected in the gross margin. Signet’s inventory turns faster in the fourth quarter than in the other three quarters, therefore, changes in the cost of merchandise is more impactful on the gross margin in that quarter. Furthermore, Signet’s hedging activities result in movements in the purchase cost of merchandise taking some time before being reflected in the gross margin. An increase in inventory turn would accelerate the rate at which commodity costs impact gross margin.

Selling, general and administrative expense (“SGA”)

SGA expense primarily includes store staff and store administrative costs as well as advertising and promotional costs. It also includes field support center expenses such as information technology, finance, eCommerce and other operating expenses (including credit losses) not specifically categorized elsewhere in the consolidated statements of operations.

The primary drivers of staffing costs are the number of full time equivalent employees and the level of compensation, taxes and other benefits paid. Management varies, on a store by store basis, the hours worked based on the expected level of selling activity, subject to minimum staffing levels required to operate the store. Non-store staffing levels are less variable. A significant element of compensation is performance based and is primarily dependent on sales and operating profit.

The level of advertising expenditure can vary. The largest element of advertising expenditures has historically been national television advertising; however, Signet has continued to invest more on digital and social marketing in recent years as part of its transformational initiatives, in order to evolve its marketing allocations based on consumer habits, business needs, and maximize ROI on its advertising investments. 

Other operating income (loss)

Other operating income (loss) is primarily comprised of miscellaneous operating income and expense items such as interest income from customer in-house finance receivables, litigation settlements, foreign currency gains and losses, and gains and losses from de-designated or undesignated derivative contracts. See Note 12 in Item 8 for further detail on the Company’s other operating income.

38
COMPARISON OF FISCAL 2021 TO FISCAL 2020 

•Same store sales: down 10.8%.

•Diluted earnings (loss) per share: $(0.94) compared to $1.40 in Fiscal 2020.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

In Fiscal 2021, Signet’s same store sales decreased by 10.8%, compared to an increase of 0.6% in Fiscal 2020. Total sales were $5.23 billion, down $910.2 million or 14.8%, compared to $6.14 billion in Fiscal 2020. The decrease was positively offset by growth in eCommerce sales, which were $1.19 billion and 22.7% of total sales compared to $750.4 million and 12.2% of total sales in Fiscal 2020. The declines noted reflect the impact of the temporary store closures in March 2020, as a result of COVID-19, which began reopening in May 2020. In addition, the decline in sales was driven by the impact of permanent store closures of approximately $273 million, as well as a reduction in service revenue recognition stemming from the COVID-19 business disruption experienced during the year. Refer to Note 3 of Item 8 for further information.

The breakdown of Signet’s sales performance during Fiscal 2021 is set out in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative.

na Not applicable.

39
Average merchandise transaction value (“ATV”) is defined as net merchandise sales on a same store basis divided by the total number of customer transactions. As such, changes from the prior year do not recompute within the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) Amounts for the International segment are denominated in British pounds. 

North America sales

The North America segment’s total sales were $4.84 billion compared to $5.57 billion in the prior year, down 13.0%. Same store sales decreased 9.5% compared to an increase of 1.1% in the prior year. North America’s ATV stayed flat, and the number of transactions decreased 7.6%. eCommerce sales increased 55.8% and brick and mortar sales declined 19.4% on a same store sales basis. The declines noted reflect the impact of the temporary closures of all North America stores beginning on March 23, 2020, as a result of COVID-19, which began reopening in May 2020 with store capacity restrictions. The decline in sales also reflects the impact of permanent store closures of approximately $223 million.

International sales

In Fiscal 2021, the International segment’s total sales were $355.9 million, down 31.3%, compared to $518.0 million in Fiscal 2020. Same store sales decreased by 25.0% compared to a decrease of 4.9% in Fiscal 2020. ATV increased 8.5% while the number of transactions decreased 30.4%. eCommerce sales increased 80.6% and brick and mortar sales declined 41.7% on a same store sales basis. The declines noted reflect the impact of various periods of temporary closures of all UK stores, as a result of COVID-19, beginning on March 24, 2020, reopening in June 2020, and then reclosing in November 2020 for a four week shutdown period and an additional shutdown period started in January through the remainder of Fiscal 2021. The decline in sales also reflects the impact of permanent store closures of approximately $50 million.

Fourth quarter sales

In the fourth quarter, Signet’s total sales were $2.19 billion, up $33.2 million or 1.5%, compared to a decrease of 0.1% in the prior year fourth quarter. Same store sales were up 7.0% compared to an increase of 2.3% in the prior year fourth quarter. The total sales increase was driven by eCommerce sales which were $511.4 million or 23.4% of total sales, compared to $299.9 million or 13.9% of total sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The breakdown of the sales performance is set out in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes sales from Signet’s diamond sourcing initiative.

na Not applicable.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40
(1) Net merchandise sales within the North America segment include all merchandise product sales, net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are sales tax in the US, repair, extended service plan, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(2) Net merchandise sales within the International segment include all merchandise product sales, including value added tax (“VAT”), net of discounts and returns. In addition, excluded from net merchandise sales are repairs, warranty, insurance, employee and other miscellaneous sales. As a result, the sum of the changes will not agree to change in same store sales.

(3) Amounts for the International segment are denominated in British pounds.

North America sales

The North America segment’s total sales were $2.05 billion compared to $1.95 billion in the prior year, up 5.1%. Same store sales increased 10.4% compared to an increase of 2.9% in the prior year. The North America segment’s ATV increased 1.1%, and the number of transactions increased 9.9%. eCommerce sales increased 66.0%, while brick and mortar same store sales increased 0.6%. The change reflects a combination of factors including the shift in consumer spend related to the stimulus received and travel restrictions implemented in Fiscal 2021 and the continued traction of Signet's Path to Brilliance strategies and its enhanced OmniChannel capabilities. Despite suppressed retail traffic, Signet experienced much higher conversion rates and increase in transactions value, both online and in-store, which also helped to drive overall sales performance during the fourth quarter.

International sales

The International segment’s total sales decreased 33.9% to $123.1 million compared to $186.2 million in the prior year and decreased 35.8% at constant exchange rates. Same store sales decreased 28.3% compared to a decrease of 3.1% in the prior year. In the International segment’s ATV increased 6.3%, while the number of transactions decreased 29.7%. eCommerce sales increased 115.1% and brick and mortar sales declined 56.2% on a same store sales basis. The declines noted reflect the impact of the temporary closures of all UK stores beginning on November 2020 for a four week shutdown period and an additional shutdown period started in January through the remainder of Fiscal 2021.

Cost of sales and Gross margin 

In Fiscal 2021, gross margin was $1.73 billion or 33.1% of sales compared to $2.22 billion or 36.2% of sales in Fiscal 2020. Factors impacting the decline in gross margin rate for the year to date period included: a higher mix of eCommerce sales, strategic promotions and merchandise liquidations, and lower repair sales due to reduced store traffic as a result of the COVID-19 disruption and restrictions. The rate decline was partially offset through permanent transformation cost savings.

In the fourth quarter, gross margin was $869.5 million or 39.8% of sales compared to $897.9 million or 41.7% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. The decline in gross margin rate reflected strategic promotions to further inventory optimization efforts, lower repair sales related to the decline in store traffic offset by permanent transformation cost savings, driven primarily by lower occupancy costs.

Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”)

Selling, general and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2021 were $1.59 billion or 30.4% of sales compared to $1.92 billion or 31.3% of sales in Fiscal 2020. SG&A decreased primarily due to lower staff costs, inclusive of closed stores and the benefits of permanent transformation cost savings, lower adverting expense, driven primarily by the Company’s effort to maximize cash on hand during COVID-19 disruption, offset by higher incentive compensation and the provision for credit losses. See Note 13 of Item 8 for further information. SG&A also was favorable due to the impact of furloughed store and support center employees as a result of the COVID-19 disruption to the business.

In the fourth quarter, SG&A expense was $573.8 million or 26.2% of sales compared to $633.2 million or 29.4% of sales in the prior year fourth quarter. SG&A decreased primarily due to lower staff costs, inclusive of closed stores and the benefits of permanent transformation cost savings, lower advertising due to a shift in spend from fourth quarter into third quarter to pull forward Holiday Season sales, offset by higher incentive compensation and the provision for credit losses.

Restructuring charges

During the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, Signet launched a three-year comprehensive transformation plan, “Signet’s Path to Brilliance” (the “Plan”), to among other objectives, reposition the Company to be a share gaining, OmniChannel jewelry category leader. The restructuring activities under the Plan are substantially completed as of the end of Fiscal 2021. During Fiscal 2021, restructuring charges of $46.2 million were recognized, $14.7 million of which were non-cash charges, primarily related to store closures, severance costs, and professional fees for legal and consulting services related to the Plan. 

In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021, restructuring charges of $1.0 million were recognized primarily related to store closures and severance costs related to the Plan.

41
During Fiscal 2020, restructuring charges of $69.9 million were recognized, $16.7 million of which were non-cash charges, primarily related to store closures, severance costs, and professional fees for legal and consulting services related to the Plan. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, restructuring charges of $10.5 million, of which $4.6 million were non-cash charges, were recognized primarily related to store closure costs and professional fees for legal and consulting services related to the Plan.

See Note 6 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s restructuring activities.

Asset impairments

During Fiscal 2021, the Company recorded non-cash, pre-tax asset impairments related to the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets of $10.7 million, $83.3 million and $65.0 million respectively. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021, the Company recorded non-cash, pre-tax asset impairment charges of $0.9 million, all of which related to long-lived assets.

During Fiscal 2020, an immaterial out-of-period adjustment of $47.7 million was recognized within goodwill and intangible impairments on the consolidated statements of operations.

See Note 16 and Note 18 of Item 8 for additional information on the asset impairments.

Other operating income (loss)

In Fiscal 2021, other operating income was $2.4 million compared to other operating loss $29.6 million in Fiscal 2020. Fiscal 2021 included a gain of $9.9 million recognized as a result of the Company de-designating and liquidating derivative financial instruments primarily related to forecasted commodity purchases that were deemed no longer effective in light of the economic circumstances altered by COVID-19. These gains were offset by a charge of $7.5 million, net of insurance recoveries, related to the settlement of previously disclosed shareholder litigation matters. Fiscal 2020 was primarily driven by a $33.2 million charge, net of insurance recoveries, related to the settlement of a shareholder litigation matter.

In the fourth quarter, other operating loss was $1.9 million compared to $31.0 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by miscellaneous asset write-offs offset by interest income from the in-house credit program. Fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020 included the $33.2 million net charge related to shareholder litigation noted above.

See Note 12, Note 20 and Note 27 of Item 8 for additional information on these matters.

Operating income (loss)

In Fiscal 2021, operating loss was $57.7 million or 1.1% of sales compared to an operating income of $158.3 million or 2.6% of sales in Fiscal 2020. The decrease year over year reflects the unfavorable impact of the temporary closures of all stores as a result of COVID-19, including the impacts of lower sales and higher asset impairment charges, offset by the permanent transformation cost savings, driven by lower staff costs, lower fixed occupancy costs and the impact from furloughed store and support center employees as a result of the COVID-19 disruption to the business.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Fiscal 2021 includes: 1) $1.6 million related to inventory charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; 2) $36.0 million primarily related to severance, professional fees and store closure costs recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; and 3) asset impairment charges of $136.7 million.

Fiscal 2020 includes: 1) $6.0 million related to inventory charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; 2) $42.1 million primarily related to severance, professional fees and store closure costs recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; and 3) asset impairment charges of $47.7 million.

See Note 6, Note 18 and Note 16 for additional information.

(2) Fiscal 2021 includes: 1) $9.7 million primarily related to severance and store closure costs recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; and 2) asset impairment charges of $22.3 million.

Fiscal 2020 includes $7.0 million primarily related to severance and store closure costs recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities.

See Note 6 and Note 16 for additional information.

(3) Fiscal 2021 includes $0.2 million benefit recognized due to a change in inventory reserves previously recognized as part of the Company’s restructuring activities.

Fiscal 2020 includes $3.2 million related to inventory charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities.

See Note 6 and Note 18 for additional information.

(4) Fiscal 2021 includes: 1) charges of $7.5 million related to the settlement of previously disclosed shareholder litigation matters, net of expected insurance proceeds; and 2) $0.5 million related to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities.

42
Fiscal 2020 includes: 1) charges of $33.2 million related to the settlement of previously disclosed shareholder litigation matters, net of expected insurance proceeds; and 2) $20.8 million related to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities.

See Note 4, Note 27 and Note 6 for additional information.

nm Not meaningful.

In the fourth quarter, operating income was $291.9 million or 13.4% of sales compared to $223.2 million or 10.4% of sales in prior year fourth quarter. The operating income increase reflected a combination of factors including the increase in sales, both online and in-store during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021 when compared to fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, the permanent transformation cost savings, the favorable impacts of store closures on store staffing and store occupancy cost, and payroll cost reduction from restricted store hours.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Fiscal 2021 includes: 1) $1.3 million benefit recognized due to changes in severance and store closure liabilities recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; and 2) $0.2 million net gains on terminations or modifications of leases resulting from previously recorded impairments of the right of use assets in Fiscal 2021.

Fiscal 2020 includes: 1) $3.4 million related to inventory charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; and 2) $4.4 million primarily related to severance, professional fees and store closure costs recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities.

See Note 6, Note 18 and Note 16 for additional information.

(2) Fiscal 2021 includes: 1) $2.1 million primarily related to severance and store closure costs recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities; and 2) asset impairment charges of $1.1 million.

Fiscal 2020 includes $4.6 million primarily related to severance and store closure costs recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities.

See Note 6 and Note 16 for additional information.

(3) Fiscal 2021 includes: 1) charges of $7.5 million related to the settlement of previously disclosed shareholder litigation matters, net of expected insurance proceeds; and 2) $0.5 million related to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities.

Fiscal 2020 includes: 1) charges of $33.2 million related to the settlement of previously disclosed shareholder litigation matters, net of expected insurance proceeds; and 2) $1.5 million related to charges recorded in conjunction with the Company’s restructuring activities.

See Note 4, Note 27 and Note 6 for additional information.

nm Not meaningful.

Interest expense, net

In Fiscal 2021, net interest expense was $32.0 million compared to $35.6 million in Fiscal 2020. In the fourth quarter, net interest expense was $6.4 million compared to $7.7 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The reduction was primarily due to the favorable impact of lower average interest rates due to the debt refinancing during the third quarter of Fiscal 2020 partially offset by higher average borrowings compared to prior year comparable periods. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding, including the impact of debt issuance amortization, discounts, and other financing fees, for the full year was 3.3% compared to 6.0% in the prior year. The weighted average interest rate for the Company’s debt outstanding for the fourth quarter was 3.9% compared to 4.7% in the prior year fourth quarter.

See Note 23 of Item 8 for additional information on the Company’s debt.

Other non-operating income, net

In Fiscal 2021, other non-operating income, net was $0.0 million compared to $7.0 million in Fiscal 2020. Fiscal 2020 reflects a $6.2 million net gain related to the completion of the Company’s debt refinancing, which consists of an $8.2 million net gain on the early extinguishment of the 4.70% Senior Notes due 2024 (the “Senior Notes”) of Signet UK Finance plc, Signet’s wholly-owned subsidiary, partially offset by a $2.0 million write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs related to the termination of the Company’s prior credit facility.

See Note 23 of Item 8 for additional information on the net gain on extinguishment and the Company’s refinancing activities.

43
Income taxes 

Income tax benefit for Fiscal 2021 was $74.5 million compared to expense of $24.2 million in Fiscal 2020, with an effective tax rate of 83.1% for Fiscal 2021 compared to 18.7% in Fiscal 2020. The higher effective tax rate in the current year was primarily driven by the benefit of the CARES Act for the rate benefit on net operating losses carried back to tax years with higher enacted tax rates and the impact of Signet’s global reinsurance arrangement, partially offset by the increase in valuation allowance recorded against certain state deferred tax assets. The Company’s effective tax rate for the prior year was lower than the US federal income tax rate due to the impact of Signet’s global reinsurance arrangement partially offset by the nondeductible goodwill impairment charges and other nondeductible expenses.

In the fourth quarter, income tax expense was $30.9 million compared to expense of $27.9 million in the prior year fourth quarter. The fourth quarter tax expense and effective rate was favorably impacted by the benefit of the CARES Act, as well as by the mix of pre-tax earnings by jurisdiction.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview and capital strategy 

The Company’s primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash provided by operations and availability under its ABL Revolving Facility (defined below). As of January 30, 2021, the Company had $1.2 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $147.6 million of outstanding debt.

The tenets of Signet’s capital strategy are: 1) investing in its business to drive growth in line with the Company’s overall business strategy; 2) ensuring adequate liquidity through a strong cash position and financial flexibility under its debt arrangements; and 3) returning excess cash to shareholders. Over time, Signet’s strategy is to reduce its adjusted leverage ratio to below 3.0x. Refer to discussion of the adjusted leverage ratio in the the Non-GAAP measures section above.

During Fiscal 2021, the third year of its Path-to-Brilliance transformation plan, the Company accelerated its transformation efforts and focused on prioritizing digital investments in both technology and talent, to enhance its new and modernized eCommerce platform and to optimize the OmniChannel shopping journey for its customers. This includes flexible fulfillment capabilities which unlock store level inventory and enable buy online pick up in-store, as well as a continued strategic focus on inventory management to align with customer preferences. The Company’s cash discipline has also led to more efficient working capital, through both the extension of payment days with the Company’s vendor base, as well through continued inventory reduction efforts. In addition, structural cost reductions during Fiscal 2021 under the Company’s transformation strategy exceeded the expected $100 million of annual cost savings. In addition to the structural cost savings already embedded in the business, the Company will continue to focus on working capital efficiency, optimizing its real estate footprint, and prioritizing transformational productivity to drive future costs savings opportunities, all of which are expected to be used to fuel strategic investments, grow the business, and enhance liquidity.

In addition to its strategic initiatives, as a result of COVID-19 in Fiscal 2021, the Company took temporary actions to preserve liquidity, which included reduced overall capital expenditures, significant reductions to discretionary spend, the implementation of temporary reduced work hours and furloughs across store and support center teams, as well as reduced cash compensation for executives and the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company also deferred certain cash payments to Fiscal 2022, primarily related to certain lease obligations (as discussed in Note 17 of Item 8). The Company temporarily suspended its common dividend program and paid its preferred dividends during each quarter of Fiscal 2021 “in-kind”. The Company expects to resume paying the preferred dividends in cash beginning in the first quarter of Fiscal 2022.

As a prudent measure to increase the Company’s financial flexibility and bolster its cash position, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2021, the Company elected to borrow an additional $900 million from its the ABL Revolving Facility. The Company fully paid down amounts borrowed under the ABL Revolving Facility during the third and fourth quarters of Fiscal 2021. The Company also fully repaid the FILO Term Loan Facility during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021.

The Company believes that cash on hand, cash flows from operations and available borrowings under the ABL Revolving Facility will be sufficient to meet its ongoing business requirements for at least the 12 months following the date of this report, including funding working capital needs, projected investments in the business (including capital expenditures), debt service, returns to shareholders through either dividends or the Company’s share repurchase program (as discussed in Note 8 of Item 8), and deferred cash payments from Fiscal 2021 as noted above.

Primary sources and uses of operating cash flows

Operating activities provide the primary source of cash for the Company and are influenced by a number of factors, the most significant of which are operating income and changes in working capital items, such as:

•changes in the level of inventory as a result of sales and other strategic initiatives (i.e. store count);

44
•changes and timing of accounts payable and accrued expenses, including variable compensation; and

•changes in deferred revenue, reflective of the revenue from performance of extended service plans.

Signet derives most of its operating cash flows through the sale of merchandise and extended service plans. As a retail business, Signet receives cash when it makes a sale to a customer or when the payment has been processed by Signet or the relevant bank if the payment is made by third-party credit or debit card. As discussed further in Note 4 of Item 8, the Company has outsourced its prime credit portfolio and a substantial portion of its non-prime credit portfolio, and it receives cash from its outsourced financing partners (net of applicable fees) within two days of the customer sale. Offsetting these receipts, the Company’s largest operating expenses are the purchase of inventory, store occupancy costs (including rent), and payroll and payroll-related benefits.

Summary cash flows

The following table provides a summary of Signet’s cash flow activity for Fiscal 2021, Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.4 billion compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $555.7 million in the prior year comparable period, primarily due to the Company’s ongoing cost control and working capital management initiatives, as well as temporary measures in place to manage liquidity as a result of the impacts of COVID-19, offset by the impacts of the pandemic on the Company’s operating results.

•Net loss was $15.2 million compared to net income of $105.5 million in the prior year period, a decrease of $120.7 million.

•Net loss for the period was significantly impacted by changes in deferred tax liabilities, which increased $141.8 million compared to an increase of $21.5 million in the prior year period offset by changes in current income taxes of $(45.5) million compared to $0.6 million in the prior year. This was primarily the result of the net operating loss carryback filed in the first quarter in accordance with the provisions of the CARES Act, offset by an increase in the valuation allowance related to certain deferred tax assets in the US. During Fiscal 2021, the Company collected $183.4 million related to the loss carryback and other credits filed in Fiscal 2021 under the provisions of the CARES Act. Refer to Note 11 of Item 8 for additional information.

•Non-cash asset impairment charges were $159.0 million compared to $47.7 million in the prior year period, an increase of $111.3 million. See Note 16 of Item 8 for additional information regarding the impairments recognized in each period.

•Depreciation and amortization decreased $2.0 million to $176.0 million from $178.0 million in the prior year comparable period.

•Cash used by accounts receivable totaled $50.1 million compared to a use of $15.2 million in the prior year comparable period. This cash usage was driven by the portion of the non-prime in-house credit card portfolio that was retained by the Company beginning in the second quarter of Fiscal 2021. See Note 13 of Item 8 for additional information.

•Cash provided by inventory was $308.0 million compared to a source of $48.8 million in Fiscal 2020. This increase was driven by the Company’s continued inventory reduction initiatives and the lower store count, net of openings, of 375 stores compared to prior year-end.

•Cash provided by accounts payable was $577.8 million compared to a source of $77.2 million in Fiscal 2020. This increase was driven by the Company’s aggressive working capital management initiatives throughout Fiscal 2021, which included the extension of time to pay with numerous vendors during the year.

45
•Cash provided by changes in operating leases was $31.2 million, compared to cash used of $9.4 million in the prior year period, driven by the Company’s deferral of rent payments due in the months of April through July 2020, which are now expected to be paid primarily in early Fiscal 2022. See Note 17 of Item 8 for further information.

Non-prime forward-flow receivables outsourcing agreement

During the first half of Fiscal 2021, the 2018 agreements pertaining to the purchase of forward flow receivables were terminated and new agreements were executed with CarVal and Castlelake which are effective until June 2021. Historically, non-prime receivables represented approximately 7% of Signet’s consolidated revenue on an annual basis. The new agreements provide that CarVal and Castlelake will continue to purchase add-on receivables created on existing customer accounts at a discount rate determined in accordance with the new agreements. In the second quarter of Fiscal 2021, Signet began retaining forward flow non-prime receivables created for new customers. These new accounts represented approximately 2% of Signet’s Fiscal 2021 revenue. The termination of the previous agreements has no effect on the receivables that were previously sold to CarVal and Castlelake prior to the termination, except that Signet agreed to extend the parties’ payment obligation for the remaining 5% of the receivables previously purchased in June 2018 until the new agreements terminate. The Company’s agreement with the credit servicer Genesis remains in place.

During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021, the Company reached additional agreements with the Investors to further amend the receivables purchase agreements noted above. CarVal will continue to purchase add-ons for existing accounts and will purchase 50% of new forward flow non-prime receivables through June 30, 2021. Genesis will purchase the remaining 50% of new forward flow receivables through June 30, 2021. Castlelake will not purchase any new forward flow non-prime receivables but will continue to purchase add-ons for existing accounts through June 30, 2021. Signet will continue to retain add-on purchases for existing accounts. The Company is actively considering alternatives with regard to the non-prime forward-flow receivables post-June 2021.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $77.8 million compared to $140.8 million in the prior period. Cash used in each period was primarily for capital additions associated with new stores and remodels of existing stores, as well as capital investments in IT.

Stores opened and closed in Fiscal 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The net change in selling square footage for Fiscal 2021 for the North America and International segments was (8.7)% and (14.6)%, respectively.

(2) Includes 33 store repositions in Fiscal 2021.

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities in Fiscal 2021 was $498.6 million, comprised primarily of $27.2 million for dividend payments on common and preferred shares, net debt repayments of $370.0 million, and a decrease in bank overdrafts of $87.4 million. See further information on debt movements below.

Net cash used in financing activities in Fiscal 2020 was $237.0 million, comprised primarily of $108.6 million for dividend payments on common and preferred shares, $166.4 million for net debt repayments, and an increase in bank overdrafts of $47.5 million.

Movement in Cash and Indebtedness

Cash and cash equivalents at January 30, 2021 were $1.2 billion compared to $374.5 million as of February 1, 2020. Signet has significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents invested in various ‘AAA’ rated liquidity funds and at a number of financial institutions. The amount invested in each liquidity fund or at each financial institution takes into account the credit rating and size of the liquidity fund or financial institution and is invested for short-term durations.

During Fiscal 2020, the Company completed a debt refinancing which included the termination and the repayment of $249.9 million of the Company’s previous credit facility and a payment of $241.5 million (including third party fees) to settle of a portion of its Senior Notes, as well as entering into a new five-year asset based lending facility, which consisted of (i) a revolving credit facility in an aggregate committed amount of $1.5 billion (“ABL Revolving Facility”) and (ii) a first-in last-out term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $100.0 million (the “FILO Term Loan Facility” and, together with the ABL Revolving Facility, the “ABL Facility”). Refer to Note 23 of Item 8 for further information regarding the debt refinancing activities.

At February 1, 2020, Signet had $613.1 million of outstanding debt, comprised of $147.5 million of Senior Notes, $270.0 million on the ABL Revolving Facility, $100.0 million on the FILO Term Facility, and other loans and bank overdrafts totaling $95.6 million.

46
During Fiscal 2021, the Company borrowed $900 million and paid down $1.17 billion, on the ABL Revolving Facility. Borrowings were made to fund short-term cash needs and as a prudent measure in response to COVID-19 to increase the Company’s financial flexibility and bolster its cash position. In January 2021, the Company fully repaid the $100 million FILO Term Loan Facility. At January 30, 2021, Signet had $147.6 million of outstanding debt related to the Senior Notes.

The Company had stand-by letters of credit on the ABL Revolving Facility of $19.0 million as of January 30, 2021 that reduced remaining borrowing availability. Available borrowings under the ABL Revolving Facility were $1.3 billion as of January 30, 2021.

Net cash was $1.0 billion as of January 30, 2021 compared to net debt of $237.0 million as of February 1, 2020.

As of January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants.

Capital availability

Signet’s level of borrowings and cash balances fluctuates during the year reflecting the seasonality of its cash flow requirements and business performance. Management believes that cash balances and the committed borrowing facilities (including the ABL Facility described more fully in Note 23 of Item 8) currently available to the business are sufficient for both its present and near-term requirements. The following table provides a summary of these items as of January 30, 2021, February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes cash and cash equivalents

If the excess availability under the ABL Revolving Facility falls below the threshold specified in the ABL Facility agreement, the Company will be required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00. As of January 30, 2021, the threshold related to the fixed coverage ratio was approximately $136 million. The ABL Facility places certain restrictions upon the Company’s ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, grant liens and make certain loans, investments and divestitures. The ABL Facility contains customary events of default (including payment defaults, cross-defaults to certain of the Company’s other indebtedness, breach of representations and covenants and change of control). The occurrence of an event of default under the ABL Facility would permit the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and terminate the ABL Facility.

Credit ratings

The following table provides Signet’s credit ratings as of January 30, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Merchandise held on consignment

Signet held $387.4 million of consignment inventory which is not recorded on the balance sheet at January 30, 2021, as compared to $625.7 million at February 1, 2020. The principal terms of the consignment agreements, which can generally be terminated by either party, are such that Signet can return any, or all of, the inventory to the relevant supplier without financial or commercial penalty.

Contingent property liabilities 

At January 30, 2021, approximately 17 property leases had been assigned by Signet to third parties (and remained unexpired and occupied by assignees at that date) and approximately five additional properties were sub-let at that date. Should the assignees or sub-tenants fail to fulfill any obligations in respect of those leases or any other leases which have at any other time been assigned or sub-

47
let, Signet or one of its UK subsidiaries may be liable for those defaults. The number of such claims arising to date has been small, and the liability, which is charged to the consolidated statements of operations as it arises, has not been material.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

The impact of inflation on Signet’s results for the past three years has not been significant apart from the impact of the commodity costs changes, and in the UK, the impact on merchandise costs due to the currency translation of the British pound against the US dollar.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Critical accounting policies covering areas of greater complexity that are subject to the exercise of judgment due to the reliance on key estimates are listed below. A comprehensive listing of Signet’s significant accounting policies is set forth in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

Revenue recognition for extended service plans and lifetime warranty agreements (“ESP”)

The Company recognizes revenue related to ESP sales in proportion to when the expected costs will be incurred. The deferral period for ESP sales is determined from patterns of claims costs, including estimates of future claims costs expected to be incurred. Management reviews the trends in claims to assess whether changes are required to the revenue and cost recognition rates utilized. A significant change in estimates related to the time period or pattern in which warranty-related costs are expected to be incurred could materially impact revenues. All direct costs associated with the sale of these plans are deferred and amortized in proportion to the revenue recognized and disclosed as either other current assets or other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. These direct costs primarily include sales commissions and credit card fees. Amortization of deferred ESP selling costs is included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations.

The North America segment sells ESP, subject to certain conditions, to perform repair work over the life of the product. Customers generally pay for ESP at the store at the time of merchandise sale. Revenue from the sale of the lifetime ESP is recognized consistent with the estimated pattern of claim costs expected to be incurred by the Company in connection with performing under the ESP obligations. Lifetime ESP revenue is deferred and recognized over a maximum of 17 years after the sale of the warranty contract. Although claims experience varies between the Company’s national banners, thereby resulting in different recognition rates, approximately 55% of revenue is recognized within the first two years on a weighted average basis.

Goodwill and intangibles 

In a business combination, the Company estimates and records the fair value of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including identifiable intangible assets and liabilities. The fair value of these intangible assets and liabilities is estimated based on management’s assessment, including selection of appropriate valuation techniques, inputs and assumptions in the determination of fair value. Significant estimates in valuing intangible assets and liabilities acquired include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows associated with the acquired asset or liability, expected life and discount rates. The excess purchase price over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Goodwill is recorded by the Company’s reporting units based on the acquisitions made by each.

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as indefinite-lived trade names, are evaluated for impairment annually. Additionally, if events or conditions were to indicate the carrying value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived intangible asset may be greater than its fair value, the Company would evaluate the asset for impairment at that time. Impairment testing compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit or other intangible assets with its fair value. When the carrying amount of the reporting unit or other intangible assets exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded.

The impairment test for goodwill involves estimating the fair value of the reporting unit through either estimated discounted future cash flows or market-based methodologies. The impairment test for other indefinite-lived intangible assets involves estimating the fair value of the asset, which is typically performed using the relief from royalty method for indefinite-lived trade names.

The fair value methodologies used by the Company in testing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets include assumptions related to sales trends, discount rates, royalty rates and other assumptions that are judgmental in nature. If future economic conditions are different than those projected by management in its most recent impairment tests for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, future impairment charges may be required. See Note 18 for further details.

Long-lived assets

Long-lived assets of the Company consist primarily of property and equipment, definite-lived intangible assets and operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Potentially impaired assets or asset groups are identified by reviewing the undiscounted cash flows of individual stores. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the store asset group, based on the 

48
Company’s internal business plans. If the undiscounted cash flow for the store asset group is less than its carrying amount, the long-lived assets are measured for potential impairment by estimating the fair value of the asset group, and recording an impairment loss for the amount that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value. The Company utilizes primarily the replacement cost method to estimate the fair value of its property and equipment, and the income capitalization method to estimate the fair value of its ROU assets, which incorporates historical store level sales, internal business plans, real estate market capitalization and rental rates, and discount rates.

The valuation of the Company’s long-lived assets could be negatively impacted by unfavorable operating performance and cash flows of the Company’s stores, including a slower than anticipated re-opening of the stores as a result of COVID-19, lower than anticipated consumer traffic, changes in the Company’s real estate strategy or other key business initiatives. Key assumptions used to estimate fair value, such as sales trends, market capitalization and rental rates, and discount rates could impact the fair value estimates of the store assets in future periods.

 Income taxes

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized by applying statutory tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences between the financial reporting and tax filing bases of existing assets and liabilities are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is established against deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s evaluation of all available evidence, both positive and negative, including reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and results of recent operations. The Company recorded a valuation allowance of $83.9 million and $38.4 million, as of January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020, respectively, due to uncertainties related to the Company’s ability to utilize certain of its deferred tax assets, primarily consisting of net operating losses, foreign tax credits and capital losses carried forward.

The annual effective tax rate is based on annual income, statutory tax rates and tax planning strategies available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The Company does not recognize tax benefits related to positions taken on certain tax matters unless the position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. At any point in time, various tax years are subject to or are in the process of being audited by various taxing authorities. The Company records a reserve for uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties. To the extent that management’s estimates of settlements change, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. See Note 11 in Item 8 for additional information regarding deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits.

Leases

On February 3, 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-02 Leases (Topic 842) and related updates (“ASC 842”) using the optional transition method to recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The impact of the optional transition method was deemed immaterial upon adoption of ASC 842. As part of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company utilized the practical expedient relief package, as well as the short-term leases and portfolio approach practical expedients. ASC 842 allows a lessee, as an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset, to choose not to separate non-lease components from lease components and instead to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with that lease component as a single lease component. We have elected this practical expedient as presented in ASC 842, and do not separate non-lease components for all underlying asset classes. Financial results included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements for Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 are presented under ASC 842, while Fiscal 2019 is presented under the previous accounting standard, ASC 840.

Signet occupies certain properties and holds machinery and vehicles under operating leases. Signet determines if an arrangement is a lease at the agreement’s inception. Certain operating leases include predetermined rent increases, which are charged to store occupancy costs within cost of sales on a straight-line basis over the lease term, including any construction period or other rental holiday. Other variable amounts paid under operating leases, such as taxes and common area maintenance, are charged to selling, general and administrative expenses as incurred. Premiums paid to acquire short-term leasehold properties and inducements to enter into a lease are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In addition, certain leases provide for contingent rent based on a percentage of sales in excess of a predetermined level. Further, certain leases provide for variable rent increases based on indexes specified within the lease agreement. The variable increases based on an index are initially measured as part of the operating lease liability using the index at the commencement date. Contingent rent and subsequent changes to variable increases based on indexes will be recognized in the variable lease cost and included in the determination of total lease cost when it is probable that the expense has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable. Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets and current and non-current operating lease liabilities in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.

49
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement date, based primarily on the underlying lease term, in measuring the present value of lease payments. Lease terms, which include the period of the lease that cannot be canceled, may also include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise that option. The operating lease ROU asset may also include initial direct costs, prepaid and/or accrued lease payments and the unamortized balance of lease incentives received. ROU assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable in accordance with the Company’s long-lived asset impairment assessment policy.

Payments arising from operating lease activity, as well as variable and short-term lease payments not included within the operating lease liability, are included as operating activities on the Company’s consolidated statement of cash flows. Operating lease payments representing costs to ready an asset for its intended use (i.e. leasehold improvements) are represented within investing activities within the Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows.

SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries, which are listed on Exhibit 22.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, have guaranteed obligations under the 4.70% senior unsecured notes due in 2024 (the “Senior Notes”).

The Senior Notes were issued by Signet UK Finance plc (the “Issuer”). The Senior Notes rank senior to the Preferred Shares (as defined in Note 7 of Item 8) and Common Shares. The Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to our existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the assets securing that indebtedness. The Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Company, as the parent entity ( the “Parent”) of the Issuer, and certain of its subsidiary guarantors (each, a “Guarantor” and collectively, the “Guarantors”).

The Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to all existing and future debt and other liabilities, including trade payables, of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Senior Notes (the “Non-Guarantors”). The Non-Guarantors will have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under the Senior Notes or to make funds available to pay those amounts. Certain Non-Guarantors may be limited in their ability to remit funds to us by means of dividends, advances or loans due to required foreign government and/or currency exchange board approvals or limitations in credit agreements or other debt instruments of those subsidiaries.

The Guarantors jointly and severally irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee on a senior unsecured basis the performance and full and punctual payment when due of all obligations of Issuer, as defined in the Indenture, in accordance with the Senior Notes and the related Indentures, as supplemented, whether for payment of principal of or interest on the Senior Notes when due and any and all costs and expenses incurred by the trustee or any holder of the Senior Notes in enforcing any rights under the guarantees (collectively, the “Guarantees”). The Guarantees and Guarantors are subject to release in limited circumstances only upon the occurrence of certain customary conditions.

Although the Guarantees provide the holders of Senior Notes with a direct unsecured claim against the assets of the Guarantors, under U.S. federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of U.S. state fraudulent transfer laws, in certain circumstances a court could cancel a Guarantee and order the return of any payments made thereunder to the Guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of its creditors.

A court might take these actions if it found, among other things, that when the Guarantors incurred the debt evidenced by their Guarantee (i) they received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the incurrence of the debt and (ii) any one of the following conditions was satisfied:

•the Guarantor entity was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the incurrence;

•the Guarantor entity was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or

•the Guarantor entity intended to incur or believed (or reasonably should have believed) that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay as those debts matured.

In applying the above factors, a court would likely find that a Guarantor did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for its Guarantee, except to the extent that it benefited directly or indirectly from the issuance of the Senior Notes. The determination of whether a Guarantor was or was not rendered insolvent when it entered into its Guarantee will vary depending on the law of the jurisdiction being applied. Generally, an entity would be considered insolvent if the sum of its debts (including contingent or unliquidated debts) is greater than all of its assets at a fair valuation or if the present fair salable value of its assets is less than the amount that will be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent or unliquidated debts, as they mature.

50
If a court canceled a Guarantee, the holders of the Senior Notes would no longer have a claim against that Guarantor or its assets.

Each Guarantee is limited, by its terms, to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the applicable Guarantor without rendering the Guarantee, as it relates to that Guarantor, voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.

Each Guarantor is a consolidated subsidiary of Parent at the date of each balance sheet presented. The following tables present summarized financial information for Parent, Issuer, and the Guarantors on a combined basis after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances among Parent, Issuer, and the Guarantors and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in any Non-Guarantor.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts included in asset and liability subtotals above.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Includes income from intercompany transactions with Non-Guarantors of $231.2 million for Fiscal 2021, and income of $1.4 billion for Fiscal 2020. Intercompany transactions primarily include intercompany dividends and interest.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK