Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.  

As a multinational company, Schlumberger generates revenue in more than 120 countries. Schlumberger’s functional currency is primarily the US dollar. Approximately 73% of Schlumberger’s revenue in 2020 was denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of Schlumberger’s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar-reported expenses will increase.  

Schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to manage the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on its earnings. Schlumberger enters into foreign currency forward contracts to provide a hedge against currency fluctuations on certain monetary assets and liabilities, and certain expenses denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. 

A 10% appreciation in the US dollar from the December 31, 2020 market rates would increase the unrealized value of Schlumberger’s forward contracts by $2 million. Conversely, a 10% depreciation in the US dollar from the December 31, 2020 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of Schlumberger’s forward contracts by $5 million. In either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future earnings. 

At December 31, 2020, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $8.6 billion in various foreign currencies, of which $6.4 billion related to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.  

Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and occasionally interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2020, Schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $16.3 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $0.6 billion.  

Schlumberger’s exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. Short-term investments, which totaled approximately $2.2 billion at December 31, 2020, are comprised primarily of money market funds, time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, bonds and notes, substantially all of which are denominated in US dollars. The average return on investments was 1.5% in 2020.  

31 

The following table reflects the carrying amounts of Schlumberger’s debt at December 31, 2020 by year of maturity:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The fair value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $17.6 billion as of December 31, 2020. The weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of December 31, 2020 was 1.0%.  

Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. 

32 

Forward-looking Statements  

This Form 10-K, as well as other statements we make, contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of its Divisions (and for specified business lines or geographic areas within each Division); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; pricing; Schlumberger’s response to, and preparedness for, the COVID-19 pandemic and other widespread health emergencies; improvements in operating procedures and technology; capital expenditures by Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger, including digital and “fit for basin,” as well as the strategies of Schlumberger’s customers; Schlumberger’s restructuring efforts and charges recorded as a result of such efforts; access to raw materials; Schlumberger’s effective tax rate; Schlumberger’s APS projects, joint ventures, and other alliances; future global economic and geopolitical conditions; future liquidity; and future results of operations, such as margin levels. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changing global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger’s customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; the results of operations and financial condition of Schlumberger’s customers and suppliers, particularly during extended periods of low prices for crude oil and natural gas; Schlumberger’s inability to achieve its financial and performance targets and other forecasts and expectations; Schlumberger’s inability to sufficiently monetize assets; the extent of future charges; general economic, geopolitical and business conditions in key regions of the world; foreign currency risk; pricing pressure; weather and seasonal factors; unfavorable effects of health pandemics; availability and cost of raw materials; operational modifications, delays or cancellations; challenges in Schlumberger’s supply chain; production declines; Schlumberger’s inability to recognize intended benefits from its business strategies and initiatives, such as digital or Schlumberger New Energy, as well as its restructuring and structural cost reduction plans; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; the competitiveness of alternative energy sources or product substitutes; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in this Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the SEC. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of any such development changes), or should our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. Statements in this Form 10-K are made as of January 27, 2021, and Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

33 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.