Item 1. Business

Overview

Company Overview

Incorporated in 1989, Stericycle is a U.S. based business-to-business services company and leading provider of compliance-based solutions that protects people, promotes health and safeguards the environment. Stericycle serves customers in the U.S. and 17 other countries worldwide with solutions for regulated waste and compliance services, secure information destruction and patient engagement. To our customers, team members and the communities we serve, Stericycle is a company that protects what matters.

Segments

Our operating segments as of December 31, 2020 are North America and International. 

Financial and other information related to our reporting segments is included in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data; Note 18 - Segment Reporting.

Services 

Within our operating segments, our revenues are further broken down into these service categories:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 6

Table of ContentsPART I

Revenues by service category for each of the operating segments were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations for further information on changes in revenues.

Divestitures

During the year ended December 31, 2020, we divested businesses including our:

•Domestic Environmental Solutions Business (Environmental Solutions)

•Regulated Waste Operations in Argentina 

•Global Product Recall Business (Expert Solutions)

On April 6, 2020, the Company completed the sale of all of the outstanding equity interests of its Environmental Solutions business to the Buyer for approximately $462.5 million (subject to customary adjustments for working capital and other adjustments), pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated February 6, 2020. The Purchase Agreement provided for the divestiture of the Company’s Environmental Solutions business, reported in the North America segment, exclusive of the Company’s healthcare hazardous waste services and unused consumer pharmaceutical take-back services. The Environmental Solutions business generated revenue in 2019 of $559.6 million, including approximately $100.0 million related to the Retained Business, which is included in the RWCS revenue category within our North America segment. The Environmental Solutions business less the Retained Business included approximately 2,000 employees and 60 North America locations.

On August 3, 2020, we entered into an agreement and completed the sale of our operations in Argentina for proceeds of approximately $3.9 million. Revenue of our Argentina operations was approximately 1% of our consolidated annual revenues for 2019.

On December 1, 2020, we entered into an agreement and completed the sale of our global product recall business (Expert Solutions) for proceeds of approximately $78.0 million. Expert Solutions had revenues of approximately $75.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, principally reported in North America, as part of Communication and Related Services.

Customers

Our offering of services appeals to a wide range of business customers. The majority of our customers are healthcare businesses (hospitals, physician and dental practices, outpatient clinics, long-term care facilities, etc.). We also provide services to retailers, manufacturers, financial services providers, professional services providers, governmental entities and other businesses. While we manage large volumes of waste and other materials, the average volume per customer site is small.

No single customer accounted for more than 1.5% of our total revenues and our top ten customers collectively accounted for approximately 7.3% of total revenues. We have developed a strong and loyal customer base, with an 

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 7

Table of ContentsPART I

estimated revenue retention rate of approximately 90% (based on our internal customer attrition analysis) and have been able to leverage these customer relationships to provide additional services. We use different contracts across our services lines and terms vary depending upon the customer’s service requirements, types of services and geographies.

As of December 31, 2020, regulated waste and compliance services are provided to customers in the U.S., Brazil, Canada, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Spain and the U.K. Secure information destruction services under the Shred-it® brand are provided in the U.S., Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Singapore and the U.K. Secure information destruction service are also provided in the United Arab Emirates through a joint venture. The vast majority of services for CRS are provided within the U.S. and Canada.

Facilities and Fleet

Our worldwide network includes a fleet of more than 7,800 trucks and properties both leased and owned as described below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We are headquartered in Bannockburn, Illinois.

Our Key Business Priorities

Following its founding in 1989, Stericycle grew rapidly through inorganic acquisition as the regulated waste industry developed. Growth from regulated waste acquisitions helped us achieve scale of infrastructure, route density and a leadership positions in the markets we serve. We also leveraged acquisitions to enter new regional and international geographies and add additional services to our portfolio. As we grew and evolved, we operated without centralization and the efficiencies that come from an integrated, modern corporate structure and associated information systems.

At the end of 2017, we began advancement of a transformation, including the development and implementation of an ERP system, focused on driving long-term growth, improving profitability and enhancing shareholder value. During 2019, we refocused our transformation efforts and aligned around five key business priorities and our commitment to those continued through 2020.

•Quality of revenue – The services we offer help our customers meet complex regulations. Our expertise, infrastructure and service levels provide a differentiated and premium brand value to the customers we serve. As such, we are focused on improving the quality of revenue we deliver. 

•Operational cost efficiencies – Our day-to-day operations are shifting toward a standardized operating model to optimize processes, drive efficiencies and improve both safety and service. Additionally, we are focused on driving cost efficiencies through work measurement, asset optimization, use of technology, and expanded strategic sourcing.

•Portfolio rationalization – As we look to the future, we continue to pursue the divestiture of service lines or geographies that are not profitable, have limited growth potential, are not vertically integrated, are not essential to our regulated waste and compliance services and secure information destruction service categories, and/or present the opportunity to reduce debt.

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 8

Table of ContentsPART I

•Debt reduction and leverage improvement – As a result of the debt accumulated from our historic acquisition strategy, debt structure and debt leverage improvement are a key focus. 

•ERP implementation – Over our 30-plus year history, Stericycle had acquired more than 500 companies without fully integrating certain acquisitions onto centralized information technology platforms. The disparate operating and information systems have resulted in significant operational inefficiencies and manual processes. With the implementation of an ERP, we expect to drive more revenues, continue to improve operating margins, improve daily decision making via real-time information insights, simplify and enhance forecast accuracy, provide transparency for greater accountability, aid in the development of strategic planning, streamline operational processes, and make it easier for our customers to do business with us. 

For further details, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data; Note 4 – Restructuring, Divestitures, and Impairments, and Note 9 - Debt.

Regulated Waste and Compliance Services

Collection and Transportation

The collection process for regulated waste streams or secure information destruction begins at the customer location with segregation. To assure regulatory compliance, we will not accept material from customers unless it complies with our waste acceptance protocols and is properly stored or packaged in containers that we have either supplied or approved. 

Our team members then collect containers at the customer location via our fleet of vehicles. The majority of collected waste or information for destruction is then transported directly to one of our processing facilities or to one of our transfer stations until it’s transported to a processing facility. Our use of transfer stations in a "hub and spoke" configuration improves the efficiency of our collection and transportation operations by expanding the geographic area that a particular processing facility can serve, thereby increasing the utilization of the facility and the volume of waste that it processes.

Processing and Disposal of Regulated Waste

Upon arrival at a processing facility, containers or boxes of regulated waste undergo a quality control process to verify that they do not contain any unacceptable substances. Any container or box that is discovered to contain unacceptable waste goes through a corrective action process which could include redirecting the waste, returning the waste to the customer and/or notifying the appropriate regulatory authorities. From there, regulated waste is processed using one of several treatments or processing technologies, predominantly at one of our wholly owned facilities:

•Autoclaving: Autoclaving is the primary method of regulated waste treatment. This process relies on steam at high temperature and pressure to kill pathogens and render materials non-infectious.

•Alternative Technologies: We use several different non-incineration alternatives to autoclaves, predominantly outside of the U.S. The processes used by these technologies are similar, as the regulated waste is heated to a specified temperature for a required time to kill the pathogens and render materials noninfectious. This is not always under pressure. Depending on local requirements, the waste may be shredded before or after treatment to render it unrecognizable.

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 9

Table of ContentsPART I

•Incineration: Incineration burns regulated waste at elevated temperatures and reduces it to ash. Incineration reduces the volume of waste and it is the recommended treatment and disposal option for some types of regulated waste such as anatomical waste, residues from chemotherapy procedures and non-hazardous pharmaceutical waste. Air emissions from incinerators can contain certain byproducts that are subject to federal, state and in some cases, local regulation. In some circumstances, the ash byproduct of incineration may be regulated.

Upon completion of the particular treatment process, the resulting waste or incinerator ash is transported for disposal in a landfill owned by unaffiliated third parties. In some countries, where permitted by regulation, the treated waste is recovered, including recovery as fuel in waste-to-energy processes. Further supporting regulatory compliance, we provide chain-of-custody and Certificate of Destruction after each service.

Secure Information Destruction

We leverage a combination of off-site and on-site shredding methods. Over 60% of collected documents for secure destruction in 2020 were sent off-site to geographic consolidating shredding facilities for secure destruction. The remainder of collected documents are shredded on-site with shredding equipment in our vehicles. For both methods, our service offerings leverage cross-cut shredding technology to enhance the security level of destruction and provide secure chain-of-custody and Certificate of Destruction after each service. 

Shredded paper is then baled to be sold as SOP for recycling. SOP consists of paper typically generated by offices that contains primarily white paper. It’s a higher value recyclable than mixed paper, old newspapers or magazines. Stericycle collected and delivered approximately 567,000 tons of SOP for recycling into paper products to be used in the hospitality industry including napkins, paper towels and bathroom tissue. This represents an approximate year-over-year decrease in SOP tonnage of approximately 24.4%, primarily reflecting pandemic-related business disruption. During 2020, the average annual SOP price was $112 per ton, as reported by Fastmarkets RISI, a decline of 15.2% over 2019.

Communication and Related Services

Our Communication Solutions provides live voice and automated services to assist hospitals and IDNs in communications with their patients. Our team serves as a client representative providing appointment scheduling, appointment reminders, event registration and other communications. Providing this service requires information management systems to redirect calls, store and quickly retrieve live voice protocols or client data, send automated communications, or provide easily accessible reporting and activity details to our customers. Beyond the information management system infrastructure, call center staffing and proper education levels are critical to our success.

Our Business Model and Key Business Attributes

Regulated Business-to-Business Operations

We focus on providing business-to-business services in areas of operations that are highly regulated. By helping our customers maintain compliance with complex regulations, we protect people and brands, promote health and safeguard the environment. Governmental legislation and regulation increasingly require the proper handling and disposal of items such as regulated waste and personal confidential information. Regulated waste can be defined as any material subject to government-imposed guidelines for handling the material for transportation or disposal.

•Regulated waste, such as needles, syringes, gloves, cultures, blood and blood products and material potentially contaminated by infectious agents, can potentially cause an infectious disease.

•Pharmaceutical waste may be hazardous or nonhazardous and consists of expired, recalled, or otherwise unused pharmaceuticals.

•Personal confidential information includes documents and e-media containing protected healthcare information, financial information, or other confidential information.

Growing Markets

The services we offer, especially our core services of regulated waste and compliance and secure information destruction, either are growing or have historically grown prior to the impact of COVID-19. This growth is driven by multiple factors:

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 10

Table of ContentsPART I

•Aging Population: The average age of the population in the countries in which we operate is rising, driving increases in healthcare and the quantity of regulated wastes generated.

•Enforcement of Waste Regulations: Enforcement of regulations relating to the management of regulated waste is increasing. Penalties for violations can be costly and high profile, thereby impacting a business’ overall reputation. We believe that many businesses are unaware either of the need for proper training of employees or of applicable regulatory requirements and we seek to help businesses fill this gap.

•Regulation of Privacy and Information Security and Concerns over Data Breaches: The continued development and growth of the secure information destruction industry has been driven, in part, by the need for compliance with increasing government regulation with respect to privacy and information security, including the European Global Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act.

•Market Expansion Due to Increased Outsourcing: With regard to secure information destruction services and communication services, we believe market growth will come from increased reliance on outsourcing services by those businesses within the marketplace that currently do not use an outside vendor.

•Increased Business Focus on Sustainability: Businesses continue to realize that a focus on sustainability is now essential to operating efficiently and meeting the increasing demands of customers for environmental responsibility. Such pressures are driving proper disposal of pharmaceuticals, recycling efforts, shred-all policies for paper and other initiatives supported by our services.

Stable and Recurring Customer Needs Supported by Long-term Contracts

The services we provide most often require service on a routine and scheduled basis. Historically, our revenues have not been significantly affected by economic downturns. The majority of our customer relationships include long-term contracts ranging from three to five years in length. We have developed a strong and loyal customer base, with, we believe, a revenue retention rate of approximately 90% (based on our internal customer attrition analysis).

Established Network of Processing and Transportation Locations

We believe that our infrastructure network results in an expansive operational network with alternate transportation, treatment and destruction options for our customers. The scale of our network also provides us the ability to be the single-source provider for customers with multiple locations across the country and gives us the flexibility to quickly redirect services or operations to another location if the need arises due to severe weather, power outages, or other disruptions.

Routing Logistics

While we manage large volumes of waste and secure information for destruction, the average volume per customer site is small and the resulting revenue per stop is low. As such, route logistics and route efficiency are a core focus. This vast transportation network provides us with an advantage compared to our competition in the markets we serve. Additionally, we have continued to focus on route density and optimizing routing at both the individual truck and geographic market level. Our routing improvement efforts implemented earlier this year are driving sustainable operational improvements and cost savings. We expect that the ERP implementation will provide greater visibility to data which will enable further routing efficiencies.

Industry Leadership and Expertise

Based on our infrastructure and revenues, we maintain a global leadership position across our various services lines, including regulated waste and secure information destruction. We attract highly experienced team members who have a deep understanding of the industries they serve, the regulatory climate and the evolving needs of the customers we serve. We collaborate regularly with a wide range of stakeholders and interest groups. In 2020, the Company took a leadership position related to COVID-19 to support our customers and provide industry expertise regarding the effective management of COVID-19 waste. We proactively work with organizations like the CDC, DEA, OSHA, EPA and many other government and regulatory bodies, including law enforcement. Our experts are frequent speakers at hospital networks, industry trade associations and actively engage in numerous community meetings each year.

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 11

Table of ContentsPART I

Human Capital Management

Workforce Overview 

As of December 31, 2020, we employed over 15,000 active team members with 96% full-time employees. Additionally, we have approximately 1,180 global contingent workers supplementing our staff to fill temporary positions or as a part of a temporary-to-permanent recruiting program. Our voluntary turnover rate for 2020, excluding turnover due to divestitures, averaged approximately 22%.

We are a party to 11 collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. and Canada, covering approximately 750 employees, or approximately 6.5%, of our total U.S. and Canadian workforce. We have additional agreements and works councils covering approximately 1,500 employees outside of North America for a total of approximately 14% of our workforce in a collective bargaining organization. During 2020, we experienced no work stoppages.

Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS)

We protect people, promote health, and safeguard the environment. This is the foundation of our core purpose and the foundation of our EHS commitment to safe, environmentally responsible and sustainable operations. Over the past several years, we have made meaningful advancements in the development of our EHS organization. Our continued efforts during 2020 to enhance our safety-focused culture resulted in double-digit percentage improvements in our key safety performance metrics. This data has been normalized to exclude divestitures. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The number of workplace injuries that resulted in treatment beyond first aid (as defined by OSHA) per 100 employees. TRIR is calculated by multiplying the total number of recordable workplace injuries or illnesses by 200,000 and dividing by the total hours worked ((Injuries x 200,000) / Hours).

2 Lost Workday Incident Rate is the number of recordable workplace injuries (as defined by OSHA) that resulted in an employee being unable to return to work, per 100 employees. These injuries are a more severe subset of the total recordable injuries. LWIR is calculated by multiplying the total number of lost time recordable workplace injuries by 200,000 and dividing by the total hours worked ((Lost time injuries x 200,000) / Hours).

3 Data includes only the U.S. and Canada for full year 2019 and 2020. Data collection for U.K. and Ireland began September 2019, as such September through December is included in 2019 and 2020 metrics to allow for year over year comparison.  Vehicle incidents includes any incident involving a vehicle owned, leased or operated by Stericycle, excluding vehicle fires. 

Our safety improvement journey has included a comprehensive focus on centralized procedures, processes and monitoring as well as investing in new training programs to increase safety awareness. Our efforts and improvement initiatives tended to focus first on North America, which has the majority (71%) of our team members, and then extended to other countries. During 2020, our behavior-based safety program was expanded with the following initiatives:

•Initial implementation of a new global driver safety training program called SWAT for Steer, Watch, Anticipate, and Take Action

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 12

Table of ContentsPART I

•Centralization of standardized safety training for all international markets

•Initiation of broad-based internal recognition of weekly, monthly and annual safety performance milestones by geographic regions

Diversity and Inclusion 

Acknowledging that a diverse and inclusive workforce is a key element of long-term business sustainability, we continue to focus on diversity and inclusion with the goal of developing a workforce that represents the customers and communities that we serve. Our early efforts and initiatives span the areas of recruitment, retention, advancement and representation. 

To publicly reinforce our commitment, our CEO, Cindy Miller, signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion Pledge at the end of 2020. This is the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace, with more than 1,500 CEOs across all industries and geographies participating. Each signatory realizes that fostering diversity and inclusion is a business imperative and a societal issue that senior leaders play a critical role in addressing.

During 2020, our Talent Acquisition team has built relationships with numerous organizations to support advancement of diversity and inclusion in communities we serve or to help us identify a wide range of diverse candidates for open positions that are filled with external candidates. We work with local, regional and national partners to target Veteran, disabled and racially or ethnically diverse job candidates. As a result of our recruiting efforts, more than 60% of all U.S.-based new hires in 2020 were racial or ethnically diverse. When promoting from within, approximately 52% of promotions during 2020 were filled by racially or ethnically diverse individuals.

We also encourage and support employee resource groups to help drive engagement and representation. We have five employee resource groups supporting women, black or African Americans, Latin Americans, Veterans, and the LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer) community.

As we closed 2020, 23% of our global workforce was women with a slightly higher proportion of women holding senior management and middle management roles (29% and 30%, respectively). In the U.S., 53% of our team members are from federally designated racial or ethnic minority categories. We are reporting only on the U.S. racial and ethnic diversity as the U.S. is our largest country of operation and because of the complexity of global ethnic and racial diversity reporting given the variations in racial and ethnic designations by country.

Gender Diversity of Our Global Workforce

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 13

Table of ContentsPART I

Racial and Ethnic Diversity of Our U.S. Workforce*

*Based primarily on self-identification at time the of joining Stericycle.

Work-from-Home and Protecting Our Team during the Pandemic 

During March, we mobilized more than 7,000 team members to work from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This new environment led to the need to coach our managers and supervisors on new methods and techniques to support business productivity. Additionally, communication with our team members became more important than ever to keep our organization connected and focused on serving our customers. Our pandemic-related communication efforts included safety updates from our EHS team, a dedicated COVID-19 internal resource website for managers and team members, and routine return to work protocol updates. These pandemic-related communications supplemented our ongoing communications that included monthly global leadership conference calls to review performance and priorities, weekly video messages from the executive team members, monthly global manager meetings, and leadership development emails.

Additionally, our COVID-19 pandemic response included efforts to protect the health and well-being of our workforce. We worked proactively with the Centers for Disease, Control and Prevention, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Transportation and regulatory agencies around the world to ensure readiness for proper regulated waste management. We updated and implemented numerous protocols specifically to reduce risk among our front-line team members, and our strategic sourcing team worked diligently to take measures to provide our field operations employees with appropriate personal protective equipment. We staggered shift times and dedicated trucks to specific drivers to reduce exposure and potential of spreading of COVID-19. We also implemented more rigorous cleaning protocols for all our facilities.

Team Member Engagement and Feedback

During November 2020, we completed a global team member engagement and feedback survey to gauge the sentiment of our team members under the new executive leadership team. The survey included a wide range of topics including manager effectiveness, change management, involvement and belonging, ethics, and communication. Approximately 77% of our team company-wide participated in the survey, an increase from 69% compared to the engagement survey conducted in 2018. Results from the survey indicate an engagement improvement of approximately 10.5% compared to 2018. Additionally, we saw improvements in the areas of change management, job experience and satisfaction, involvement and belonging, manager effectiveness, communication, and quality of service. Through feedback from the survey, top-rated topics indicate that our team members believe we have strong people managers, prioritize safety, and have clear expectations for ethical behavior.

Implementation of a Global Human Capital Management System 

We marked a significant milestone on January 1, 2020 when we successfully launched our new global human capital management system and processes as part of our overall ERP plan. The human capital management system now serves as our global employee master data platform and is enabling disciplined fiscal responsibility in our workforce planning. We now have automated, paperless workflows for employee data maintenance including hiring and terminations, recruiting, team member onboarding, annual performance management, and merit planning as well as streamlined interfaces to other applications such as information technology user access and payroll. 

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 14

Table of ContentsPART I

Our Operating Environment

Competition

The industries and markets in which we operate are highly competitive on pricing and barriers to entry are low. Our competitors consist of many different types of service providers, including national, regional and local companies. Some of these companies provide only a portion of the services of Stericycle for example, just collection and transportation, but not treatment of regulated waste or regulated waste compliance services, but not a sharps management program. In the regulated waste and secure information destruction industries, another source of competition is on-site management.

For regulated waste, some large-quantity waste generators, particularly hospitals, may choose an onsite autoclave or other treatment process. For secure information destruction, many businesses may choose to use small, on-site shredders for their documents. In both regulated waste and secure information destruction, there is no other competitor in North America with Stericycle’s overall scale, breadth of services, national transportation network and comprehensive treatment network.

Governmental Regulation

The regulated waste and secure information destruction services are subject to numerous regulations. In many countries there are multiple regulatory agencies at the local and national level that oversee our customers or our services. This regulatory framework imposes a variety of compliance requirements, including requirements to obtain and maintain government permits. We maintain numerous governmental permits, registrations and licenses to conduct our business in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our permits vary by jurisdiction based upon our activities within that jurisdiction and on the applicable laws and regulations of that jurisdiction. These permits grant us the authority, among other things, to:

•construct and operate collection, transfer and processing facilities;

•transport regulated waste within and between relevant jurisdictions; and

•handle particular regulated substances.

Our permits, registrations and licenses may be subject to modification or revocation by the issuing authority and, in some jurisdictions, are subject to periodic renewal. Periodic renewals may be subject to public participation and can lead to additional regulatory oversight. We are also subject to regulations that govern the definition, generation, segregation, handling, packaging, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of regulated waste. In addition, we are subject to extensive regulations to ensure public and employee health and safety at the federal, state and local levels.

We are subject to substantial regulations enacted and enforced by the U.S. government and by the governments of the foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct regulated waste and secure information destruction operations. The regulatory requirements with which we must comply vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The laws governing our domestic and international operations generally consist of statutes, legislation and regulations concerning environmental protection, employee health and welfare, transportation, document management, ethical business conduct and proper handling and management of regulated waste streams and controlled substances.

Environmental Protection

Certain services within our business are subject to extensive and evolving environmental regulations in all the geographies in which we operate. Generally, the environmental laws we are subject to regulate the handling, transporting and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, the release or potential release of hazardous substances into the environment, the discharge of pollutants into streams, rivers, groundwater and other surface waters and the emission of pollutants into the air. The principal environmental laws that govern our operations in the U.S. are state environmental regulatory agencies as they provide the specific legislative and/or regulatory frameworks which require the management and treatment of regulated waste. Additionally, the RCRA, the CERCLA and the Clean Air Act of 1970 are the federal regulations that affect management of certain aspects of regulated waste and all RCRA hazardous wastes. CERCLA and state laws similar to it may impose strict, joint and several liabilities on the current and former owners and operators of facilities from which release of hazardous substances has occurred and on the generators and transporters of the hazardous substances that come to be located at these facilities. The 10 HMIW incinerators, located at 7 sites, that we currently operate in the U.S. must comply with the emissions standards imposed by the applicable states permitting authorities pursuant to regulations promulgated under the Clean Air Act as well as state and/or municipal waste permit requirements.

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 15

Table of ContentsPART I

Examples of environmental laws applicable to our international operations include the Waste Framework Directive, Environmental Liabilities Directive, Industrial Emissions Directive and the Shipments of Waste Regulations in the EU, Lei 12.305/2010 (Lei Ordinária) Institui A Política Nacional De Resíduos Sólidos in Brazil and the Canadian Environmental Protection Act and related regulations in Canada. Additional environmental laws at the federal and/or local levels apply to regulated waste management in other markets in which we conduct business.

Employee Health and Welfare

We are subject to numerous regulations promulgated to protect and promote employee health and welfare through the implementation and enforcement of standards designed to prevent illness, injury and death in the workplace. The primary U.S. federal laws relating to employee health and welfare applicable to our business are overseen by OSHA, which establishes specific employer responsibilities including engineering controls, administrative controls, training, policies and programs complying with the regulations and recordkeeping and reporting, all in an effort to ensure a safe workplace. Various OSHA standards apply to almost all aspects of our operations and govern such matters as exposure to blood-borne pathogens, hazard communication, and personal and protective equipment.

Examples of employee health and welfare laws applicable to our international operations include the European Framework Directive on Safety and Health at Work (Directive 89/391 EEC) and various provisions of the Canada Labour Code and related occupational safety and health regulations in the provinces and territories of Canada.

Transportation

Various laws regulating the transportation of waste and other potentially hazardous materials also apply to the services we provide. In the U.S., the DOT has established regulations which deal with two different aspects of transportation: hazardous materials transport and safety in transportation. These regulations are defined within the PHMSA and the FMCSA. Due to our fleet size we are regularly subject to roadside inspections. These inspections have a cumulative effect on our compliance history and require us to remain in good standing so as not to jeopardize our permits.

Examples of transportation laws applicable to our international operations include the Directive on the Inland Transportation of Dangerous Goods in the EU, and the Transport of Dangerous Goods Act, and related regulations in Canada, and globally the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code, and the IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations.

Document Management

Numerous laws and regulations require proper protection of confidential customer information by business parties that have access to such information. In the U.S., the most cited regulations include the FACTA Final Disposal Rule, the FACTA Red Flag Rule, HIPAA and the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act. Furthermore, the GDPR provides the framework for data privacy and data protection for companies that conduct business in Europe.

For the transportation of secure information for destruction, we are regulated by the DOT as a commercial motor carrier. The processes for the destruction of secure information destruction processes are not regulated by any government agency. However, the NAID maintains a certification to ensure that destruction processes support the needs of organizations to meet laws and regulations relating to the protection of confidential information. We currently hold the NAID AAA Certification for our operations in North America. Further, the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council has developed Data Security Standards which are imposed globally upon merchants utilizing credit cards and require destruction of documents and media in accordance with their standards.

Various international regulations governing ethical business practices apply to our business, including but not limited to, the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and the Brazilian Clean Companies Act. These laws may apply to our business on both a global and local basis and ban unethical behavior such as the payment of bribes to government officials for the purpose of gaining an improper business advantage, improper maintenance of our books and records, as well as other financial transparency requirements.

Controlled Substances

Our service offerings for the recall or destruction of controlled substance pharmaceuticals are subject to numerous laws and regulations under various international federal agencies, such as the DEA in the U.S. and the Home Office Drugs and Firearm Licensing Unit in the U.K. These regulations apply to both the closed loop management of controlled substances as well as the return of unused controlled substances from consumers. These regulations typically require facilities to obtain a controlled substance registration in addition to other pharmaceutical licenses 

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 16

Table of ContentsPART I

and meet certain criteria in order to collect, process and dispose of controlled substances. These regulations have very strict requirements for the management of employees, the type of security within facilities, recordkeeping and the reporting of all controlled substances managed at the facility. Much like our other permitting, the registration must be updated regularly and subjects us to inspection and enforcement.

U.S. and Foreign Local Regulation for Waste Management

We conduct business in all 50 U.S. States and Puerto Rico. Because the EPA does not promulgate regulations for regulated waste at a national level, each state has its own regulations related to the handling, treatment and storage of regulated waste. Many states have followed requirements similar to the Medical Waste Tracking Act of 1988 or have placed regulated waste regulations under solid waste regulations. Regulated garbage (sometimes referred to as “APHIS waste” taken from the Animal Plant and Health Inspection Service) is another area of regulatory requirements we are subject to pursuant to regulations promulgated by the USDA and Customers and Border Patrol. The USDA typically inspects our facilities receiving such APHIS waste on a quarterly basis.

In each state where we operate a processing facility or a transfer station, we are required to comply with varying state and local laws and regulations which may also require a specific operating plan. In addition, many local governments have ordinances and regulations, such as zoning or wastewater regulations that affect our operations. Similarly, our international operations are subject to regulations enacted and enforced at the provincial, municipal, and local levels of government in addition to the national regulations with which we must comply.

Potential Liability and Insurance

The regulated waste industry involves potentially significant risks of statutory, contractual, tort and common law liability claims. Potential liability claims could involve, for example:

•cleanup costs 

•personal injury

•damage to the environment

•employee matters

•property damage or

•alleged negligence or professional errors or omissions in the planning or performance of work

We also could be subject to fines or penalties in connection with violations of regulatory requirements.

We carry several insurance coverages including property, workers compensation, general liability, employer’s liability, pollution liability, privacy and security liability, event management, cyber-liability, directors and officers and miscellaneous professional services errors and omissions coverages. We also carry umbrella policies that cover general liability, auto and employers liability. We regularly evaluate other lines of coverage to respond to specific business needs but consider our current insurance coverage to be sufficient to meet regulatory as well as customer requirements and to protect our employees, assets and operations.

Patents, Trademarks and Proprietary Rights

Stericycle holds a number of patents or applications in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Europe and Australia for technologies related to its business, including for the recovery of reusable medical devices in a sharps container, various waste container assemblies, a lockable mounting bracket for use with a waste container assembly, a three-stage shredder, and the processing and updating of event-related information using automated reminders. 

We own federal registrations for a number of trademarks/service marks including Stericycle®, Shred-it®, We Protect What Matters®, Artech®, Community Shred-it®, Making Sure it’s Secure®, Virtual Compliance Partner®, DataDefender®, the Stericycle logo service mark consisting of a nine-circle design and the Shred-it logo. We also hold international registrations for Stericycle and the Stericycle and Shred-it logos, among others.

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 17

Table of ContentsPART I

Information about Our Executive Officers

The following table contains certain information regarding our nine current executive officers:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cindy Miller has served as a Director since February 2019 and became Stericycle's President and Chief Executive Officer on May 2, 2019 after serving as President and Chief Operating Officer since October 2018. Prior to Stericycle, Ms. Miller served as President, Global Freight Forwarding for United Parcel Service (UPS). Ms. Miller had a 30-year career with UPS starting as a driver and progressing to district manager for operating regions in the United States and then managing director for regions in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa before becoming President of the European region. Ms. Miller received a bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and an executive MBA from the London Business School.

Janet Zelenka was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on June 1, 2019. She assumed the additional duties and responsibilities of Chief Information Officer on June 28, 2020. Before joining Stericycle, she spent 15 years with Essendant Inc., most recently serving as Chief Financial Officer until the company’s acquisition by Sycamore Partners. While at Essendant, she also served in the roles of Chief Information Officer and Senior Vice President of Business Integration during a transformational period for the company, and held leadership positions in finance, analytics, audit, and pricing. Prior to Essendant, she spent 16 years at SBC/Ameritech (AT&T) in a range of IT, financial, and operational roles. Ms. Zelenka has a bachelor’s degree from Rockford University and a masters of business administration from Northern Illinois University.

S. Cory White was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer in October 2019. He joined Stericycle in April 2019 as Executive Vice President of Communication and Related Services (CRS) and retains his current CRS responsibilities in his new role. Mr. White previously served as the Global Chief Commercial Officer for Startek, Inc. for nearly three years and as Vice President, Healthcare and Government Vertical Leader, with Convergys, Inc. for six years. Prior to those roles, he spent eleven years with ACS Healthcare, a Xerox Company, in a variety of sales and operational roles including Senior Vice President of ACS Healthcare Payment Integrity Solutions. Mr. White has a bachelor's degree from the University of Kentucky.

Joe Reuter joined Stericycle as Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer during January 2019. Mr. Reuter joins from United Parcel Service (UPS) where he served as President, International Human Resources since April 2016. Prior to that, he served as Vice President of the Europe Region human resources for three years and Vice President of human resources for the Global Freight Forwarding business for one year. He began his career as a parcel service provider and supervisor before moving into the human resources field and supporting UPS operating districts across the U.S. with increasingly larger areas of responsibility. Mr. Reuter received a bachelor’s degree from the University of South Dakota.

Dominic Culotta joined Stericycle as Executive Vice President and Chief Engineer during April 2019. He was named Chief Transformation Officer effective January 1, 2021. Prior to joining Stericycle, Mr. Culotta spent 35 years with United Parcel Services (UPS) most recently serving six years as Vice President of Engineering for Global Freight Forwarding and eight years as Vice President of Engineering and Operations for UPS' Europe, Middle East and Africa region. His early career included various operations and engineering assignments, working his way to multiple engineering division manager roles as well as a regional vice president of operations and engineering. Mr. Culotta has a bachelor’s degree from Loyola College in Baltimore.

Michael Weisman joined Stericycle as Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer in April 2018. Mr. Weisman previously served as Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer for The Kraft Heinz Company, a publicly-listed packaged foods company, which he joined through Kraft Foods in July of 2015. Prior to the merger with Heinz Foods he served as Chief Counsel, Compliance for Kraft Foods from July 2014; as Vice President, Ethics and Compliance for U.S. Foods from February 2013; and as Associate General Counsel, Compliance, at 

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 18

Table of ContentsPART I

Career Education Corporation from 2010. He was also an associate and partner with the law firm Katten Muchin Rosenman, LLP for more than 10 years, serving as a member of the firm's White Collar Defense, Internal Investigations and Compliance Practice Group. Mr. Weisman received a bachelor’s degree from the University of Illinois and his juris doctor degree from Chicago-Kent College of Law.

Rich Moore joined Stericycle as Executive Vice President of North American Operations during January 2019. Prior to joining Stericycle, Mr. Moore spent 30 years with United Parcel Services (UPS) most recently as President of UPS' Illinois District since 2016. Previous experience includes three years as Vice President of European Operations, five years as President of the Northeast District, and three years District Manager for Utah, Idaho, and Southern Nevada plus previous other operations and transportation staff roles. Mr. Moore has a bachelor’s degree from Manhattan College and a master of business administration from National Louis University.

Daniel Ginnetti became Executive Vice President, International in June 2019 after serving as Stericycle’s Chief Financial Officer for over four years. Mr. Ginnetti joined Stericycle as Area Vice President of Finance in 2003. In 2004 he was promoted to Area Vice President for Stericycle’s Western, and later, Midwestern business units. Following that, he was promoted to Senior Vice President of Operations for the United States and Canada. He returned to financial management in 2013 becoming Vice President of Corporate Finance and then CFO in August 2014. Prior to joining Stericycle, Mr. Ginnetti held various finance and accounting positions with The Ralph M. Parsons Company, a worldwide engineering firm, and Ryan Herco Products Corp., a national industrial plastics distributor. Mr. Ginnetti has a bachelor’s degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara.

Kurt Rogers joined Stericycle as Executive Vice President and General Counsel in July 2017. Mr. Rogers previously served as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of Vonage Holdings Corp., a publicly-listed software technology and communications company, for more than seven years. Earlier, Mr. Rogers was a partner with international law firms Bingham McCutchen LLP (now Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP) and Latham & Watkins LLP, and as an associate with Rogers & Wells LLP (now Clifford Chance LLP), where he represented clients in litigation, intellectual property and other matters. Mr. Rogers received his bachelor’s degree from Cornell University and his J.D. from Cornell Law School.

Available Information

We maintain an internet website, www.stericycle.com, which provides a variety of information about the Company and where the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable, following the time they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Reports and proxy and information statements that are filed electronically with the SEC are available on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov.

2020 10-K Annual ReportStericycle, Inc. • 19

Table of ContentsPART I

Item 1A. Risk Factors