Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

We are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. We do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

Interest rate risk

Our short-term investments and cash equivalents primarily consist of corporate bonds and certificate of deposits, respectively. A change in interest could have an adverse impact on their market value. As of April 2, 2021, the carrying value and fair value of our short-term investments and cash equivalents was $18 million. A hypothetical change in the yield curve of 100 basis points would not result in a significant reduction in fair value.

As of April 2, 2021, we had $2.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate Senior Notes and convertible debt outstanding, with a carrying amount and a fair value of $2.4 billion, based on Level 2 inputs. Since these notes bear interest at 

33
fixed rates, they do not result in any financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. However, the fair value of these notes fluctuates when interest rates change.

As of April 2, 2021, we also had $1.2 billion outstanding debt with variable interest rates based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR). A reasonably possible hypothetical adverse change of 100 basis points in LIBOR would not result in a significant increase in interest expense on an annualized basis.

In addition, we have a $1 billion revolving credit facility that if drawn bears interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR and would be subject to the same risks associated with adverse changes in LIBOR.

Foreign currency exchange rate risk

We conduct business in numerous currencies through our worldwide operations, and our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues, or incur costs in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency, primarily in Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Israeli New Shekel, Swiss Franc, Singapore Dollar and Indian Rupee. In addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services we provide. Our cash flow, results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses which impacts our operating results. 

We have a foreign exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures, and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our results of operations through which we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries with up to twelve months in duration. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates. The gains and losses on these foreign exchange contracts are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

As of April 2, 2021 and April 3, 2020, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $338 million and $419 million, respectively, to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposure, with an insignificant fair value. A hypothetical ten percent depreciation of foreign currency would result in a reduction in fair value of our forward contracts of $20 million and $30 million for fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, respectively. This analysis disregards the possibilities that the rates can move in opposite directions and that losses from one geographic area may be offset by gains from another geographic area. 

Additional information with respect to our derivative instruments is included in Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

34
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data