Item 1. BUSINESS

Overview. Teradata Corporation ("we," "us," "Teradata," or the "Company") is a multi-cloud enterprise data warehouse platform provider focused on helping companies leverage all their data across an enterprise to uncover real-time intelligence, at scale. In doing so, we help companies to find answers to their toughest business challenges. All efforts we perform are in support of our purpose of transforming how businesses work and people live through the power of data. 

4
Teradata has broadened its market opportunity by evolving from an on-premises only, enterprise data warehouse company to a multi-cloud, enterprise data warehouse platform provider. We help our customers integrate and simplify their data and analytics ecosystem, streamline access and management of data, and use analytics to derive business value from diverse data types. Our target market focuses on organizations that are the world's most demanding, large-scale users of data.

The largest companies in the world have spent decades building mission-critical, complex, and large-scale on-premises data environments. However, these companies face significant challenges from ecosystems that have grown over time, including siloed data and conflicting and duplicative solutions, resulting in environments that are highly complex and expensive to maintain and manage. Despite these companies investing heavily in technology, people, and infrastructure, their employees are unable to effectively access the data they need to efficiently run their businesses or activate data to make intelligent and innovative business decisions. In addition, most of these organizations are also experiencing a dramatic increase in data volumes and complexity due to digital transformation. 

As companies seek greater agility and flexibility demanded by today’s digitalized and highly disruptive economy, they are turning to cloud infrastructures. By accessing a data warehouse platform integrated within a cloud-based ecosystem, companies can flexibly access and pay for capabilities on demand integrated with the elasticity of cloud. This provides companies the ability to deploy projects and initiatives, with agility and as needed. Given the petabytes of data and the millions of queries executed daily on-premises, we know that the journey to cloud will be a significant endeavor for our customers leading to ecosystems spanning on-premises and cloud for the foreseeable future. With companies pivoting to invest in the cloud, we believe it is essential for these businesses to be able to integrate ecosystems across on-premises and across multi-cloud environments, simplify access to data wherever it resides and accommodate analytics at massive scale and speed. As a result, we believe that the market for our solutions and services is large and growing.

Our solution, Teradata Vantage™, is our data warehouse platform that allows companies to leverage all of their data across an enterprise, whether in public or private clouds, on-premises, or in a multi-cloud environment. It connects multiple sources of data to drive ecosystem simplification, delivers multi-dimensional scale and integration, and it supports customers on their journey to cloud through an integrated migration. Teradata is a leader in enabling the migration of a company's data to a cloud based ecosystem by running the same software platform in all deployments (on-premises or public cloud), providing software license portability, data and workload automation tools, as well as associated services.

Teradata Vantage also contains a secure, highly concurrent and resilient analytics engine that addresses the scalability demands of our target market, the largest companies in the world. Vantage is an open platform offering full integration of datasets, tools, analytical languages and functions within one platform, including leading commercial and open source technologies. Teradata has also made it easier for customers to purchase our solution via subscription offerings, and flexible, "pay for what you use" consumption pricing. These combined capabilities enable companies to reduce complexity, risk, and cost, while leveraging data as an asset in solving their business challenges and driving business outcomes, which can include, among other things:

•Improving customer experience and profitability,

•Improving operational efficiency,

•Driving financial transformation with accurate and timely data,

•Creating a single integrated view of customers across digital and physical channels, and

•Creating more efficient utilization of assets through machine learning of sensor data. 

Our business consulting services include a broad range of offerings, including support for organizations to establish a data and analytics vision, enable a multi-cloud ecosystem architecture and identify and operationalize analytical opportunities to ensure their ecosystem investments deliver significant value. In addition, we offer robust support and maintenance services for our offerings.

5
Teradata operates from numerous locations within the United States with the primary locations being San Diego, California, and Atlanta, Georgia. In addition, we have sales, services, research and development, and administrative offices located in 35 countries.

For the calendar year ended December 31, 2020, we had total revenues of $1.836 billion, of which approximately 56% was derived from the Americas region (North America and Latin America) and 44% from the International regions (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and Japan). For financial information about our segments and geographic information, see "Note 14-Segment, Other Supplemental Information and Concentrations" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report.

History. Teradata originated as a startup in a garage in Brentwood, California, and was incorporated in 1979 as a Delaware corporation, driven by the need for robust computing power to harness the value of aggregated data. In 1991, Teradata was acquired and operated as a division until it was spun off as an independent, publicly-traded company named Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) on September 30, 2007.

Industry and Market Opportunity. Our view is that data and analytics continue to be a management priority for industry-leading companies. We believe that companies are facing significant ongoing increases in data volumes and proliferation of data silos. Furthermore, the agility provided by cloud-based technologies provides significant benefit, but also creates additional complexity, with the rise of and ecosystems that must span multiple cloud and on-premises environments. These factors all contribute to the increased complexity, cost, and risk associated with managing data and analytic environments. This is particularly true for our target market of global enterprise companies, and we believe that these companies require tightly integrated solutions that can accommodate significant scale and speed. We are focused on both new customer acquisition as well as growth of software consumption within our large and established customer base.

We believe Teradata’s strategy positions us to address this large market opportunity within the growing multi-billion dollar data management and analytics markets. We believe our multi-cloud data warehouse software solution will lead to reduced risk and cost for enterprise companies while enabling data insights and outcomes driving meaningful business value. We also believe our experience positions us to support these companies with the design and implementation of next generation secure, multi-cloud data and analytics ecosystems. We have tailored Teradata's offerings to provide flexibility and choice of deployment environments, whether on-premises or in one of the top public clouds, alongside portability of licenses, allowing companies to de-risk their investments.

Our Strategy. Teradata’s strategy is based on our differentiated value proposition for the top 10,000 largest enterprises in the world. Our strategy is to provide a multi-cloud data warehouse platform, Teradata Vantage. Teradata Vantage is a scalable, secure, highly concurrent and resilient data warehouse platform that is designed to help companies solve complex data challenges at scale. We enable enterprises with a data management solution to support their data and analytic ecosystems. Furthermore, as demand in the data warehouse market shifts to the cloud, we provide customers with the ability to migrate their data warehouse to a cloud-based platform.

We believe we are differentiated by providing our platform offering across a secure, multi-cloud ecosystem. This includes the ability to simplify the management of an ecosystem that spans on-premises or private cloud platform instances, alongside deployments in any of the top public cloud offerings including Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud. Furthermore, we augment these offerings with our "pay as you go" consumption pricing to provide flexibility for customers to expand capabilities on an as-needed basis. The multi-cloud capability and consumption pricing combine to enable our customers to de-risk their investments and buying decisions, as well as provide public cloud vendor flexibility. With cloud elasticity and our multi-dimensional scalability, we provide a fast path for customers to grow analytics to scale, delivering robust business outcomes. 

As customers seek to increasingly grow their footprint in cloud, our strategy supports existing and new on-premises customers on that journey with the fastest path to migration that is enabled through license portability, same software enabled in all environments, as well as data and workload migration tools and services. Through this differentiated set of offerings for our target market, we help customers build for the future, now. 

6
By prioritizing the fundamental capabilities of a modern multi-cloud data warehouse, we are resetting expectations and market perceptions. We are enabling a competitive and compelling total cost of ownership by building out best-in-class capabilities that provide an easy experience for ingestion, exploration, development, consumption and operationalization of data and analytics. With an outstanding user experience and the flexibility of cloud, we are attracting new customers to grow from demos and trials, to scale.

Furthermore, with increasingly fragmented ecosystems consisting of best-of-breed tools, our strategy drives an open platform approach, enabling integration into cloud and partner ecosystems. This integration extends the data and analytical capabilities of our offerings, allowing our customers greater flexibility to leverage the tools of their choice, deployed on top of a scalable and robust data warehouse platform. By empowering customers and partners to build how they like, we enable hundreds of business outcomes and solutions. 

Our strategic objectives are to:

•Strengthen our multi-cloud data warehouse offering by building out next generation cloud capabilities,

•Reset market perceptions to establish Teradata’s position in the cloud market,

•Enable end-to-end business outcomes through a seamless cloud user experience,

•Expand our product capabilities through deeper integration with cloud ecosystems,

•Focus on partner enablement to drive solution execution on Teradata Vantage, 

•Accelerate our transition to the cloud by supporting our customers on their migration journeys, 

•Expand strategic public Cloud Service Provider relationships,

•Expand our go-to-market reach through new customer acquisition, vertical investments, expanding customer success programs and strengthening our partner relationships, and

•Deliver operational excellence through efficient cost management and execution.

Our strategy is further supported by various people initiatives to drive a growth-oriented culture, as well as an increased focus on diversity, equity and inclusiveness, to attract and support high performing, top talent, and diverse teams.

Customers. Teradata concentrates on enterprise companies, the 10,000 largest businesses in the world, which view data as a strategic asset, with focus on both business users and technology buyers. We have an additional focus on the following industries: Financial Services, Government, Healthcare, Manufacturing, Retail, Telecommunications, and Travel/Transportation. We believe that these industries provide a good fit for our analytic solutions and services as they typically have the greatest analytic potential with large and growing data volumes, as well as complex data management requirements, and large and varied groups of users. When looking at new customer acquisition, we aim to drive adoption of our Teradata Vantage software. In addition, we are targeting our existing customer base to increase the consumption of Teradata's software, and in particular, supporting our customers with their journeys to the cloud and to exploit new uses of data and analytics.

The extent to which any given customer contributes to our revenues has historically varied significantly from year to year and quarter to quarter, although we currently do not have any customer who represents 5% or more of our total revenue. We have been highly successful in converting customers from perpetual to subscription-based purchasing options, which results in more ratable revenue recognition and we believe this will increase the predictability of our revenue and the durability of our cash flows in the future. Due to the size and complexity of our sales transactions, the sales cycle can often be long.

Seasonality. Historically, our deal volume is seasonal, in line with customer spending patterns, with lower volume typically in the first quarter and higher volume generally in the fourth quarter of each calendar year. Such seasonality causes our working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on the variability in the volume, timing, and mix of platform sales. As we have transitioned the business to subscription-based transactions, the business is becoming less seasonal as subscription renewals are more evenly distributed throughout the year. This is impacting timing of cash collection and billings. However, typical of the enterprise software market, Teradata will continue to have significant deal volume seasonality that skews to the fourth quarter. Historically, cash provided by operating activities is higher in the first half of the year due to collections of the higher receivable balances at December 31 driven by the higher volumes in the fourth quarter and receipts from annual renewals of our maintenance support agreements. In addition, deal volume in the third month of each quarter 

7
has historically been significantly higher than in the first and second months. These factors, among others as more fully described in Item 1A, Risk Factors, elsewhere in this Annual Report, make forecasting more difficult and may adversely affect our ability to accurately predict financial results.

Backlog. Our backlog was approximately $2.9 billion at December 31, 2020, an increase from $2.7 billion on December 31, 2019. Approximately $1.5 billion of the backlog at December 31, 2020 is expected to be recognized as revenue in 2021. Backlog consists of firm contracts for work that has not yet been performed or goods that have not been delivered. Backlog includes $537 million at December 31, 2020 and $533 million at December 31, 2019 for backlog that had been invoiced, and therefore, was included in deferred revenue. Although we believe that the contract value included in backlog is firm, some contracts may provide that the Company is contractually obligated to perform but gives the customer the right to cancel for convenience by giving notice to Teradata.

Sales, Marketing and Partners

Sales and Marketing. We primarily sell and market our solutions and services through a direct sales force. We have greater than 80% of our employees in customer-facing and/or revenue-driving roles (including sales, marketing, consulting, customer service, and product engineering).

We support our sales force with marketing and training programs that are designed to:

•Grow awareness and increase perception of Teradata as a multi-cloud leader, highlighting our technology leadership, differentiation, cloud and analytics expertise; 

•Lead customers on their cloud journeys with the benefits of multi-cloud and hybrid cloud capabilities;

•Create demand for and adoption of our Teradata Vantage data warehouse platform;

•Educate and enable the sales force with the skills and knowledge to deliver our value proposition; and 

•Provide a robust set of tools for use by our sales teams.

Teradata focuses our brand messaging on the Company’s strength as a multi-cloud data warehouse platform provider. To support the Company’s growth objectives, we employ a broad range of marketing strategies, including programs to inform, educate and generate demand with customers and prospects, as well as keep our leading technology position at the forefront of the media, industry analysts, academics, and other influencers. These strategies include targeted account-based marketing, our global website, digital marketing, demos and trials of our software, webinars, virtual conferences and events now, and physical events when again safe to do so, post the global pandemic, public and media relations, social media, and an extensive customer reference program.

Strategic Partnerships. We seek to extend our sales and marketing reach by partnering with cloud service providers, alliance partners (including independent software vendors and open-source software distributors), leading global and regional systems integrators, consultants, and universities that we believe complement our differentiated offerings. Strategic partnerships are a key element in our ability to leverage the value and expand the scope of our data warehouse offering in the marketplace.

•Cloud Service Providers: Teradata has established partnerships with the top three global public cloud service providers: Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud, so that Teradata can provide companies around the globe access to Teradata’s Vantage offering in the public cloud, both in a Do-It-Yourself or As-A-Service mode to accommodate customer preferences.

•Alliance Partners: Teradata has a focus on working collaboratively with independent software vendors in several areas, including tools, data and application integration solutions, data mining, analytics, business intelligence, and specific analytic and industry solutions. Our goal is to provide choices to our customers with partner offerings that are optimized and certified to work with Teradata Vantage to deliver end-to-end data warehouse analytic solutions and to provide comprehensive capabilities that support the customer’s analytic ecosystem.

•Systems Integrators and Consultants: We also work with a range of systems integrators and consultants who engage in the design, implementation, and integration of data warehouse and analytic solutions and analytic applications for our joint customers. Our strategic partnerships with select global consulting and 

8
systems integration firms provide broad industry and technology expertise in the design of business solutions that leverage Teradata technology to enable enterprise analytics.

Competition. We compete in a large and growing data management and analytics market that is attractive to both current and new competitors. Participants in our general market include traditional data warehouse competitors such as IBM, Oracle, SAP, as well as new cloud-only data warehouse vendors (such as Amazon, Google, Snowflake), and open-source providers. We believe our focus on multi-cloud ecosystem simplification, solving for the most scalable and complex workloads and delivering business outcomes enables us to successfully compete within our target market. We believe that our Teradata Vantage platform is highly differentiated, delivers substantive scale and integration, and is uniquely positioned to provide significant business value to our customers. Furthermore, we provide our customers with the opportunity to de-risk their buying decisions with access to deploy across the top public clouds, private cloud and on-premises, coupled with flexibility in purchasing and portable licensing. For more information on competition, see Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Annual Report.

We believe that the principal competitive factors for our products and services include: data and analytics experience; business outcome delivery; multi-cloud offerings and experience; customer references; technology leadership; product quality; performance, scalability, availability, and manageability; support and consulting services capabilities; management of technologies in a complex analytical ecosystem; industry knowledge; and total cost of ownership. We believe we have a competitive advantage in providing complete, integrated, and optimized data warehouse platform capabilities and analytic services that address customers’ business, technical, and architectural requirements. Our differentiation is especially strong in our target market of the world’s leading enterprises and their mission-critical, complex, large-scale environments and requirements.

Research and Development ("R&D"). We remain focused on designing and developing data warehouse technologies that anticipate our customers' evolving needs and support our customers in solving their most complex business challenges. Our teams are focused on extending our Teradata Vantage data warehouse platform to have differentiated capabilities for our customers’ multi-cloud and hybrid ecosystems. This includes simplifying the journey to cloud, as well as enabling a transformative cloud experience. With a focus on opening up the platform, we are building out deep integration with cloud data and analytic ecosystems, including advanced analytics and artificial intelligence tools. Furthermore, with a strong focus on partnerships, our R&D team is extending our platform to enable deeper partner integration with a broader range of solution and services providers. 

We believe our extensive and deeply talented R&D workforce is one of our core strengths. Our R&D team is located in multiple locations around the world to take advantage of global engineering talent. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures, which may include complementary strategic acquisitions, to help support the flow of innovative, high-quality cloud-based offerings with a superior user experience, as well as services, which are vital to our leading competitive position. For information regarding the accounting and costs included in R&D activities, see "Note 1-Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Intellectual Property and Technology. The Company owns 648 patents in the United States and 6 patents in foreign countries. The foreign patents are generally counterparts of the Company’s United States patents. The Company also is the exclusive licensee of four additional patents in the United States and three additional patents in foreign countries. Many of the patents that we own are licensed to others, and we are licensed to use certain patents owned by others. While our portfolio of patents and patent applications in aggregate is of significant value to our Company, we do not believe that any individual patent is by itself of material importance to our business.

In addition, the Company owns copyrights and trade secrets in our code base that comprises all of the Teradata software offerings, including analytic data platforms and analytic applications. Teradata’s software offerings reflect the investment of hundreds of person-years of development work.

The source code versions of our offerings are protected as trade secrets and, in all major markets, as unpublished copyright works. We take great efforts to protect our rights in all software offerings and related intellectual property; however, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. The Company owns the Teradata® word and logo trademarks, which are registered in the United States and in many foreign countries, as well as other trade names, service marks, and trademarks.

9
Sources of Materials. Our hardware components are assembled and configured by Flex Ltd. ("Flex"). Our platform line is designed to leverage the components from manufacturers that we believe are industry leaders. Our data storage devices and memory components utilize industry-standard technologies but are selected and configured to work optimally with our software and hardware platform. Flex also procures a wide variety of components used in the assembly process on our behalf. Although many of these components are available from multiple sources, Teradata utilizes preferred supplier relationships to better ensure more consistent quality, cost and delivery. Typically, these preferred suppliers maintain alternative processes and/or facilities to ensure business continuity of supply. Given our strategy to outsource product assembly activities to Flex and to source certain components from single suppliers, a disruption in production at Flex or at a supplier, or a global shortage of components, could impact the timing or profitability of customer shipments. In addition, a significant change in the forecasts to any of these preferred suppliers could result in purchase obligations for components that may be in excess of demand. Although the Company has not experienced significant disruptions in its supplier relationships due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the ongoing pandemic continues to present potential supply chain uncertainty, and the Company has implemented programs to mitigate these potential risks. For more information, see Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report.

Human Capital

Teradata’s human capital management objectives are to attract, retain, and develop the highest quality of talent, which allows our employees to thrive while positioning us as to execute our Company strategy and drive profitable growth. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain the services of senior management and key personnel in all functional areas of our Company, with a heightened focus on sales and cloud talent. Competition for acquiring top talent and retaining our highly skilled personnel is intense throughout the IT industry. Our programs are designed to align to our core principles and focus on meaningful work, enabled management, a positive and inclusive workplace environment, career growth opportunities, and transparent and trustworthy leadership. We also provide competitive pay and offer comprehensive health and wellness benefits and programs.

As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 7,543 employees globally, with approximately 30% employed in the United States and 70% across the rest of the world. Our global workforce is critical to our overall business strategy across target markets. During fiscal 2020, our overall headcount decreased by approximately 10% as we continued to align our talent needs to drive our Company’s cloud-first, profitable growth strategy, including through both voluntary and involuntary workforce rationalization measures. 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. Teradata’s core strength is our people, and creating an inclusive workplace where everyone feels safe and welcome being their genuine and authentic selves is a key focus for us. We are an equal opportunity employer, committed to sustaining a world-class team by providing an environment that is intentionally inclusive and fully encourages and leverages diversity in all aspects of our business.

We have many people and culture initiatives, with a strong focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion ("DEI").

•Our executive team has signed a pledge committing to DEI and racism. 

•We created a DEI Advisory Board to support the Company’s mission to eradicate racism and inequality in the workplace. 

•We provide resources and tools for our employees to help them engage within culturally- and geographically-dispersed work teams to enable a culture of growth, learning, and collaboration. In 2020, we launched our Culture Learning Lab, Inclusive Leadership Learning Lab, and Diversity Dialogues programs, all of which deliver interactive learning that heightens the behaviors and insights that build and support an inclusive culture and strive to erase bias.

•We continue to empower our Inclusion Communities, which are networks of employees who unite based on shared characteristics, life experiences, or common interests. These communities are designed to provide support, networking and enhanced career and personal development. These networks include Teradata Alliance of Black Employees, Blend, Veterans Community, Teradata Pride, HISPA (Hispanic and Latin Allies), Women of Teradata, Green Team, Terabytes (work-life integration), and Toastmasters International.

10
•In further support of the communities where we operate and live, we launched a Diversity in Technology Scholarship Program for underrepresented minorities who are pursuing STEM-related degrees; and

•Teradata earned a score of 90 out of 100 in the Human Rights Campaign 2021 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a benchmarking survey and report that measures corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ equality.

We believe that a diverse workforce is critical to the Company’s success, and we will continue to focus on the hiring, retention and advancement of underrepresented minorities and women in technology.

Health, Safety, and Wellness. We are committed to the health, safety, and wellness of our employees. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of flexible and convenient health and wellness programs. In 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we took several actions to promote the health and well-being of our employees, as described below under "COVID-19 Update" in Item 7, Management Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). 

Compensation and Benefits. A key to our attraction, retention, and engagement strategies are the robust compensation and benefit programs we provide that are designed to meet the varied and evolving needs of a diverse workforce globally. In addition to our base pay scheme, these programs (which vary by country/region) include sales incentive, annual bonuses, stock awards, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a 401(k) Savings Plan, healthcare and insurance benefits, paid time off, family leave, and paid parental leave. 

Talent Development. Teradata is continuously focused on promoting the professional development of our employees and providing tools that enable employees to manage their careers. Our talent development programs provide employees with the resources to advance their careers, build leadership skills, and lead within their organizations. We have launched on-demand learning resources, such as LinkedIn Learning and Country Navigator. Our Learning Labs focus on Understanding Culture, Inclusive Leadership and Creating Your Personal Brand. We also provide executive and management development programs.

Community Engagement. We believe that building connections between our employees, their families, and our communities creates a more meaningful, fulfilling, and enjoyable workplace. We support local STEM education programs to ensure emerging leaders in our communities have opportunities to explore their interests. Our Teradata Cares program empowers our employees to help build strong and vibrant communities, improve quality of life, and make a positive difference where we live and work through volunteerism and giving. We support our employees’ giving and volunteer efforts by providing matching donations for employee contributions to qualified not-for-profit agencies, project grants, Annual Days of Caring, and supporting communities where we have employee populations. To further enable employees to support the charity of their choice, we afford every employee four days a year, during normal working hours, for volunteer efforts of their choice. 

Properties and Facilities. Our corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California. As of December 31, 2020, we operated 79 facilities in 35 countries throughout the world. We own our San Diego complex, while all other facilities are leased.

Information About Our Executive Officers. The following table and biographies sets forth information as of February 26, 2021 regarding the individuals who are serving as our executive officers. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11
Stephen McMillan. Stephen McMillan is the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and has served in this role since joining the Company in June 2020. Mr. McMillan has served on the Company’s Board of Directors since June 2020. Previously, he served as the Executive Vice President of Global Services for F5 Networks, Inc., a transnational company that specializes in application services and application delivery networking, from October 2017 when he joined F5 until May 2020. Prior to joining F5, from September 2015 until October 2017, he was Senior Vice President, Customer Success and Managed Cloud Services at Oracle, where he was responsible for developing, overseeing, and expanding a customer success organization focused on the company’s strategic SaaS portfolio .From May 2012 to September 2015, he served as Senior Vice President, Managed Cloud Services at Oracle. Prior to joining Oracle, Mr. McMillan spent 19 years at IBM, where he held a number of leadership roles focused on global managed services, consulting, and IT.

Hillary Ashton. Hillary Ashton is the Company’s Chief Product Officer and has served in this role since August 2020. Prior to that Ms. Ashton served as the Executive Vice President of Teradata Products from November 2019, when she joined the Company, until August 2020. Prior to joining Teradata, she served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of PTC’s Augmented Reality (AR) business unit from July 2018 until November 2019. In this role, she was responsible for all operational aspects of the Vuforia business and its product lines, including executive leadership and vision, strategy, sales, and marketing. From 2014 to 2018, she served as SVP of Analytics SaaS solutions at Manthan and as Director, Customer Intelligence Solutions at SAS from 2003 to 2014. 

Todd Cione. Todd Cione is the Company’s Chief Revenue Officer and has served in this role since joining Teradata in January 2021. Mr. Cione served as the Head of U.S. Enterprise Accounts for Apple, Inc., from the time he joined the company in July 2017 until December 2020. Prior to joining Apple, from 2016 until 2017, he was Senior Vice President, Oracle Digital, North America Applications, and from 2013 to 2015, he served as Chief Revenue Officer at Rackspace. Prior to joining Rackspace, Mr.Cione spent 15 years at Microsoft, where he most recently served as the Asia-Pacific Chief Operating Officer, based in Singapore. 

Mark Culhane. Mark Culhane is the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and has served in this role since joining Teradata in November 2017. He served as the Chief Financial Officer for Lithium Technologies, a software applications company, from 2012 to 2016, and as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at DemandTec, a provider of a cloud-based collaborative optimization network for retailers and consumer products companies that was acquired by IBM in 2012, from 2001 to 2012. He currently serves on the board of directors of a private cloud-based software company, UserZoom, Inc. From June 2010 until its acquisition in April 2018, he served on the board of directors of Callidus Software, Inc., a cloud software company and global leader in sales performance management software, where he was the chair of its audit committee. From 2016 until November 2017, Mr. Culhane ran Culhane Advisory Services which provided management consulting services to venture- and private-equity-backed cloud software companies. 

Kathleen Cullen-Cote. Kathleen Cullen-Cote is the Company’s Chief Human Resources Officer and has served in this role since joining Teradata in July 2019. Prior to joining Teradata, Ms. Cullen-Cote served in human resource leadership roles at PTC Inc., a global computer software and services company, from 2002 to June 2019, including Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer from April 2019 to July 2019; Corporate Vice President, Human Resources from 2012 until March 2019; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, from December 2010 to 2012; and Vice President, Human Resources, from October 2009 until December 2010. Prior to that, Ms. Cullen-Cote served in human resource leadership roles at Imark Communications, Johnson and Johnson, Raytheon, and Barry Controls. 

Martyn Etherington. Martyn Etherington is the Company’s Chief Marketing Officer and has served in this role since joining Teradata in March 2018. Prior to joining Teradata, from 2015 to 2017, he served as the Chief Marketing Officer, IoT Cloud, at Cisco Jasper, a global market leader for Internet of Things connectivity management. From 2012 to 2015, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, and Chief of Staff for Mitel Networks Corporation, a telecommunications company. Mr. Etherington served as Chief Marketing Officer and Vice President, Business Operations at Tektronix/Danaher from 2002 to 2012 with responsibility for companywide strategy development and deployment, global marketing and business operations. 

Daniel Harrington. Daniel Harrington is the Company’s Chief Services Officer and has served in this role since 2012. Previously, from 2007 to 2012, Mr. Harrington served as Executive Vice President, Technology and Support 

12
Services of Teradata. Prior to joining Teradata, he served as Vice President, Customer Services, Teradata Division of NCR Corporation, from 2005 until 2007. From 1999 to 2005, he was Vice President, Northern Europe, Teradata Division at NCR with responsibility for European sales. Prior to that, Mr. Harrington held a number of positions of increasing responsibility in the areas of sales, marketing and product management at NCR since joining the company in 1985.

Margaret Treese. Margaret Treese is the Company’s Chief Legal Officer and has served in this role since November 2020. Previously, from 2018 until January 2020, she served as Teradata’s Deputy General Counsel and Secretary. From 2007 until 2018, she served as the Chief Corporate and Governance Counsel and Assistant Secretary and was named Corporate Secretary of Teradata in 2018. Prior to joining Teradata, from 1995 to 2007, Ms. Treese held positions of increasing responsibility at NCR, including Law Vice President and Chief Americas Region Counsel for the Teradata Division Law Group, Chief Corporate Counsel and Assistant Secretary.

There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers or directors of Teradata.

There are no contractual obligations regarding the election of our executive officers or directors.

Information. Teradata makes available through its website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). These reports and other information are available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. Teradata will furnish, without charge to a security holder upon written request, the Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Teradata will furnish the Code of Conduct and any other exhibit at cost (the Code of Conduct is also available through Teradata’s website at http://www.teradata.com/code-of-conduct/). Document requests are available by calling or writing to:

Teradata - Investor Relations

17095 Via Del Campo

San Diego, CA 92127

Phone: 858-485-2088

 Website: www.teradata.com

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS