ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE Connectivity” or the “Company,” which may be referred to as “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a global industrial technology leader creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future. Our broad range of connectivity and sensor solutions, proven in the harshest environments, enable advancements in transportation, industrial applications, medical technology, energy, data communications, and the home.

We became an independent, publicly traded company in 2007; however, through our predecessor companies, we trace our foundations in the connectivity business back to 1941. We are organized under the laws of Switzerland. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by Swiss law, our Swiss articles of association, and our Swiss organizational regulations.

We have a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Friday of September. Fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019 were each 52 weeks in length and ended on September 24, 2021, September 25, 2020, and September 27, 2019, respectively. For fiscal years in which there are 53 weeks, the fourth fiscal quarter includes 14 weeks, with the next such occurrence taking place in fiscal 2022.

COVID-19 Pandemic

A novel strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”) was first identified in China in December 2019 and subsequently declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. COVID-19 has surfaced in nearly all regions around the world and resulted in business slowdowns or shutdowns and travel restrictions in affected areas. The pandemic had a significant, negative impact on our sales and operating results during fiscal 2020 and continued to negatively affect certain of our businesses in fiscal 2021. See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial results. Also, see “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” for discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Segments

We operate through three reportable segments: Transportation Solutions, Industrial Solutions, and Communications Solutions. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, our three segments served a combined market of approximately $190 billion. Although COVID-19 negatively affected our markets in fiscal 2020, certain of our markets experienced recovery in fiscal 2021. We expect this recovery will continue and our three segments will once again serve a combined market of approximately $190 billion in future periods.

Our net sales by segment as a percentage of our total net sales were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Below is a description of our reportable segments and the primary products, markets, and competitors of each segment.

1 
Transportation Solutions

The Transportation Solutions segment is a leader in connectivity and sensor technologies. The primary products sold by the Transportation Solutions segment include terminals and connector systems and components, sensors, relays, antennas, heat shrink tubing, and application tooling. The Transportation Solutions segment’s products, which must withstand harsh conditions, are used in the following end markets:

●Automotive (71% of segment’s net sales)—We are one of the leading providers of advanced automobile connectivity solutions. The automotive industry uses our products in automotive technologies for body and chassis systems, convenience applications, driver information, infotainment solutions, miniaturization solutions, motor and powertrain applications, and safety and security systems. Hybrid and electronic mobility solutions include in-vehicle technologies, battery technologies, and charging solutions.

●Commercial transportation (16% of segment’s net sales)—We deliver reliable connectivity products designed to withstand harsh environmental conditions for on- and off-highway vehicles and recreational transportation, including heavy trucks, construction, agriculture, buses, and other vehicles.

●Sensors (13% of segment’s net sales)—We offer a portfolio of intelligent, efficient, and high-performing sensor solutions that are used by customers across multiple industries, including automotive, industrial equipment, commercial transportation, medical solutions, aerospace and defense, and consumer applications.

The Transportation Solutions segment’s major competitors include Yazaki, Aptiv, Sumitomo, Sensata, Honeywell, Molex, and Amphenol.

Industrial Solutions

The Industrial Solutions segment is a leading supplier of products that connect and distribute power, data, and signals. The primary products sold by the Industrial Solutions segment include terminals and connector systems and components, interventional medical components, heat shrink tubing, relays, and wire and cable. The Industrial Solutions segment’s products are used in the following end markets:

●Industrial equipment (36% of segment’s net sales)—Our products are used in factory and warehouse automation and process control systems such as industrial controls, robotics, human machine interface, industrial communication, and power distribution. Our building automation and smart city infrastructure products are used to connect lighting and offer solutions in HVAC, elevators/escalators, and security. Our rail products are used in high-speed trains, metros, light rail vehicles, locomotives, and signaling switching equipment.

●Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas (27% of segment’s net sales)—We design, develop, and manufacture a comprehensive portfolio of critical electronic components and systems for the harsh operating conditions of the commercial aerospace, defense, and marine industries. Our products and systems are designed and manufactured to operate effectively in harsh conditions ranging from the depths of the ocean to the far reaches of space.

●Energy (19% of segment’s net sales)—Our products are used by electric power utilities, OEMs, and engineering procurement construction companies serving the electrical power grid and renewables industries. They include a wide range of insulation, protection, and connection solutions for electrical power generation, transmission, distribution, and industrial markets.

●Medical (18% of segment’s net sales)—Our products are used in imaging, diagnostic, surgical, and minimally invasive interventional applications. We specialize in the design and manufacture of advanced surgical, imaging, and interventional device solutions. Key markets served include cardiovascular, peripheral vascular, structural heart, endoscopy, electrophysiology, and neurovascular therapies.

The Industrial Solutions segment competes primarily against Amphenol, Hubbell, Carlisle Companies, Integer Holdings, Esterline, Molex, and Omron.

2 
Communications Solutions

The Communications Solutions segment is a leading supplier of electronic components for the data and devices and the appliances markets. The primary products sold by the Communications Solutions segment include terminals and connector systems and components, relays, heat shrink tubing, and antennas. The Communications Solutions segment’s products are used in the following end markets:

·

Data and devices (57% of segment’s net sales)—We deliver products and solutions that are used in a variety of equipment architectures within the networking equipment, data center equipment, and wireless infrastructure industries. Additionally, we deliver a range of connectivity solutions for the Internet of Things, smartphones, tablet computers, notebooks, and virtual reality applications to help our customers meet their current challenges and future innovations.

·

Appliances (43% of segment’s net sales)—We provide solutions to meet the daily demands of home appliances. Our products are used in many household appliances, including washers, dryers, refrigerators, air conditioners, dishwashers, cooking appliances, water heaters, air purifiers, floor care devices, and microwaves. Our expansive range of standard products is supplemented by an array of custom-designed solutions.

The Communications Solutions segment’s major competitors include Amphenol, Molex, JST, and Korea Electric Terminal (KET).

Customers

As an industry leader, we have established close working relationships with many of our customers. These relationships allow us to better anticipate and respond to customer needs when designing new products and new technical solutions. By working with our customers in developing new products and technologies, we believe we can identify and act on trends and leverage knowledge about next-generation technology across our products.

Our approach to our customers is driven by our dedication to further develop our product families and ensure that we are globally positioned to best provide our customers with sales and engineering support. We believe that as electronic component technologies continue to proliferate, our broad product portfolio and engineering capability give us a potential competitive advantage when addressing the needs of our global customers.

We manufacture and sell a broad portfolio of products to customers in various industries. Our customers include many of the leaders in their respective industries, and our relationships with them typically date back many years. We believe that our diversified customer base provides us an opportunity to leverage our skills and experience across markets and reduce our exposure to individual end markets, thereby reducing the variability of our financial performance. Additionally, we believe that the diversity of our customer base reduces the level of cyclicality in our results and distinguishes us from our competitors.

No single customer accounted for a significant amount of our net sales in fiscal 2021, 2020, or 2019.

Sales and Distribution

We maintain a strong local presence in each of the geographic regions in which we operate. Our net sales by geographic region(1) as a percentage of our total net sales were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)

Net sales to external customers are attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale.

3 
We sell our products into approximately 140 countries primarily through direct selling efforts to manufacturers. In fiscal 2021, our direct sales represented approximately 80% of total net sales. We also sell our products indirectly via third-party distributors.

We maintain distribution centers around the world. Products are generally delivered to the distribution centers by our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the customer. In some instances, however, products are delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. Our global coverage positions us near our customers’ locations and allows us to assist them in consolidating their supply base and lowering their production costs. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products globally via road, rail, sea, and air. We believe our balanced sales distribution lowers our exposure to any particular geography and improves our financial profile.

Seasonality and Backlog

Typically, we experience a slight seasonal pattern to our business. Overall, the third and fourth fiscal quarters are usually the strongest quarters of our fiscal year, whereas the first fiscal quarter is negatively affected by holidays and the second fiscal quarter may be affected by adverse winter weather conditions in some of our markets.

Certain of our end markets experience some seasonality. Our sales in the automotive market are dependent upon global automotive production, and seasonal declines in European production may negatively impact net sales in the fourth fiscal quarter. Also, our sales in the energy market typically increase in the third and fourth fiscal quarters as customer activity increases.

Customer orders and demand may fluctuate as a result of economic and market conditions, including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Backlog by reportable segment was as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We expect that the majority of our backlog at fiscal year end 2021 will be filled during fiscal 2022. Backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales as unfilled orders may be cancelled prior to shipment of goods.

Competition

The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and we compete with thousands of companies that range from large multinational corporations to local manufacturers. Competition is generally based on breadth of product offering, product innovation, price, quality, delivery, and service. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, downward pressure on prices. However, as a result of increased costs, certain of our businesses implemented price increases in fiscal 2021.

Raw Materials

We use a wide variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products. The principal raw materials that we use include plastic resins for molding; precious metals such as gold and silver for plating; and other metals such as copper, aluminum, brass, and steel for manufacturing cable, contacts, and other parts that are used for cable and component bodies and inserts. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. The prices of these materials are driven by global supply and demand. As markets recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, increases in consumer demand have led to shortages and price increases in some of our input materials.

4 
Intellectual Property

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others.

We own a large portfolio of patents that relate principally to electrical, optical, and electronic products. We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the trademarks.

While we consider our patents and trademarks to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position or our operations are dependent upon or would be materially impacted by any single patent or group of related patents.

Human Capital Management

We have employees located throughout the world. As of fiscal year end 2021, we employed approximately 89,000 people worldwide, including contract employees. Approximately 37,000 were in the EMEA region, 24,000 were in the Asia–Pacific region, and 28,000 were in the Americas region. Of our total employees, approximately 56,000 were employed in manufacturing. Our strong employee base, along with their commitment to uncompromising values, provides the foundation of our company’s success. 

Our core values—integrity, accountability, teamwork, and innovation—govern us. They guide our decisions and our actions, both individually and as an organization. Additionally, our employees are responsible for upholding our purpose—to create a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future. We track and report internally on key talent metrics including workforce demographics, critical role pipeline data, diversity data, and engagement and inclusion indices. We aspire to have more than 26% women in leadership roles by fiscal 2025 and are committed to increasing the total number of women across all levels of the organization. Additionally, as part of its charter, the management development and compensation committee of our board of directors oversees our policies and practices related to the management of human capital resources including talent management, culture, diversity, and inclusion. 

We embrace diversity and inclusion. A truly innovative workforce needs to be diverse and leverage the skills and perspectives of a wealth of backgrounds and experiences. To drive our business outcomes globally, we believe we must build a workforce and supplier network that represents our global markets and the customers we serve. We are also committed to a work environment where all employees are engaged, feel differences are valued and mutually-respected, and believe that all opinions count. Our people reflect our customers and markets. Our employees are in over 50 countries representing approximately 120 nationalities, and our total employee population is over 40% women. Our employee resource groups (“ERGs”) are company-sponsored, voluntary, employee-led groups that focus on diverse talent segments or shared experiences of employees. These groups apply those perspectives to create value for our company as a whole. The ERGs provide a space where employees can foster connections and develop in a supportive environment. As of fiscal year end 2021, we had eight ERGs—ALIGN (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/questioning employees and their allies), Women in Networking, TE Young Professionals, African Heritage, Asian Heritage, Latin Heritage, THRIVE (employees and their allies with mixed mental, emotional, and physical abilities), and TE Veterans. Our ERGs have a total of over 6,000 members. 

During fiscal 2021, we conducted our second consecutive employee engagement survey which was a fully digital, enterprise-wide survey available in 15 languages and focused on measuring engagement, inclusion, and leadership effectiveness. We had a participation rate of over 80% in fiscal 2021. Both our participation rate and engagement score improved in fiscal 2021 while our inclusion score remained consistent with fiscal 2020. Fiscal 2021 was the first year leadership effectiveness was measured as part of this survey. Additionally, our survey results for fiscal 2021 were favorable when compared to Glint Inc.’s external global manufacturing benchmark. By fiscal 2025, we aspire to be in the top tier of this benchmark on engagement and inclusion.

We continue to emphasize employee development and training to support engagement and retention. To empower employees to unleash their potential, we provide a range of development programs and opportunities, skills, and resources 

5 
they need to be successful. Our LEARN@TE platform supplements our talent development strategies. It is an online portal that enables employees to access instructor-led classroom or virtual courses and self-directed web-based courses. Strategy, execution, and talent (“SET”) leadership expectations, which focus on how we drive strategy, effectively execute, and build talent, have been rolled out to all employees and are embedded in all of our leadership programs. We integrate these behavioral expectations into the way we assess and select talent, manage performance, and develop and reward our people. 

We are committed to identifying and developing our next generation of leaders. We have a robust talent and succession planning process and have established specialized programs to support the development of our talent pipeline for critical roles in general management, engineering, and operations, as well as the diversity of our talent. We are focused on both the recruitment of diverse candidates and the development of our diverse employees to provide the opportunity to advance their careers and move into leadership positions within the company. On an annual basis, we conduct an organization and leadership review process with our chief executive officer and all segment, business unit, and function leaders focusing on our high-performing and high-potential talent, diverse talent, and the succession for our most critical roles. Also, our board of directors reviews and assesses management development plans for senior executives and the succession plans relating to those positions.

We are committed to the safety, health, human rights, and well-being of our employees. We continuously evaluate opportunities to raise safety and health standards through our environmental, health, and safety team. Compliance audits and internal processes are in place to stay ahead of workplace hazards, and we aim to reduce our Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) total recordable incident rate—a rate equivalent to the number of incidents per 100 employees or 200,000 work hours—to 0.12 by fiscal 2025. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken additional actions to protect the physical and mental health and well-being of our global employees. We have utilized our workplace flexibility guidelines, promoted our Wellbeing Connection program and health care benefits to support the needs of all employees, and instituted additional safety measures at all factories and sites. In fiscal 2021, we implemented a human rights policy for the organization outlining our commitment to operating with respect for human rights.

We believe our management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology leadership. Our chief executive officer and segment leaders average over 25 years of industry experience. They are supported by an experienced and talented management team who is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader in the industry. For discussion of the risks relating to the attraction and retention of management and executive management employees, see “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Government Regulation and Supervision

The import and export of products are subject to regulation by the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. A small portion of our products, including defense-related products, may require governmental import and export licenses, whose issuance may be influenced by geopolitical and other events. We have a trade compliance organization and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with such regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with domestic and foreign trade regulation could limit our ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding trade compliance matters. Also, see “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” for discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with trade regulations.

Environmental

Our operations are subject to numerous environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous materials in products, and chemical usage. We are committed to complying with these laws and to the protection of our employees and the environment. We maintain a global environmental, health, and safety program that includes appropriate policies and standards; staff dedicated to environmental, health, and safety issues; periodic compliance auditing; training; and other measures. We also have a program for compliance with the European Union (“EU”) Restriction of Hazardous Substances and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives, the China Administrative Measures for the Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Products, the EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”) Regulation, and similar laws.

Compliance with these laws has increased our costs of doing business in a variety of ways and may continue to do so in the future. For example, laws regarding product content and chemical registration require extensive and costly data 

6 
collection, management, and reporting, and laws regulating greenhouse gas emissions may increase our costs for energy and certain materials and products. We also have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing sites to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. Based upon our experience, available information, and applicable laws, as of fiscal year end 2021, we concluded that we would incur investigation and remediation costs at these sites in the reasonably possible range of $18 million to $47 million, and we accrued $21 million as the probable loss, which was the best estimate within this range. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2022 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with laws or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions.

Sustainability

We look to build on our strong foundation of environmental sustainability in our operations. Our environmental sustainability strategy guides how we balance investor and customer expectations and drive improved environmental sustainability.

Our sustainability initiatives in our operations began more than 10 years ago. From fiscal 2010 to 2020, we achieved more than a 25% reduction in absolute energy usage, absolute greenhouse gas emissions (Scopes 1 and 2), and absolute water usage. Over the last few years, we have recycled approximately 80% of the waste materials from our operations. We have challenged ourselves to find new ways to continue to drive sustainability improvements. In fiscal 2021, we:

●established a new goal to further reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from our operations by more than 40%, on an absolute basis, by fiscal 2030 and made measurable progress towards this goal;

●improved our energy efficiency through energy efficient solutions such as implementing operating standards and advancing our equipment infrastructure (for example, LED lighting, compressor controls, and HVAC); and

●reported our Scope 3 emissions to CDP for the first time.

While sustainability is embedded in our operations, we are exploring opportunities with our direct suppliers and logistics service providers to strengthen the environmental sustainability of our supply chain. The majority of our greenhouse gas emissions are from the goods and services we use in our operations. In addition to improving the sustainability of our operations and working with our suppliers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, we help our customers produce smaller, lighter, and more energy-efficient products, reducing the environmental impact of the products our customers make through the life of their products. With every product that comes out of our facilities, we support a safer, sustainable, productive, and connected future.

Additional information regarding our sustainability initiatives and progress is available in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report and Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) Report located on our website at www.te.com under the heading “Corporate Responsibility.” The contents of our Corporate Responsibility Report and TCFD Report are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration filings, and other filings that we are required to file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) are available free of charge through our internet website at www.te.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing or furnishing of the material with the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

​

7 
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS