ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties and investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing in our securities. We seek to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities.

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry

We are impacted by demand for advertising, which, in turn, depends on a number of factors, some of which are cyclical and many of which are beyond our control

In 2020, 40% of our revenues were derived from television spot and digital advertising. Demand for advertising is highly dependent upon the strength of the U.S. economy, both in the markets our stations serve and in the nation as a whole. During an economic downturn, demand for advertising often decreases. Consequently, our operating results depend on the relative strength of the economy in our principal television markets as well as the strength or weakness of regional and national economic factors. A decline in economic conditions in the U.S. could have a significant adverse impact on our businesses and could significantly impact our television spot and digital advertising revenues. 

Our advertising revenues can also be affected by a variety of other factors outside our control, including, among other things, the viewership of the programming offered by our television stations, local and national advertising price fluctuations, the duration and extent of any network preemption of regularly scheduled programming for any reason, and labor disputes or other disruptions at programming providers, networks or professional sports leagues. Our advertising revenues can also vary substantially from year to year, driven by the political election cycle (i.e., even years); the ability and willingness of candidates and political action committees to raise and spend funds on television and digital advertising; and the competitiveness of the election races in our stations’ markets. 

Competition from alternative forms of media may impair our ability to grow or maintain revenue levels in traditional and new businesses

Advertising and marketing services produce a significant portion of our revenues, with our stations’ affiliated desktop, mobile and tablet advertising revenues, as well as our OTT product offerings being important components. Technology, particularly new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the Internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies used in the entertainment industry continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume news and entertainment, including through so-called “cutting the cord” and other consumption strategies. 

These innovations may affect our ability to generate television audience, which may make our television stations less attractive to advertisers. For example, increasing demand for content generated for consumption through other forms of media such as Amazon Prime, Disney+, HBO Go, Hulu, or Netflix, could cause our advertising revenues to decline as a result of changes to the ratings of our programming, which may materially negatively affect our business and results of operations. 

A resurgence in the rate of COVID-19 infections that is significant enough to force widespread business closures could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

During the first quarter of 2020, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) believed to have been first identified in Wuhan, China, spread globally, including to every state in the United States. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic, and on March 13, 2020, the United States declared a national emergency with respect to COVID-19. The federal and state governments in the United States have responded by instituting a wide variety of mitigating control measures, including, mandatory quarantines, closures of non-essential businesses and all other places of social interaction, while implementing “shelter in place” orders and restricting travel. Such control measures have resulted in cancellation or postponement of sporting events, including the Olympics, and suspension of popular entertainment content production. The mitigating control measures began negatively impacting our AMS revenue stream in mid-March 2020 as demand for non-political advertising and marketing services softened. During the second and third quarters of 2020, certain state and local governments began to implement multi-step policies towards re-opening and lifting the control measures. Demand for many sectors’ 

19

advertising and marketing services increased as this occurred. However, some states which re-opened also experienced increases in new COVID-19 cases, forcing some to reinstate control measures and restrict public gatherings. Through the end of the fourth quarter of 2020, case and fatality figures continued to trend upwards, both nationally and in many states, though several vaccines have now been approved for emergency use and are beginning to be distributed.

The extent of the pandemic’s impact on our financial and operational results, which could be material, will depend on the length of time that the pandemic continues and whether we experience further waves of the infection, its effect on our customers’ demand for our advertising products (as well as their ability to pay us for services provided), the pace at which governmental regulations closing businesses and restricting movement imposed in response to the pandemic are relaxed, the success of public vaccination campaigns, the effectiveness of the vaccines against mutating strains of the virus, the effect of existing and potential economic stimulus measures passed into law, as well as uncertainty regarding all of the foregoing.

While we cannot at this time predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has had, and is likely to continue to have a dampening effect on our near-term AMS revenues. In addition, a sustained adverse impact on our non-political advertising from the COVID-19 pandemic could eventually impact our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our revolving credit facility in the future further affecting our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, we may experience an increased risk of undetected malicious cyber-security attacks due to our workforce working remotely. We continue to closely monitor the situation, to assess further possible implications to our business and customers, and to take actions in an effort to mitigate adverse consequences.

The value of our assets or operations may be diminished if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately

Our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently and effectively. We rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, news and advertising content, digital products, order entry, fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, broadcasting disruptions, and loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results to be impacted.

Our efforts to minimize the likelihood and impact of adverse cybersecurity incidents and to protect our technology and confidential information may not be successful and our business could be negatively affected 

Our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently and effectively. We rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, news and advertising content, digital products, order entry, fulfillment and other business processes. As such, we are exposed to various cybersecurity threats, including but not limited to, threats to our information technology infrastructure, and unauthorized attempts to gain access to our confidential information, including third parties which receive our confidential information for business purposes. We take measures to minimize the risk of a cyber-attack including utilization of multi-factor authentication, deployment of firewalls, virtual private networks for mobile connections and conducting regular training of our employees related to protecting sensitive information and recognizing “phishing” attacks. These measures, however, may not be sufficient in preventing or timely detecting breaches or cyber-attacks due to the evolving nature and ever-increasing abilities of cyber-attacks. Depending on the severity of the breach or cyber-attack, such events could result in business interruptions, disclosure of nonpublic information, loss of sales and customers, misstated financial data, liabilities for stolen assets or information, diversion of our management’s attention, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation, and financial consequences, any or all of which could adversely affect our business operations and reputation. In addition, cybersecurity breaches could subject us to civil liability to customers and other third parties as well as fines and penalties imposed by governmental or regulatory authorities which could be substantial. We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may be insufficient to cover all of our losses from breaches of our systems.

As has historically been the case in the broadcast sector, loss of, or changes in, affiliation agreements or retransmission consent agreements could adversely affect operating results for our stations 

Most of our stations are covered by our network affiliation agreements with the major broadcast television networks (ABC, CBS, NBC, and Fox). These television networks produce and distribute programming in exchange for each of our stations’ commitment to air the programming at specified times and for other consideration such as commercial announcement time during the programming. The cost of network affiliation agreements represents a significant portion of our television operating expenses. 

Each of our affiliation agreements has a stated expiration date. With respect to the major broadcast networks, our principal expirations occur in the following years: NBC-early 2024, CBS-2022, Fox-2022, ABC-2023. If renewed, our network affiliation agreements may be renewed on terms that are less favorable to us. The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the affiliate network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and/or which may not be as attractive to our audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. 

20

In recent years, the networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms (e.g., CBS All Access and Peacock NBC), in some cases live or within a short period of the original network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. An increase in the availability of network programming on alternative platforms that either bypass or provide less favorable terms to local stations - such as cable channels, the Internet and other distribution vehicles - may dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our stations.

Our retransmission consent agreements with major cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers (also referred to as multichannel video programming distributors or MVPDs) permit them to retransmit our stations’ signals to their subscribers in exchange for the payment of compensation to us (which we classify as subscription revenues). This source of revenue represented approximately 44% of our 2020 total revenues, and we expect the contribution of subscription revenues to increase in 2021 and to continue to increase in the foreseeable future periods. During 2020, retransmission consent agreements covering approximately 35% of our subscribers were renewed. During 2021, retransmission agreements related to approximately 30% of our subscribers will be up for renewal. On occasion, we may not be able to agree on mutually acceptable terms when negotiating such agreements. When this happens, the MVPD may be required to cease airing our programming (commonly referred to as a “blackout” or “going dark”). When this happens, we will not be compensated by the MVPD during the period of the blackout. Furthermore, if we are unable to renew the agreement on market terms, or at all, it could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We operate our business in a single broadcast segment, which increases our exposure to the changes and highly competitive environment of the broadcast industry 

Broadcast companies operate in a highly competitive environment and compete for audiences, advertising and marketing services revenue and quality programming. Lower audience share, declines in advertising and marketing services spending, and increased programming costs would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing, new or potential competitors, or that competition and consolidation in the media marketplace will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, the FCC and Congress are contemplating several new laws and changes to existing media ownership and other broadcast-related regulations, regarding a wide range of matters (including the number of stations a company may own within a single market or nationwide). Changes to FCC rules may lead to additional opportunities as well as increased uncertainty in the industry. 

Changing regulations may also impair or reduce our leverage in negotiating affiliation or retransmission agreements, adversely affecting our revenues, or result in increased costs, reduced valuations for certain broadcasting properties or other impacts, all of which may adversely impact our future profitability. All of our stations are required to hold broadcasting licenses from the FCC; when granted, these licenses are generally granted for a period of eight years. Under certain circumstances, the FCC is not required to renew any license and could decline to renew future license applications.

Changes in the regulatory environment could increase our costs or limit our opportunities for growth

Our stations are subject to various obligations and restrictions under the Communications Act of 1934 as amended (the “Communications Act”), and FCC regulations. These requirements may be affected by legislation, FCC actions, or court decisions, and any such changes may affect the performance of our business, such as by imposing new obligations or by limiting our television stations’ exclusivity or retransmission consent rights. For instance, although the FCC voted in November 2017 to reduce restrictions on local broadcast ownership, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit vacated and remanded these changes effective as of November 29, 2019; the U.S. Supreme Court granted petitions by the FCC and broadcasters to review the Third Circuit’s decision. Depending on the Supreme Court’s decision, the FCC’s 2017 regulatory changes could be restored, or the applicable media ownership rules could be altered in other ways by Congress or the FCC. Oral arguments in the case were held on January 19, 2021; the Supreme Court is expected to rule on the case by the end of June 2021. If broadcast ownership rules become more restrictive, our opportunities to grow our broadcast business through acquisitions or other strategic transactions could be impaired.

In addition, some of our acquisition activities may be subject to antitrust review by the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (DOJ), and could restrict our ability to pursue or consummate future transactions and could require us to divest certain television stations if an acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market. Review and enforcement policies of the DOJ may be subject to change under the Biden administration. As a result, we cannot assure investors that any future acquisition will be approved, or that a requirement to divest existing stations will not have an adverse effect on the transaction or our business.

21

Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock

There could be significant liability if the spin-off of Cars.com was determined to be a taxable transaction 

In May 2017 we completed our spin-off of Cars.com, which we refer to as the “spin-off”. In connection with the spin-off, we received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the requirements for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code were satisfied. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from TEGNA and the spun-off business regarding the past and future conduct of the company’s business and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not satisfied, TEGNA and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.

Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the spin-off is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the share ownership of TEGNA or the spun-off business after the separation. If the spin-off was determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, TEGNA and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. On October 15, 2021, TEGNA’s 2017 tax year (including the tax-free treatment of the spin-off of the Cars.com business) will no longer be subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service.

A proxy contest with an activist shareholder could cause us to incur significant costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and have an adverse effect on our business

Activist shareholders, like Standard General, may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance shareholder proposals or director nominations or otherwise attempt to affect changes or acquire control over us. On January 21, 2021, Standard General nominated four directors for election in connection with our 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Responding to these actions can be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our Board and management from the management of our operations and the pursuit of our business strategies, particularly if such activist shareholders advocate for actions that are not supported by other shareholders, our board or management. In addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, damage to our reputation and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified directors, personnel and business partners. These actions could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.

Our strategic acquisitions, investments and partnerships could pose various risks, increase our leverage and may significantly impact our ability to expand our overall profitability

Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flow and could strain our human resources. We may be unable to successfully complete acquisitions, implement effective cost controls, achieve expected synergies or increase revenues as a result of an acquisition. Acquisitions may result in us assuming unexpected liabilities and in management diverting its attention from the operation of our business. Acquisitions may result in us having greater exposure to the industry risks of the businesses underlying the acquisition. Strategic investments and partnerships with other companies expose us to the risk that we may be unable to control the operations of our investee or partnership, which could decrease the amount of benefits we realize from a particular relationship. We are exposed to the risk that our partners in strategic investments and infrastructure may encounter financial difficulties which could disrupt investee or partnership activities, or impair assets acquired, which would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity. The failure to obtain regulatory approvals or required consents of broadcast television networks or other third parties may prevent us from completing or realizing the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Furthermore, acquisitions may subject us to new or different regulations which could have an adverse effect on our operations.

Volatility in the U.S. credit markets could significantly impact our ability to obtain new financing to fund our operations and strategic initiatives or to refinance our existing debt at reasonable rates and terms as it matures

As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $3.58 billion in debt and approximately $1.13 billion of undrawn additional borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility that expires in 2024. This debt matures at various times during the years 2024-2029. While our cash flow is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts when due, if our operating results deteriorate significantly, we may not be able to pay amounts when due and a portion of these maturities may need to be refinanced. Access to the capital markets for longer-term financing is generally unpredictable and volatile credit markets could make it harder for us to obtain debt financings.

22

The value of our existing intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating results

Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $5.47 billion as of December 31, 2020, representing approximately 80% of our total assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain events or significant changes in circumstance that indicate all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable in which case a non-cash charge to earnings may be necessary. We may subsequently experience market pressures which could cause future cash flows to decline below our current expectations, or volatile equity markets could negatively impact market factors used in the impairment analysis, including earnings multiples, discount rates, and long-term growth rates. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity, although such charges would not affect our cash flow.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES