PART I

ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Business Overview

We are an innovative media company serving the greater good of our communities. Across platforms, we tell empowering stories, conduct impactful investigations and deliver innovative marketing services. With 64 television stations and two radio stations in 51 U.S. markets, we are the largest owner of top four network affiliates in the top 25 markets among independent station groups, reaching approximately 39% of U.S. television households. We also own leading multicast networks True Crime Network and Quest. Each television station also has a robust digital presence across online, mobile and social platforms, reaching consumers on all devices and platforms they use to consume news content. We have been consistently honored with the industry’s top awards, including Edward R. Murrow, Alfred I. DuPont-Columbia and Emmy Awards. Through TEGNA Marketing Solutions (TMS), our integrated sales and back-end fulfillment operations, we deliver results for advertisers across television, digital and over-the-top (OTT) platforms, including Premion, our OTT advertising network.

Over the past several years, we have transformed our company to become a pure-play broadcasting company, adding more than 40 stations in attractive markets and divesting non-core assets. In 2019, we completed four strategic acquisitions for a total purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion which enhanced our geographic diversity and bolstered our portfolio of Big Four stations while positioning our company to take full advantage of emerging viewing trends. We now operate one of the largest U.S. broadcasting groups, and are a leading local news and media content provider in the markets we serve. As a result of this strategic evolution, we have increased revenue and cash flow, reduced economic cyclicality, and continue to be well-positioned to benefit from additional industry consolidation. 

COVID-19 Pandemic

During fiscal year 2020 and continuing into 2021, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought unprecedented challenges and widespread economic and social change throughout the United States. At the same time, this past year demonstrated the strength and resiliency of our business and core strategy, and illustrated the meaningful role we play in keeping our local communities safe and informed. This year more than ever TEGNA stations’ local news broadcasts have been a trusted and critical source of information for our communities. TEGNA stations reported essential information about the pandemic and its local impact, using experts to explain medical and scientific data to our audiences, in addition to providing the latest information about how to stay safe including local distribution plans for COVID-19 vaccines. TEGNA stations also were a trusted resource in helping viewers deal with the impacts of the pandemic, providing information on relief efforts and how to apply for government programs. 

In response to the pandemic, federal and state governments in the United States instituted a wide variety of mitigating control measures, including mandatory quarantines, closures of non-essential businesses and all other places of social interaction, while implementing “shelter in place” orders and travel restrictions in an effort to slow the spread of the virus. While some of these measures have been lifted or relaxed in certain state and local governments, other jurisdictions have seen increases in new COVID-19 cases resulting in restrictions being reinstated, or new restrictions imposed. These variations in COVID-19 mitigating measures began negatively impacting our advertising and marketing services (AMS) revenue stream in mid-March 2020 as demand for non-political advertising softened. However, overall advertising demand improved during the year for non-political advertising as steps toward re-opening were implemented and as federal government stimulus programs were enacted. In late 2020, vaccines for combating COVID-19 were approved in the United States and began to be administered. However, initial quantities of the vaccines are limited and vaccine distributions are controlled by local authorities. 

The impact of COVID-19 and the extent of its adverse impact on our financial and operating results will be dictated by the length of time that the pandemic continues to affect our advertising customers. This will depend on future pandemic related developments, including the duration of the pandemic, any potential subsequent waves of COVID-19 virus, the effectiveness, distribution and acceptance of COVID-19 vaccines, and related U.S. government actions to prevent and manage the virus spread, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. 

Our Operating Structure

We have one operating and reportable segment which generated revenues of $2.9 billion in 2020. The primary sources of our revenues are: 1) subscription revenues, reflecting fees paid by satellite, cable, OTT (companies that deliver video content to consumers over the Internet) and telecommunications providers to carry our television signals on their systems; 2) advertising & marketing services revenues, which include local and national non-political television advertising, digital marketing services (including Premion), and advertising on stations’ websites and tablet and mobile products; 3) political advertising revenues, which are driven by even-year election cycles at the local and national level (e.g. 2020, 2018) and particularly in the second half of those years; and 4) other services, such as production of programming and advertising material.

The advertising revenues generated by a station’s local news programs make up a significant part of its total advertising revenues. Advertising pricing is influenced by demand for advertising time. This demand is influenced by a variety of factors, 

3

including the size and demographics of the local populations, the concentration of businesses, local economic conditions, and the popularity or ratings of the station’s programming. Almost all national advertising is placed through our centralized internal national sales force, while local advertising time is sold by each station’s own local sales force.

Our portfolio of “Big 4” NBC, CBS, ABC and FOX stations operate under long-term network affiliation agreements. Generally, a network provides programs to its affiliated television stations and the network sells commercial advertising for certain of the available advertising spots within the network programs, while our television stations sell the remaining available commercial advertising spots. Our television stations also produce local programming such as news, sports, weather, and entertainment.

Broadcast affiliates and their network partners continue to have the broadest appeal in terms of household viewership, viewing time and audience reach. The overall reach of events such as the Olympics and NFL Football, along with our extensive local news and non-news programming, continues to surpass the reach in viewership of individual cable channels. Our ratings and reach are driven by the quality of programs we and our network partners produce and by the strong local connections we have to our communities, which gives us a unique position among the numerous program choices viewers have, regardless of platform.

As illustrated in the table below, our business continues to evolve toward growing recurring and highly profitable revenue streams, driven by the increasing concentration of both political and subscription revenue streams. As a result of the growing importance of even-year political advertising on our results, management increasingly looks at revenue trends over two-year periods. High margin-subscription and political revenues account for approximately half of our total two-year revenue, a trend that began in 2019, and are expected to comprise an increasingly larger percentage on a rolling two-year cycle thereafter.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Strategy 

Our highly qualified Board of Directors is actively engaged and regularly reviews, guides and oversees the development and implementation of our long-term strategic plan. Our Board of Directors and management team are committed to executing on the following five-pillar strategy designed to create shareholder value.

1.Continue to be a best-in-class operator; 

2.Aggressive yet disciplined pursuit of accretive M&A opportunities, including adjacent businesses and technologies; 

3.Pursuing growth opportunities through organic innovation, such as Premion, our best in class OTT advertising service; 

4.Maintaining a strong balance sheet; and 

5.Commitment to strong free cash flow generation and optimized capital allocation process. 

1. Continue to be a best-in-class operator:

Grow subscription revenue. Subscription revenue has steadily increased in the last several years, better reflecting the value of the content that our business provides. Pursuant to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules, every three years a local television station must elect to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the station’s signal or (2) require such cable and satellite operators to negotiate retransmission consent agreements to secure carriage. At present, we have retransmission consent agreements with almost all cable operators, telecommunications and satellite providers in our television stations’ markets for carriage of those stations. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we renewed our multi-year distribution agreements with several major cable providers representing approximately 35% of our paid subscribers at leading Big Four affiliate rates. These renewed agreements provide additional transparency and predictability into the expected future growth of our subscription revenues. 

Our scale and strength in local content have contributed to our ability to grow our subscription revenue beyond traditional multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs) into the growing OTT or streaming space. Migrating our content onto OTT platforms allows us to reach an additional demographic of newer viewers that consume content online rather than via traditional television platforms, enabling us to expand our subscription revenues and deliver advertising products to a broader viewing audience.

4

We have OTT distribution deals with major network partners and streaming services such as Hulu, YouTube TV and AT&T TV, permitting them to carry our stations’ content. Because our stations predominantly serve large markets that are pivotal to the success of companies offering platforms in the OTT space, our distribution agreements with these partners and streaming services contain financial terms similar to those in our more traditional distribution agreements with cable and satellite operators.

Affiliation agreements. We are the largest independent owner of NBC affiliated stations and second largest independent owner of CBS affiliated stations (based on TV homes reached as reported by Nielsen, September 26, 2020). During 2020, we successfully executed multi-year renewal of our affiliation agreement with NBC (extended to early 2024). In 2019, we executed multi-year renewals with CBS (extended through 2022), ABC (extended through 2023), and Fox (extended through 2022).

2020 Political cycle. As a result of our 2019 acquisitions (discussed below), we have strategically expanded our portfolio to include additional key political markets which enabled us to benefit from record political advertising in 2020. Our broadcasting assets, paired with Premion, offer political campaigns the ability to reach voters across the country, not just in our TEGNA television markets. Political advertising has proven to be a strong, dependable revenue stream that was less influenced by the negative impacts that the COVID-19 pandemic had on our economy. We believe we are well-positioned for political revenues in even years to come. 

Improve the value we bring to advertisers. We provide our clients with data-driven integrated marketing services, using a holistic approach that puts their advertising dollars to work in the channels that make the most sense for them, regardless of the platform. We continue to expand market share in our marketing services business through our sales transformation efforts, including innovations like our centralized 360-degree marketing services agency, and a well-trained, solutions-oriented salesforce. We are also pursuing new technology initiatives that make television advertising easier to buy and are using data analytics to provide insights on consumer traffic and purchasing decisions to advertisers. 

Cost initiatives. We have implemented several significant cost-reduction initiatives and are in the process of implementing additional such initiatives. These efforts include implementation of shared service support centers for all back-office support functions, completion of company-wide financial systems consolidation in mid-2020, and automation of sales support processes as well as other key traffic monitoring functions. 

In order to mitigate the near-term impact on non-political advertising demand caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented additional cost saving measures in the first and second quarters of 2020 to reduce operating expenses and capital expenditures. These measures included implementing temporary one-week furloughs during the second quarter of 2020 for most personnel, reducing compensation for executives and our board of directors, and reducing non-critical discretionary spending.

2. Aggressive yet disciplined pursuit of accretive M&A opportunities, including adjacent businesses and technologies:

Our strong balance sheet and cash flow generation enables us to opportunistically grow the business through accretive acquisitions. Since 2013, we have acquired more than 40 stations and transformed into a pure-play broadcast company with a robust portfolio. In 2019, we identified and executed on significant M&A opportunities with clear and achievable synergies, closing on four important acquisitions encompassing 15 television stations and two radio stations. We now own 64 television stations in 51 markets with a concentration of Big Four stations in large, demographically growing markets, and an emphasis on important political markets. In addition, in 2019, we completed the acquisition of multicast networks Justice Network (which has since been rebranded as True Crime Network) and Quest from Cooper Media. True Crime Network and Quest are two leading multicast networks that offer unique ad-supported programming. True Crime Network’s content is focused on true-crime genre, while Quest features factual-entertainment programs such as science, history, and adventure-reality series.

While the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic effects curtailed M&A activity in 2020, we continue to identify and evaluate all opportunities, including adjacent businesses and technologies, to add value for our shareholders via accretive acquisitions. In early 2021, we announced the acquisition of Locked On Podcast Network, a leading and innovative podcast network for local sports. Locked On produces daily shows for every team across the four major professional sports leagues, as well as more than 30 college sports programs. Locked On will expand TEGNA’s presence in the quickly growing podcast market, joining digital content studio VAULT Studios (discussed further below) and stations’ podcasting efforts, and build on TEGNA’s overall sports footprint. Locked On publishes more than 600 podcast episodes each week, generating eight million listens a month. Its podcasts were downloaded more than 80 million times in 2020.

3. Pursuing growth opportunities through organic innovation such as Premion, our best in class OTT advertising service:

Continue to innovate in our content offerings to our consumers. Our trusted, local content is the driver of our success across all distribution channels and is a key ingredient that powers our current and future revenues. Our scale has allowed us to invest in comprehensive content and digital innovation initiatives. Our focus on data-driven editorial processes, new storytelling formats, and unique visual presentations across all our platforms are helping us to advance our goal of making our content the consumers’ first choice, regardless of platform.

5

In 2020, we continued significant efforts to embrace change, transform our content and connect with audiences in unique and powerful ways. Our culture encourages and embraces bold thinking and ideas from across the company. We are creating unique, live and original content in news and non-news time periods to meet changing viewer habits. In an on-demand OTT world, live, locally-relevant content is becoming increasingly important, and we are acting on that trend. We have continued to make wholesale transformations of our local news operations. We have invested in true digital-first newsrooms, leveraging analytics to better serve audiences and clients on-air and via mobile devices.

We are recognized for both our journalistic excellence and for our innovation in reinventing local journalism in the digital age. In 2020, TEGNA was named Multiplatform Broadcaster of the Year by Broadcasting+Cable, a leading industry publication, for excellence across television, digital and OTT platforms. TEGNA stations also received 88 Regional Edward R. Murrow Awards for excellence in broadcast journalism, more than any other local broadcast television group. We had 29 TEGNA stations receive Regional Murrow Awards, including eight for overall excellence, the highest honor awarded. Five TEGNA stations won for excellence in innovation, which awards innovations that “enhance the quality of journalism and the audience’s understanding of news.” In addition, TEGNA’s commitment to transform local news in the digital age resulted in 10 awards inspired by TEGNA’s dedicated innovation process, while TEGNA also won 11 awards for excellence in multimedia or social media. Our WFAA station in Dallas, Texas, was honored for “VERIFY Road Trip: Climate Truth,” which took a climate change skeptic on a journey through Texas and Alaska to meet experts and witness first-hand the effects of global warming.

Our most innovative ideas frequently come from our employees who take active part in generating new ideas and pilots through a recurring, structured process. This has resulted in the creation of new digital-first episodic investigations; multiplatform news fact-checking segments like “VERIFY”; unique local news programs; and the launch in 2019 of an in-house digital production and distribution studio, VAULT Studios. VAULT Studios leverages our stations’ robust archives of investigative stories and has quickly gained a reputation as a premier podcast studio for fans of true crime. Several VAULT Studios productions have been among the top 10 true crime podcasts on the Apple Podcasts app in 2020. 

We produce the daily live, multi-platform syndicated news and entertainment program “Daily Blast LIVE” (or DBL) out of KUSA in Denver. Now in its fourth year, “Daily Blast LIVE” is carried in all TEGNA markets and in select non-TEGNA markets, together covering 48% of U.S. markets, up from 43% in the show’s third year. “Daily Blast LIVE” is a true multi-platform play, broadcast across linear TV, digital and social media. The program is live 5 days a week, 50 weeks a year and streams 4.5 hours of trending news each day on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Twitch DBL.com, the DBL app and TEGNA’s stations apps on Roku. 

In July 2020, we announced the rebranding of Justice Network to True Crime Network and the launch of our first streaming service, capitalizing on the rapidly growing over-the-air and OTT television viewing platforms. The True Crime Network streaming app is available on Roku, Amazon Fire TV and Apple TV, via mobile and tablet on iOS and Android devices, Chromecast, and on the web. True Crime Network offers a unique entertainment experience for true crime fans, integrating the 24/7 multicast network with a free, on-demand streaming service and high-quality true crime podcasts from TEGNA’s VAULT Studios. True Crime Network’s on-demand streaming service is dedicated exclusively to true crime content and programming. The service includes free, ad-supported on-demand episodes across mobile and connected television apps. With hundreds of hours of on-demand content from the network’s library, True Crime Network also features original programs developed from TEGNA stations’ vast library of true crime and investigative content.

Increase engagement across all platforms. Through websites, mobile and OTT apps we extend our local brands reaching almost 70 million unique visitors per month. As the consumption of content on digital platforms increases, we have continued to make investments in developing new ways of connecting with local audiences and enhancing our digital capabilities. In 2020, this included initiatives focused on expanding our digital footprint across TEGNA-owned and third-party digital and OTT platforms; the continued development of new consumer products that enhance the viewer experience or generate revenue, and greater integration of user-generated content to drive audience engagement and add a hyperlocal layer to our news coverage.

•Expanded digital footprint: The COVID-19 pandemic generated increased demand for fact-checking to combat the proliferation of misinformation. In response, stations’ VERIFY fact-checking reporting was expanded across all platforms, and in August TEGNA launched VERIFY on Snapchat’s Discover platform, reaching a new and younger audience among Snapchat’s approximately 90 million daily active users in North America. VERIFY episodes have received a robust following since launching on Snapchat, with approximately 169,000 subscribers and 8.3 million unique viewers (through February 2021). More than 50% of VERIFY’s audience on Snapchat is under the age of 25, broadening our reach with younger news consumers.

•Developing and enhancing consumer products: In 2020, we completed an update of our stations’ OTT streaming apps on Roku, enhancing the experience for viewers. In December, we began rolling out OTT streaming apps for our stations on Amazon Fire TV. With the rollout on Amazon Fire TV, TEGNA stations’ local news and other programming is available to consumers on the two dominant OTT streaming media players, which comprise 70% of the U.S. market. TEGNA’s OTT station apps offer streaming viewers free, ad-supported access to live news and the most recent news broadcasts, breaking news and weather forecasts, in addition to VERIFY fact-checking reports and our live entertainment program, Daily Blast LIVE. 

6

•User-generated content: During the pandemic, TEGNA scaled its user-generated content platform to allow viewers to simultaneously text questions, photos and video directly to their local TEGNA station, allowing our news teams to communicate with viewers, solicit feedback, keeping them better informed across all platforms and devices. TEGNA also launched Near Me, a hyperlocal mobile app feature that allows audience members to share photos and videos and see the latest news in their communities from both local stations and neighbors. This proved especially useful in Minneapolis during the George Floyd protests, as users could see what was happening around them during the protests and upload their own content. It has also been a central part of TEGNA station’s coverage of hurricanes, wildfires and other major news events taking place in our markets. These innovations are helping us forge closer relationships with our audience and better serve them with relevant information that’s happening in their neighborhoods TEGNA stations now receive more than 100,000 text messages per month from viewers.

In late 2016, we launched Premion, the industry’s first local advertising network for over-the-top streaming and connected TV platforms. Premion is a one-stop-shop for local, regional and national brands to place advertising in premium, brand safe long-form programs across streaming devices, smart TVs and web browsers. With directly-sourced inventory from 125+ branded networks, high quality inventory, advanced targeting and performance insights, Premion is a highly desirable and effective way for advertisers to reach a highly-engaged streaming audience of so-called cord cutters, cord nevers and cord stackers in a targeted manner, and has enabled us to expand our revenue base and to reach new markets. Our large, local salesforce is leveraging relationships with local and regional advertisers to sell Premion inventory to deliver scale and measurable outcomes at the local level. Premion continues to deliver strong revenue growth, up more than 40% in 2020 compared to 2019, with revenue of more than $145 million in 2020. We expect Premion to have similar percentage growth in 2021. 

On March 2, 2020, we sold a minority ownership interest in Premion for $14.0 million to an affiliate of Gray Television (Gray). In connection with that transaction, Premion and Gray entered into a commercial arrangement under which Gray resells Premion services across all of Gray’s 93 television markets. Our TEGNA stations and Gray each have the right to independently sell Premion’s inventory in markets where we both operate a local television station. With this additional sales channel, our combined TEGNA, Gray and Premion direct sales force reaches OTT viewers in more than 70% of the U.S. households. 

Invest in new growth initiatives. We are further diversifying our revenue base by investing in new business models that leverage our strong assets and scale.

•Intelligent Ad Automation. Premion has been our first investment in intelligent ad automation. Premion has partnered with MadHive (one of our strategic equity investments) to create a technology platform to aggregate inventory from OTT providers and then resell the inventory to local and regional advertisers leveraging our salesforce.

In addition to Premion, we are a member of the Television Interfaces Practices consortium of broadcasters driving standardization and interconnectivity of the automation of national spot advertising. Our centralized pricing resources are enabling stations to more effectively price their advertising inventory to maximize share. New attribution technologies are enabling our advertisers to better understand the impact their advertising has on consumer traffic and purchasing. The creation in 2019 of a new, integrated in-house national salesforce has evolved the way we serve our national customers and enables us to expand those relationships.

•Dynamic Ad Insertion. During 2020, we made significant investments to build out our Dynamic Ad Insertion capabilities in our top 25 TV markets. Dynamic Ad Insertion enables our stations to better monetize linear television content that is distributed across various digital platforms, such as NewsOn, Roku, and other OTT applications. It provides us with data driven targeted advertising that is incremental to the traditional linear advertising. We plan to continue to expand our capabilities to the rest of our TEGNA markets in 2021. 

•Performance Marketing. We are a leading provider of digital marketing services for advertisers. In 2020, we continued our investments in attribution across linear television and OTT, renewing and expanding our agreement with Alphonso to enable local advertisers to better understand the value and effectiveness of their local TV and OTT ad campaigns. The new multi-year partnership includes all of Premion and enables TEGNA’s local ad sellers to provide clients with granular measurement and attribution for linear TV and OTT campaigns.

•NextGen TV (ATSC 3.0). In 2017, the FCC began the process of issuing rules that would permit television stations to broadcast in the new ATSC 3.0 broadcast transmissions standard, which will allow broadcasters to enhance their existing transmission services with a new standardized system that will allow us to compete directly with Internet protocols. This new standard will allow us to support higher 4K high dynamic range resolution, higher frame rate, mobile, second screen experiences, 3D audio, virtual reality, advanced advertising and other exciting enhancements to the viewing experience. The technology enables encryption and content protection that will allow broadcasters for the first time to protect their signal and to employ paywalls on certain content streams, subject to the requirement to continue broadcasting at least one stream of free over-the-air video programming. During 2018 and 2019, we worked with other broadcasters as part of the Pearl consortium’s ongoing pilot testing of the new standard in Phoenix, Arizona. In 2020, several large TEGNA markets made the transition to NextGen TV, including Portland, OR, Tampa, FL, Seattle, WA and Denver, CO, and we expect further markets to transition in 2021. 

7

4. Maintaining a strong balance sheet:

Our balance sheet combined with our strong, accelerating and recurring cash flows provide us the ability to pursue the path that offers the most attractive return on capital. We have a broad set of capital deployment opportunities, including retiring debt to create additional future flexibility; investing in original, relevant and engaging content; investing in growth businesses like Premion; and pursuing value accretive acquisition-related growth. 

In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had far-reaching material adverse impacts on many aspects of our operations, directly and indirectly, including our employees, consumer behavior, distribution of our content, our vendors, and the overall market. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly with regard to the broader advertising industry, remains uncertain and is evolving. We have taken a number of precautionary measures to mitigate the financial impact of the pandemic, and minimize the resultant risks to our company, employees, our shareholders, customers, and the communities in which we serve. Such measures included refinancing $538 million of debt with original maturities in either 2021 or 2024 which were extended out to 2026. In addition, we amended our revolving credit facility on June 11, 2020 to extend the initial step-down of the maximum permitted total leverage ratio by 15 months. Under the amendment our maximum leverage ratio covenant will remain at 5.50x until the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2022.

We will continue to review potential opportunities in a disciplined manner, both strategically and financially. In the near-term, our priorities continue to be maintaining a strong balance sheet, enabling organic growth, acquiring attractively priced strategic assets and returning capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.

5. Commitment to free cash flow generation and a balanced capital allocation process:

Our operations have historically generated strong cash flow which, along with availability under our existing $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, have been sufficient to fund our capital expenditures, interest expense, dividends, investments in new products and initiatives, as well as to fund acquisitions, including the 2019 acquisitions discussed above. 

Our ability to generate strong operating cash flow from operations, including $805.1 million in 2020, has enabled us to continue to de-lever following the 2019 acquisitions while continuing to pay a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share. Our net leverage ratio as of December 31, 2020 is 3.95x of Adjusted EBITDA (see definition of this non-GAAP financial metric in Item 7), down from 4.92x as of the December 31, 2019 measurement. 

In December 2020, our Board of Directors authorized the renewal of our share repurchase program for up to $300.0 million of our common stock over the next three years. The program was previously suspended on March 20, 2019 simultaneously with the announcement of our acquisition of the Nexstar-Tribune divestiture stations to prioritize use of cash flow for debt repayment associated with those acquisitions. The renewal of the share repurchase program reflects the reduction of leverage ratio to pre-acquisition levels, as well as demonstrates the Board’s and management’s confidence in the business and continued focus on making prudent, disciplined decisions intended to drive near and long-term shareholder value. Our capital allocation decisions focus on optimizing investments in organic and inorganic growth opportunities, paying down debt, issuing dividends, and repurchasing shares. 

In addition, we have effectively deployed capital through divestitures, which help fund our growth. Our Board and management team continually assess the financial productivity of assets within our portfolio in the context of our strategy and operations. As a result, we have realized proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of non-core assets since 2017. These proceeds, together with cash distributions received from investments, have helped to provide a funding source for both strategic acquisitions and investments in organic growth drivers such as Premion. 

Our Competition 

The proliferation of high-speed broadband to the home and phone has significantly increased competition in the video marketplace in the last decade. Today, mobile broadband covers the U.S., and a vast majority of Americans own devices that can access mobile broadband with numbers continuing to grow. Similarly, fixed, wired broadband to the home also covers a majority of the United States and is also growing.

With the rise of 5G and unlimited data plans, every screen or mobile phone is now capable of displaying video programming of the sort previously reserved to television. These video consumption patterns are no longer restricted to younger consumers. With the onset of ubiquitous high-speed Internet service has come an explosion of platforms and applications with video advertising capabilities that consumers have adopted. These include large players like YouTube and Facebook, and a long tail of mobile applications and services that consumers value with more being added every week. 

Our company strives to capture as large a viewing audience as possible for each of our broadcast stations, as the number of viewers who watch our stations in each Designated Market Area (DMA) has a direct impact on our ability to maximize both of our major revenue streams: advertising marketing services revenue and subscription revenue. 

8

As noted above, we compete for audience share as part of an increasingly varied and competitive media landscape. We compete for advertising revenue with other platforms for television advertising media, including other broadcast stations and cable providers. We also compete against both traditional and new forms of media that offer paid advertising, including radio, newspapers, magazines, direct mail, online video, and social media. Major competitors in this space include cable providers Comcast and Charter, as well as Internet platforms Google, Facebook, and YouTube. Advertisements on these digital platforms look like traditional television ads and compete with over-the-air broadcast ads in the local ad market. 

With respect to subscription revenue, we compete to capture a share of the total amount MVPDs are willing to pay for the rights to distribute linear TV content to their subscribers. The larger our audience share, the more appealing our programming is to the MVPDs and the more they will be willing to pay for the right to distribute it. We compete for this revenue against other broadcast stations and cable networks.

The advertising industry is dynamic and rapidly evolving. Through their websites, our stations compete in the local electronic media space, which includes the Internet or Internet-enabled devices, handheld wireless devices such as mobile phones and tablets, social media platforms, digital spectrum opportunities and OTT video services. In this space, we compete for audience and advertising revenue against other local media companies, Internet advertising giants such as Google and Facebook, as well as the fragmented landscape of digital ad agencies. The technology that enables consumers to receive news and information continues to evolve as does our digital strategy.

Our Regulatory Environment 

Our television and radio stations are operated under the authority of the FCC, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (Communications Act), and the rules and policies of the FCC (FCC regulations). As a result, our stations are subject to a variety of obligations, such as restrictions on the broadcast of material deemed “indecent” or “profane,” requirements to provide or pass through closed captioning for most programming, rules requiring the public disclosure of certain information about our stations’ operations, and the obligation to offer programming responsive to the needs and interests of our stations’ communities. The FCC may alter or add to these requirements, and any such changes may affect the performance of our business. Certain significant elements of the FCC’s current regulatory framework for broadcast television are described in further detail below.

Licensing. Television and radio broadcast licenses generally are granted for eight-year periods. They are renewable upon application to the FCC and usually are renewed except in rare cases in which a petition to deny, a complaint or an adverse finding as to the licensee’s qualifications results in loss of the license. We believe that our stations operate in substantial compliance with the Communications Act and FCC regulations.

Local Broadcast Ownership Restrictions. FCC regulations limit the concentration of broadcasting control and regulate network and local programming practices. The FCC is required by statute to review these rules and regulations every four years. In November 2017, the FCC adopted an order altering its regulations governing media ownership, generally making these regulations less restrictive. For example, the order eliminated the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which generally prohibited an entity from holding an ownership interest in a daily print newspaper and a full-power broadcast station within the same market, and the television/radio cross-ownership rule, which imposed a number of limits on the ability to own television and radio stations in the same market. The order also made common ownership of two television stations in the same market permissible in more markets so long as at least one of the commonly owned stations is not among the top four rated stations in the market at the time of acquisition, and provided for case-by-case consideration of transactions that would result in new or continued common ownership of two top four rated stations in a market. The FCC’s November 2017 ownership order also eliminated a rule making certain television joint advertising sales agreements (JSAs) attributable in calculating compliance with the ownership limits. TEGNA is not currently party to any JSAs.

Various parties, including cable operators and other advocates for more stringent broadcast ownership restrictions, opposed the changes adopted in the FCC’s November 2017 order and challenged the order in court. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit vacated and remanded the FCC’s November 2017 order effective as of November 29, 2019, thus reinstating as of that date the FCC’s broadcast ownership rules in effect immediately prior to the November 2017 order. The U.S. Supreme Court granted petitions by the FCC and broadcasters to review the Third Circuit’s decision. Oral arguments in the case were held on January 19, 2021; the Supreme Court is expected to rule on the case by the end of June 2021. 

The FCC requires the disclosure of shared services agreements (SSAs) in stations’ online public inspection files, though these agreements generally are not deemed to be attributable ownership interests. The FCC defines SSAs broadly to include a wide range of agreements between separately owned stations, including news sharing agreements and other agreements involving “station-related services.” We are party to an SSA under which our television station in Toledo, WTOL, provides certain services (not including advertising sales) to another Toledo television station owned by a third party. We are party to several other agreements involving the limited sharing of certain equipment and resources; some of these agreements may qualify as SSAs subject to disclosure. 

National Broadcast Ownership Restrictions. The Communications Act includes a national ownership cap for broadcast television stations that prohibits any one person or entity from having, in the aggregate, market reach of more than 39% of all U.S. television households. FCC regulations permit stations to discount the market reach of stations that broadcast on UHF 

9

channels by 50% (the UHF discount). In December 2017, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comments on whether it can or should modify or eliminate the national ownership cap and/or the UHF discount. Our 64 television stations reach approximately 32.2% of U.S. television households when the UHF discount is applied and approximately 39.3% without the UHF discount. 

Retransmission Consent. As permitted by the Communications Act and FCC rules, we require cable and satellite operators to negotiate retransmission consent agreements to retransmit our television stations’ signals. Under the applicable statutory provisions and FCC rules, such negotiations must be conducted in “good faith.” FCC rules also provide stations with certain protections against cable and satellite operators importing duplicating network or syndicated programming broadcast by distant stations. Pay-TV interests and other parties continue to advocate for the FCC to alter or eliminate various aspects of the rules governing retransmission consent negotiations and stations’ exclusivity rights. In addition, some pay-TV operators recently have invested in or otherwise coordinated with an online service called Locast, which asserts that it may lawfully retransmit broadcast television signals over the Internet within the applicable stations’ Nielsen DMAs - without the originating stations’ consent - under a federal Copyright Act provision that permits nonprofit organizations to retransmit broadcast television signals under certain limited circumstances. A lawsuit filed on July 31, 2019 by the Big Four television networks, among others, alleges that Locast’s service does not qualify for the claimed exemption and therefore constitutes copyright infringement. That lawsuit is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. If changes to the retransmission consent and/or exclusivity rules were adopted, and/or if services such as Locast were determined to be lawful, such developments could give cable and satellite operators leverage against broadcasters in retransmission consent negotiations, which could possibly adversely impact our revenue from retransmission and advertising.

Post-Incentive Auction Repacking. In April 2017, the FCC announced the completion of a voluntary incentive auction to reallocate certain spectrum then occupied by television broadcast stations to mobile wireless broadband services, along with a related “repacking” of the television spectrum for remaining television stations. None of our stations relinquished any spectrum rights as a result of the auction. Stations in eighteen of our markets (including one station we acquired post-repack in 2020) were repacked to new channels. All of our repacked stations have completed their transitions to their new channels.

The legislation authorizing the incentive auction and repacking established a $1.75 billion fund for reimbursement of costs incurred by stations required to change channels in the repacking. Subsequent legislation enacted on March 23, 2018, appropriated an additional $1 billion for the repacking fund, of which up to $750 million may be made available to repacked full power and Class A television stations and multichannel video programming distributors. Other funds are earmarked to assist affected low power television stations, television translator stations, and FM radio stations, as well for consumer education efforts. On October 7, 2020, the FCC announced that all final invoices and supporting documentation for reimbursement requests will be due no later than (1) October 8, 2021, for full power and Class A TV stations that transitioned in Phase 5 or earlier; (2) March 22, 2022, for full power and Class A TV stations that transitioned in Phase 6 or later; and (3) September 5, 2022, for all other entities entitled to seek repacking-related reimbursements (including low power television stations and television translator stations). By law, the repacking reimbursement program will end July 3, 2023, at which point any remaining unobligated funds will be returned to the U.S. Treasury.

A majority of our capital expenditures in connection with the repack occurred in 2018 and 2019. To date, we have incurred approximately $42.0 million in capital expenditures for the spectrum repack project. We have received FCC reimbursements of approximately $37.6 million through December 31, 2020. We expect to receive reimbursements for the remaining $4.4 million of our spend upon completion of the FCC’s reimbursement review process. 

NextGen TV (ATSC 3.0). In November 2017, the FCC adopted an order authorizing broadcast television stations to voluntarily transition to a new technical standard, called Next Generation TV or ATSC 3.0. The new standard makes possible a variety of benefits for both broadcasters and viewers, including better sound and picture quality, hyper-localized programming including news and weather, enhanced emergency alerts, improved mobile reception, the use of targeted advertising, and more efficient use of spectrum, potentially allowing for more multicast streams to be aired on the same 6 megahertz channel. However, ATSC 3.0 is not backwards compatible with existing television equipment. To ensure continued service to all viewers, the FCC’s order authorizing ATSC 3.0 operations requires full-power television stations that transition to the new standard to continue broadcasting a signal in the existing DTV standard (known as ATSC 1.0) until the FCC phases out the requirement in a future order. The content of this simulcast signal must be substantially similar to the programming aired on the ATSC 3.0 channel for a period of at least five years. Transitioning a station to ATSC 3.0 is voluntary under current FCC rules and may require significant expenditures. As of December 31, 2020, we are broadcasting the primary channels of KGW (Portland, OR), WTSP (Tampa, FL), KUSA (Denver, CO), KING (Seattle, WA) and KONG (Everett, WA) in both ATSC 1.0 and ATSC 3.0 formats. In each case, in accordance with FCC rules, we have entered into channel sharing agreements with other local broadcasters in the market to facilitate this transition by hosting the applicable primary channel in either ATSC 1.0 or 3.0 format. We expect to continue rolling out the new standard in coordination with other broadcasters, taking into account relevant market dynamics and our overall capital planning. To the extent we roll ATSC 3.0 service out to our stations, there can be no guarantee that such service would earn sufficient additional revenues to offset the related expenditures.

10

Our Environmental Regulatory Matters

We are subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health. U.S. federal environmental legislation that pertains to us include the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (also known as Superfund). We are also regulated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA and other federal agencies have the authority to write regulations that have an effect on our operations.

In addition to these federal regulations, various states have authority under the federal statutes mentioned above. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to federal requirements. State and federal authorities may seek fines and penalties for violating these laws and regulations. We believe that we have complied with such proceedings and orders at our stations without any materially adverse effect on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statements of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Our General Company Information

Our company was founded by Frank E. Gannett and associates in 1906 and was incorporated in 1923. We listed shares publicly for the first time in 1967 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1972. Our headquarters is located at 8350 Broad Street, Suite 2000, Tysons, VA, 22102. Our telephone number is (703) 873-6600 and our website home page is www.tegna.com. We make our website content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K).

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements for our annual stockholders’ meetings and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our investor website, under “Investor Relations” at www.tegna.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, copies of our annual reports will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including TEGNA Inc.

Our Human Capital

Our people play an important role in our success in today’s rapidly evolving media landscape. Our key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop the highest caliber talent in our industry. Our human resources programs are designed to support these objectives by offering competitive pay, industry-leading benefits and development and growth opportunities. We strive to foster diversity, inclusion and innovation in our culture through our human resources, diversity and journalism programs and policies. 

In order to better inform our human resources strategies and help drive positive change from within, for the last two years we’ve conducted annual comprehensive, anonymous companywide employee engagement surveys to better understand our employees’ perspectives about working at TEGNA. Our 2020 employee survey covered a wide range of topics, including compensation and benefits, career growth and development, opinions of company leadership, TEGNA’s performance on diversity and inclusion, and our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Feedback from these surveys provides our management team with valuable information about our workplace culture. Results are reviewed with our Board and used to develop and refine aspects of our overall human capital management strategy, including our diversity and inclusion initiatives and employee benefits plans. 

Workforce Demographics - As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 6,430 full-time and part-time people (including 118 corporate headquarters employees), all of whom were located in the United States. Our workforce is 47% female and 25% people of color. In 2020, 54% of new hires were women and women earned 58% of promotions. In addition, 37% of new hires were people of color and 31% of promotions were earned by people of color. In key news leadership positions, four of eleven news director positions filled since the beginning of 2020 are diverse hires or promotions. Our Board of Directors is comprised of 42% women and 17% people of color. 

Gender Representation of U.S. Employees (%) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

Racial/Ethnic Group Representation of U.S. Employees (%) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – We have always been proud of our diverse and inclusive culture. We believe that diverse voices and perspectives lead to great ideas and better collaboration and make us a stronger company. The events of 2020 have made clear that we must do more to ensure that our company is truly representative of the diverse communities we serve. In 2020, we undertook several initiatives to drive meaningful and sustainable progress toward becoming a more inclusive and racially diverse company.

•Launched the TEGNA Diversity & Inclusion Working Group: In June, we announced the creation of a Diversity & Inclusion Working Group consisting of 19 employees. The group developed a charter which includes three priorities: increase TEGNA’s racial diversity in key leadership and influential positions across the company; ensure diverse perspectives are respectfully valued, sought after, and embraced across our company; and identify and combat inherent unconscious bias across our company through education, training programs, and enhanced policies and practices. 

•Appointed a Chief Diversity Officer: In September, we announced the appointment of Grady Tripp as the company’s Chief Diversity Officer. This role was created to drive focus and intentional actions to ensure our long-standing inclusive values resonate in all areas of our business. This newly created position reports to our president and CEO Dave Lougee and is responsible for reviewing and enhancing policies and practices that drive our inclusion and diversity values, developing companywide training programs to enhance awareness and accountability in diversity issues, facilitating the company’s racial diversity and inclusion employee working group and providing thought leadership on employee and organizational issues to help drive better outcomes. During 2020, we have:

◦Conducted 33 local town hall meetings on race, diversity and inclusion with our stations and business groups to hear directly from employees about their life experiences and perspectives, and about working at TEGNA; 

◦Created additional local Diversity & Inclusion councils at stations where employees can share their ideas about inclusion and diversity opportunities, and advise managers about cultural dynamics at stations and in the community;

◦Developed a framework for diversity and inclusion issue resolution; 

◦Conducted a thorough analysis of annual employee survey results by gender and ethnicity to support the creation of action plans at stations; and 

◦Began enhancing our content review practices and developing an 2021 Inclusive Journalism program for news leaders and journalists to better recognize and combat implicit or unconscious bias and ensure our stations’ content represents the communities we serve.

•We have developed and adopted Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goals for 2025 that include increasing Black, Indigenous and People of Color representation in our content teams, news leadership and management roles. 

Investing in Our People – In 2020, we focused our efforts on ensuring we have a consistent and formal mechanism to identify, track and develop our internal talent. This includes understanding our current capabilities, our future capabilities and what is required to address our capability gaps. We maintain a robust annual performance management process across the organization. Together with their managers, employees identify annual goals and, at the end of the year, provide their own self assessments as to goal achievement and job performance. The results of each annual assessment are reviewed with employees in one-on-one sessions with their managers. 

We also have several programs to recognize and develop talent, including Leadership Development, Executive Leadership, Producer-in-Residence and Mentoring programs. In 2020, we began accelerating planning to ensure sustainable recruitment, retention and promotion of diverse talent, including strategies for investing further in equity in development opportunities and increasing diversity in key leadership roles at our stations and throughout TEGNA. A core part of our executive officers’ people goals include achievement of diversity initiatives and the development of diverse future leaders of our company. 

In 2019, we hired a director of talent development and in 2020 merged the talent development and talent acquisition functions together as part of a broader effort to build an integrated talent organization. These changes are designed to ensure our talent strategy is aligned with our business strategy, and that our talent systems, programs, and processes are integrated more effectively to deliver results. We have implemented a more robust approach for understanding and evaluating our current talent capabilities that allows us to better identify, develop, and select high-potential talent for opportunities in a more consistent way. 

12

We have also implemented key performance indicators to help hold our leaders accountable for growing and developing our talent to ensure we have the pipeline and capabilities to meet current and future business needs.

Our early-career producer program, Producer-in-Residence, is designed to help build a steady pipeline of outstanding producer talent to increase, diversify, and engage our audience. We also offer formal leadership development programs for high-potential talent to prepare them for success in future leadership and executive-level roles. In addition, we have launched a new learning series to help accelerate the development of diverse, high-potential talent to ensure they are prepared for future roles as news directors and digital directors. And on a regular basis, we provide functional-based development opportunities to continue to address real-time development needs in areas such as news, marketing, digital and research.

Championing LGBTQ Equality - For the fourth consecutive year, TEGNA was named a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality by the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index. The 2020 Corporate Equality Index evaluated LGBTQ-related policies and practices including non-discrimination workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, transgender-inclusive health care benefits, competency programs, and public engagement with the LGBTQ community. We received the highest marks in all categories, resulting in a perfect score of 100.

Employee Well-Being – Maintaining the health and well-being of our employees and their families is a top priority for our company. Based on the feedback gained from our employee surveys, we continue to implement changes to company-offered benefits to improve affordability and increase choice. In addition to comprehensive health and wellness coverage, we have expanded our benefits offerings so employees have the care and coverage they need. The following additional benefits will be available to employees in 2021: 

•Improved Fertility Coverage: We have added a new fertility benefit to support employees who are trying to expand their families. Our provider, Progyny, provides access to the largest network of premier fertility specialists, as well as support and guidance for adoption and surrogacy.

•Expanded Parental Leave: We updated our parental leave policy so all new parents will receive at least six weeks paid parental leave with mothers giving birth receiving a minimum of 12 weeks paid leave. 

•Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) Therapy: Often used as a therapy for individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders, ABA therapy is now covered under our medical plans.

•HIV PrEP Rx: HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) prescription medications are covered in full. 

•Company Holidays: Juneteenth has been added as a paid company holiday. Additionally, the day after Thanksgiving has been changed to a Floating Holiday that employees may use at their discretion to observe a cultural or other holiday that is personally significant to them. 

Employee Support During COVID-19 – We prioritized the health and safety of our employees during COVID-19 by moving employees to remote work, implementing safety and other guidelines for news production employees and modifying television station buildings and other office locations following the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s workplace guidelines. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we invested in or made available additional health, mental health and wellness resources for employees and their families, including: 

•Care@Work: With a majority of employees working from home, we are covering the cost of membership to Care@Work from Care.com to help manage family care needs while balancing time at work. We partnered with Care.com to give employees premium, unlimited access to find local caregivers. 

•Webinars on managing mental health, isolation, stress and anxiety during COVID-19 were developed and offered to employees live and on-demand.

•Developed and delivered sessions for managers on how to foster high-performing teams in a virtual environment.

•Expanded medical and mental health resources through our healthcare provider, BlueCross BlueShield of Texas, with telemedicine so employees can schedule video or phone consultations with their medical and mental health providers.

•Teladoc’s telemedicine program is available to all employees and family members for sick visits and for behavioral health care sessions. All employees are eligible for nine Teladoc virtual visits even if they are not enrolled in our medical plans.

•TEGNA’s Employee Assistance Program offers support to employees and their families through 24-hour, 7-days per week confidential access to professional support to help manage stress, anxiety, grief, financial concerns, and much more.

Compensation and Benefits Programs – Our compensation and benefits are structured to attract the most talented people and incentivize performance based on the short and long-term strategic goals of our company. Our compensation packages include competitive base salaries, which include options for medical, dental and vision insurance, company holidays and paid time off, and parental leave. We encourage employees to invest for their future by offering a 401(k) plan that includes a company match up to four percent of salary and is fully vested from the day employees begin participating. 

13

Labor Union Representation - Approximately 10% of our employees are represented by labor unions. They are represented by 27 local bargaining units, most of which are affiliated with one of four international unions under collective bargaining agreements. These agreements conform generally with the pattern of labor agreements in the broadcasting industry. We do not engage in industry-wide or company-wide bargaining.

Information About our Executive Officers - Our executive officers as of March 1, 2021 are listed below, with their ages on that date, positions and offices currently held, and principal occupation and business experience during at least the last five years. All officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 

David T. Lougee - President and Chief Executive Officer (June 2017-present); TEGNA director (2017-present). Formerly: President, TEGNA Media (July 2007-June 2017). Age 62.

Lynn Beall (Trelstad) - Executive Vice President and COO of Media Operations (June 2017-present). Formerly: Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, TEGNA Media. Age 60.

Victoria D. Harker - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (June 2015-present). Age 56.

Akin S. Harrison - Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (January 2019 - present). Formerly: Senior Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary (June 2017 - December 2018), Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary (July 2015 - June 2017). Age 48.

Our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 

Our purpose to serve the greater good of our communities is our guiding light, and our values of inclusion, integrity, innovation, impact and results drive our stations and employees to be a force for positive change in the communities where we live and work. In 2020, our commitment to sustainability remained unwavering as we rose to meet the challenges of a global pandemic while taking action to ensure greater diversity and equity within our company. Our social, human, environmental and governance practices help to strengthen our business while protecting and enhancing our long-term value to our communities, our employees, and our shareholders. Our corporate social responsibility efforts are guided and overseen by our Board’s Public Policy and Regulation Committee, which monitors, in coordination with the Board and other Board committees regarding matters within their purview, TEGNA’s policies and programs relating to corporate social responsibility, sustainability, and Environmental, Social and Governance related matters.

In 2020, we adopted the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) industry standards for Media & Entertainment companies. The SASB has established standards on sustainability matters that facilitate communication by companies to investors on decision-useful information. Our report on the SASB’s Media & Entertainment standards is included in our most recent Social Responsibility Highlights Report, which can be found at www.tegna.com/corporate-social-responsibility. 

Environmental Commitment - We are committed to protecting and preserving our environment and minimizing our carbon footprint by operating our business in a sustainable manner as a responsible corporate citizen. Before the pandemic, we committed to reducing unnecessary business travel by utilizing video conferencing technology across the company and will continue with that strategy. We continue to implement thoughtful energy efficiency strategies, including upgrading stations’ studio lighting to LED; replacing non-efficient HVAC systems, and replacing roofs with energy efficient alternatives. To date, we have updated main studio lighting to LED at 33 of our 64 stations.

Recognizing that climate change is an ongoing risk to U.S. commerce, we are taking steps to identify environmental goals and timeframes for drawing down emissions and fortifying our operations to be resilient in the face of future climate impacts. Specifically, in 2021, we will be conducting a Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures gap analysis in order to develop goals and set action plans for Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. As a part of this process, we will incorporate science-based emissions reduction targets into our goal setting that align with international consensus on limiting global temperature increases.

In order to operate in an environmentally friendly way, our environmental policies include practices for the recycling and responsible disposal of technology products and equipment such as batteries, and reducing the waste we generate at corporate offices and in production processes. We regard environmental responsiveness and resource conservation as an integral part of business management, and support finding sound solutions to such environmental problems as may arise. Each facility is expected to manage its activities in a manner that will achieve our environmental goals. Each employee is expected to work toward these goals and is encouraged to advise their supervisor promptly of any situation that may be in conflict with our environmental policy.

When we seek to upgrade office locations, our preference is toward LEED-certified buildings that are designed for energy efficiency and water conservation, like our studio and office facilities at KING in Seattle, KHOU in Houston, Premion in New York and our corporate headquarters in Tysons, Virginia. We recently invested in consolidating WBNS TV’s offices in Columbus, Ohio, to include our WBNS Radio station, which was located in a separate building. Moving forward, we will build on the lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic and continue to review our real estate portfolio to optimize and consolidate where possible to drive efficiencies and further reduce our carbon footprint.

14

The TEGNA Foundation, the charitable foundation sponsored by TEGNA Inc., supports nonprofit activities in communities where we do business and contributes to a variety of charitable causes through its Community Grant Program. Community Grants are identified locally by our stations and include support for community sustainability efforts. In our commitment to serve the greater good, our stations regularly report on environmental, climate and sustainability issues that impact our communities.

Social Impact - Exposing corruption and wrongdoing, holding elected officials and those in power accountable, giving a voice to the voiceless and telling empowering stories that impact our lives is at the heart of our purpose to serve the greater good. During a year when attacks on journalists, journalism and the First Amendment became all too common, our stations and news teams continually strove to be the most trusted sources of news in our communities and to make an impact by being agents of change in the markets we serve. Our local journalists are empowered to seek out the stories that matter most to their audience and pursue investigations that expose wrongdoing while continuing to maintain the highest ethical standards. In 2020, TEGNA won more major journalism awards than any other local broadcaster as a result of our innovative approach to content, impactful investigations and commitment to the communities we serve.

In 2020, our stations helped raise more than $100 million in support of diverse local causes that address specific needs in communities. Through the TEGNA Foundation, we work to improve lives in the communities we serve by contributing to a variety of local charitable causes through Community Grants. Through its other programs, the TEGNA Foundation invests in the future of the media industry through Media Grants, supports employee giving and volunteerism, and contributes to a variety of charitable causes. The TEGNA Foundation’s local Community Grants program is the main vehicle for distributing charitable donations within our communities. Each year, our stations identify pressing needs in their communities and partner with local nonprofit organizations to help address these issues. In 2020, the TEGNA Foundation in partnership with local stations made 260 Community Grants totaling $1.85 million. Grants are distributed within the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal framework, with the majority of 2020 grants supporting four major categories: Good Health and Well-Being, Quality Education, Zero Hunger, and No Poverty. Our stations amplify the impact of charitable donations through on-air and digital awareness campaigns to raise the profile of important issues and causes, and through employee volunteerism. 

During the COVID-19 pandemic, our stations have continued to partner with local nonprofit organizations to address urgent needs. Through virtual telethons, benefit concerts, fundraising drives and awareness campaigns, our stations have helped raise more than $66 million for local relief efforts, from supporting frontline healthcare workers to helping ensure families impacted by COVID-19 do not go hungry. In 2020, 36% of TEGNA Foundation Community Grants went directly to local community organizations working toward COVID-19 relief efforts. 

Our employees also give back to their local communities by volunteering for and donating to their favorite causes. In response to the unprecedented impacts of COVID-19 and the social justice movement of 2020, in June, the TEGNA Foundation doubled its employee matching gift program, offering employees a 2:1 match for their donations to the causes and nonprofits most meaningful to them. In 2020, TEGNA Foundation approved more than 3,000 employee matching gifts, a new high for the program. More than 1,000 unique charities were reached through our employees’ giving, and their donations combined with the TEGNA Foundation’s matches totaled more than $1.9 million. 

We support employee participation in charitable causes, providing 10 hours of paid time off annually for volunteer work in addition to our employee matching gift program. Employees still found ways to be impactful in 2020 despite the limitations of COVID-19, using their volunteer time off hours for virtual events such as online mentorship or socially distanced food delivery to those in need. Our employees also take part in mentoring our nation’s veterans through our partnership with American Corporate Partners, helping veterans transition out of the military and guiding them as they re-enter life in the private sector.

Our stations are also a valued resource for communities when natural disasters strike. In addition to our news coverage that keeps our audience informed and safe during disasters, our stations tell inspirational stories of heroism and hope to help our communities pull together during times of crisis. When wildfires began affecting Oregon and Washington residents, KGW activated the Northwest Response Fund, in partnership with the Red Cross, to assist residents who have been displaced or impacted. Within one week, KGW helped to raise more than $1.0 million.

In 2020, we were named to The Civic 50 by Points of Light, the world’s largest organization dedicated to volunteer service. The Civic 50 recognizes TEGNA as one of the 50 most community-minded companies in the United States. In addition, we were also selected by The Civic 50 as the Sector Leader in the Telecommunications industry.

Corporate Governance - Our management and Board of Directors aim to create value for our shareholders through effective, ethical management of our company. Our Board of Directors has implemented strong corporate governance policies that align with best practices for publicly held companies and the evolving expectations of shareholders and institutional investors.

•Independent Board Oversight: We have an independent and diverse Board, led by an independent chairman. The Board maintains objective oversight as 11 out of TEGNA’s 12 Directors are independent, with CEO Dave Lougee the only TEGNA employee represented on the Board. The separation of the roles of Chairman and CEO allows for effective, independent Board oversight and communication, while enabling the CEO to focus on executing the strategic plan and managing operations. The Board also conducts an annual performance evaluation to ensure the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, as well as the broader Board leadership structure.

15

•Active, Engaged Board: Our directors spend significant time engaged in strategy discussions in order to identify potential opportunities to create value for our shareholders. The Board also oversees risk management through regular discussions with senior leadership, considering risks in the context of our strategic plan and operations. Directors play a key role in TEGNA’s extensive shareholder engagement program, which actively seeks feedback from investors to gain a better perspective on our management and performance in key areas.

•Experience Aligned with Long-Term Strategy: Since 2017, TEGNA has undergone a Board refreshment process to ensure Directors’ expertise align with TEGNA’s strategic evolution. During this period, we added four independent Directors with deep expertise in media, technology, social/digital, and capital markets and transactional experience. 

•Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion: Our Board and management are committed to ensuring our company reflects the diversity of the communities we serve. To strengthen accountability on diversity into the governance of our company, in 2020 TEGNA’s Board adopted specific areas of oversight for each Board committee regarding how we approach diversity:

◦The Leadership Development & Compensation Committee is responsible for monitoring and supporting our performance in diversity, inclusion and equal employment opportunity, and the continuation of our efforts to gain and maintain diversity among our employees and management.

◦The Nominating & Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the racial, ethnic and gender diversity of the Board.

◦The Public Policy and Regulatory Committee reviews with management our approach to, and initiatives and support for, promoting racial and ethnic diversity in our news and other content, through inclusive journalism and racial and ethnic diversity in our editorial decision-making and leadership.

◦The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring our finance and asset management-related diversity and inclusion efforts, including our investment and purchasing involving minority-owned businesses.

In addition to the corporate governance practices discussed above, other important corporate governance practices we follow include:

•All of our directors are elected annually; 

•Our directors and senior executives are subject to stock ownership guidelines; 

•We do not have a shareholder rights plan (poison pill) in place;

•Our Board has adopted a proxy access by-law provision; and

•Mergers and other business combinations involving the Company generally may be approved by a simple majority vote. 

Additional information regarding our corporate governance practices is included in our Principles of Corporate Governance posted on the Corporate Governance page under the “Investors” menu of our website at www.tegna.com.

16

MARKETS WE SERVE

TELEVISION STATIONS AND AFFILIATED DIGITAL PLATFORM[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

17

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

TEGNA ON THE NET: News and information about us is available on our web site, www.TEGNA.com. In addition to news and other information about us, we provide access through this site to our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them electronically to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Certifications by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are included as exhibits to our SEC reports (including to this Form 10-K). We also provide access on this web site to our Principles of Corporate Governance, the charters of our Audit, Leadership Development and Compensation, Nominating and Governance, and Public Policy and Regulation Committees and other important governance documents and policies, including our Ethics and Inside Trading Policies. Copies of all of these corporate governance documents are available to any shareholder upon written request made to our Secretary at the headquarters address. We will disclose on this web site changes to, or waivers of, our corporate ethics policy.

Certain factors affecting forward-looking statements

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that do not describe historical facts may constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial performance and other matters, which include, but are not limited to the adverse impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and its effect on our revenues, particularly our non-political advertising revenues. The words “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “could,” “should,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “project” and similar expressions, among others, generally identify “forward-looking statements”. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, including those described within Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report.

18

Our actual financial results may be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections. Given these uncertainties, forward-looking statements should not be relied on in making investment decisions. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of its filing. Except where required by applicable law, we expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS