ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

Foreign Currency and Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to global market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency and interest rates. We use derivative instruments to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal course of business and do not hold or issue derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 

We may elect to designate certain derivatives as hedging instruments under U.S. GAAP. We formally document all relationships between designated hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking hedged transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to forecasted cash flows and assessing, both at inception and on an ongoing basis, the effectiveness of the hedging relationships. 

Our foreign exchange risk management program consists of designated cash flow hedges and undesignated hedges. As of the end of Fiscal 2020, we had hedge instruments, primarily for British Pound/U.S. Dollar, U.S. Dollar/Chinese Renminbi, Euro/U.S. Dollar, U.S. Dollar/Canadian Dollar, U.S. Dollar/Mexican Peso, and Australian Dollar/U.S. Dollar currency pairs. All derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value and classified based on the instruments maturity dates. The table below provides information about our foreign currency forward exchange agreements and presents the notional amounts and weighted average exchange rates by contractual maturity dates: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We currently generate a majority of our consolidated net revenues in the United States, and the reporting currency for our Consolidated Financial Statements is the U.S. dollar. As our net revenues and expenses generated outside of the United States increase, our results of operations could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, as we recognize foreign revenues in local foreign currencies and if the U.S. dollar strengthens, it could have a negative impact on our foreign revenues upon translation of those results into the U.S. dollar upon consolidation of our financial statements. In addition, we are exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relating to transactions generated by our international subsidiaries in currencies other than their local currencies. These gains and losses are driven by non-functional currency generated revenue, non-functional currency inventory purchases, investments in U.S. Dollar denominated 

53

available-for-sale debt securities, and certain other intercompany transactions. As of the end of Fiscal 2020, the aggregate notional value of our outstanding cash flow hedges was $812.5 million, with contract maturities ranging from one to twenty-four months.

In order to maintain liquidity and fund business operations, we may enter into long term debt arrangements with various lenders which bear a range of fixed and variable rates of interest. The nature and amount of our long term debt can be expected to vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. We may elect to enter into interest rate swap contracts to reduce the impact associated with interest rate fluctuations from time to time. Our interest rate swap contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. As of the end of Fiscal 2020, as all of our long-term debt bore fixed rate interest rates, we had no outstanding interest rate swap contracts. 

For contracts designated as cash flow hedges, the changes in fair value are reported as other comprehensive income and are recognized in current earnings in the period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects current earnings. One of the criteria for this accounting treatment is the notional value of these derivative contracts should not be in excess of specifically identified anticipated transactions. By their very nature, our estimates of the anticipated transactions may fluctuate over time and may ultimately vary from actual transactions. When anticipated transaction estimates or actual transaction amounts decline below hedged levels, or if it is no longer probable a forecasted transaction will occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time, we are required to reclassify the cumulative change in fair value of the over-hedged portion of the related hedge contract from Other comprehensive income (loss) to Other expense, net during the period in which the decrease occurs. 

We enter into derivative contracts with major financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings and are exposed to credit losses in the event of non-performance by these financial institutions. This credit risk is generally limited to the unrealized gains in the derivative contracts. However, we monitor the credit quality of these financial institutions and consider the risk of counterparty default to be minimal. Although we have entered into foreign currency contracts to minimize some of the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on future cash flows, we cannot be assured that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Credit Risk 

We are exposed to credit risk primarily on our accounts receivable. We provide credit to customers in the ordinary course of business and perform ongoing credit evaluations. We believe that our exposure to concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is largely mitigated by our customer base. We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to cover customer credit risks as of the end of Fiscal 2020. Refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts" for a further discussion on our policies. 

Inflation

Inflationary factors such as increases in the cost of our product and overhead costs may adversely affect our operating results. Although we do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations in recent periods, a high rate of inflation in the future may have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain current levels of gross margin and selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues if the selling prices of our products do not increase with these increased costs.

54

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA