ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report and also with RISK FACTORS in Item 1A of this report. This discussion also includes forward-looking statements. Refer to CAUTIONARY INFORMATION ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS in Part I of this report for important information about these types of statements. Discussion and analysis regarding 2020 and 2019 is provided below. For discussion and analysis regarding 2018, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 as previously filed with the SEC.

OVERVIEW

Cimarex is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Our operations are located entirely within the United States of America, mainly in Texas, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Currently our operations are focused in two main areas: the Permian Basin and the Mid-Continent. Our Permian Basin region encompasses west Texas and southeast New Mexico. Our Mid-Continent region consists of Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle.

Our principal business objective is to increase shareholder value through the profitable growth of our proved reserves and production while seeking to minimize our impact on the communities in which we operate for the long-term. Our strategy centers on maximizing cash flow from producing properties for reinvestment in exploration and development activities and for providing cash returns to shareholders through dividends and debt reduction. We consider merger and acquisition opportunities that enhance our competitive position and we occasionally divest non-strategic assets.

38
On March 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Resolute Energy Corporation (“Resolute”), an independent oil and gas company focused on the acquisition and development of unconventional oil and gas properties in the Delaware Basin area of the Permian Basin of west Texas. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the acquisition.

We believe that detailed technical analysis, operational focus, and a disciplined capital investment process mitigate risk and position us to continue to achieve profitable increases in proved reserves and production. Our drilling inventory and limited long-term commitments provide the flexibility to respond quickly to industry volatility. Our investments are generally funded with cash flow provided by operating activities together with cash on hand, bank borrowings, sales of non-strategic assets, and, from time to time, public financing based on our monitoring of capital markets and our balance sheet.

In the first quarter of 2020, the highly transmissible and pathogenic coronavirus known as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that causes the disease known as COVID-19 began to spread globally. In February 2020, we created a multi-disciplinary task force to address the potential impacts of COVID-19 on our employees and operations. The task force developed health and safety protocols to protect employees and augmented our business interruption plans to address potential impacts on our business from COVID-19.

Market Conditions

The oil and gas industry is cyclical and commodity prices can fluctuate significantly. We expect this volatility to persist. Commodity prices are affected by many factors outside of our control, including changes in market supply and demand, inventory storage levels, weather conditions, and other factors. Local market prices for oil and gas can be impacted by pipeline capacity constraints limiting takeaway and increasing basis differentials. 

The reduction in economic activity from the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in unprecedented demand destruction and inventory increases for oil and natural gas liquids. In addition, in early March 2020, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other countries failed to reach an agreement on oil production limits and Saudi Arabia unilaterally reduced the sales price of its oil and announced that it would increase its oil production. As a result of these actions and the COVID-19 pandemic, WTI oil prices dropped from an average of $57.53 per barrel in January 2020 to $16.70 per barrel in April 2020. Since April 2020, average WTI oil prices have risen to $47.07 per barrel in December 2020. The oil price improvement and or stabilization has coincided with some recovery of global economic activity, lower supply from major oil producing countries, and moderating inventory levels.

In response to the decline in oil prices in the second quarter 2020, we took immediate steps to reduce our capital investment, including releasing all but one drilling rig by mid-May and deferring well completion activity. This resulted in a reduction in exploration, development, and acquisition capital expenditures from $255.9 million in the first quarter of 2020 to $83.8 million in the second quarter of 2020, $80.5 million in the third quarter of 2020, and $136.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2020. As a result, total exploration, development, and acquisition capital expenditures for 2020 were $556.7 million. This level of capital expenditures was less than our cash flow from operating activities, which has allowed us to build our cash balance and not incur any incremental borrowings this year. With the subsequent improvement in oil prices, we exited 2020 running five drilling rigs and completing wells with one completion crew. 

39
The table below presents average NYMEX prices and our company-wide average realized prices and basis differentials for 2020 and 2019. The average NYMEX and realized prices have declined for all products, while the average basis differentials have improved. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The average price differentials that we realized in our two primary areas of operation are shown in the table below for the periods indicated. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40
Pipeline expansion projects in the Permian Basin and reduced drilling activity and production have eased take away constraints and improved price differentials. However, if pipeline projects are delayed, production increases faster than capacity increases, or the basin experiences pipeline disruptions or other constraints, differentials could potentially worsen. Our revenue, profitability, and future growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our oil and gas production and can be adversely affected by realized price decreases. 

Summary of Operating and Financial Results for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019

•Total daily production volumes decreased 9% to 252.5 MBOE per day.

•Oil volumes decreased 11% to 76.7 MBbls per day.

•Gas volumes decreased 8% to 635.6 MMcf per day.

•NGL volumes decreased 10% to 69.8 MBbls per day.

•Total production revenue decreased 35% to $1.51 billion.

•Year-end proved reserves decreased 14% to 531.0 MMBOE, as compared to 619.6 MMBOE at year-end 2019.

•Exploration and development capital investments were $544.9 million, as compared to $1.24 billion in 2019.

•Cash flow provided by operating activities decreased 33% to $904.2 million.

•Net loss of $1.97 billion ($19.73 per diluted share) as compared to a net loss of $124.6 million ($1.33 per diluted share) in 2019. 

All of the above results were impacted by the demand destruction and lower prices in 2020 that occurred primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Further discussion of these results is provided below. 

41
Proved Reserves

Our proved reserves by region at December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year-end 2020 proved reserves decreased approximately 14% to 531.0 MMBOE, compared to 619.6 MMBOE at year-end 2019. At December 31, 2020, proved gas reserves were 1.36 Tcf, proved oil reserves were 144.1 MMBbls, and proved NGL reserves were 159.8 MMBbls. Reserves in the Permian Basin accounted for 68% of our total proved reserves with nearly all of the remainder in our Mid-Continent region. See SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES (UNAUDITED) in Item 8 for a more detailed discussion regarding year-over-year changes in our proved reserves.

The process of estimating quantities of oil, gas, and NGL reserves is complex. Judgment and interpretation are required in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data. Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that our reserve estimates represent the most accurate assessments possible, subjective decisions and available data for our various fields make these estimates generally less precise than other estimates included in financial statement disclosures. See Proved Reserves Estimation Procedures in Items 1 and 2 for a discussion of our reserve estimation process and Item 1A RISK FACTORS, which includes a discussion of factors that affect our proved reserves estimates.

42
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Revenues

Our revenues are derived from sales of our oil, gas, and NGL production. Increases or decreases in our revenues, profitability, and future production growth are highly dependent on the commodity prices we receive. Prices are market driven and we expect that future prices will continue to fluctuate due to supply and demand factors, availability of transportation, seasonality, and geopolitical, economic, and other factors. 

Production volumes and realized prices were lower for all products during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Subsequent to the first quarter of 2020, we reduced our drilling and completion activities and curtailed or shut in production in certain areas as a result of the unprecedented demand destruction and resulting severe price decreases for oil stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic. Prices improved in the latter part of the year. The following table shows our production revenues by product for 2020 and 2019 as well as the change in revenues due to changes in prices and volumes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43
The table below presents our production volumes by commodity, our average realized commodity prices, and certain major U.S. index prices. The sale of our Permian Basin oil production is typically tied to the WTI Midland benchmark price and the sale of our Mid-Continent oil production is typically tied to the WTI Cushing benchmark price. During 2020 and 2019, 88% and 84%, respectively, of our oil production was in the Permian Basin. Our realized prices do not include settlements of commodity derivative contracts.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our 2020 daily production volumes were 252.5 MBOE, a 9% decrease from 2019. This decrease is the result of our intentional reduction in capital spending and curtailing and shutting in production in certain areas due to the demand destruction caused primarily by the COVID-19 pandemic. See Production Volumes, Prices, and Costs and Exploration and Development Overview in Items 1 and 2 of this report for production information by region and a discussion of our drilling activities.

44
Other Revenues

Gas gathering and other is revenue earned when we transport, process, and market some third-party gas that is associated with our equity gas. Gas marketing is comprised of the fees we earn when we act as agent under short-term sales and supply agreements and market and sell gas for other working interest owners, net of the related expenses. Gas marketing also includes net pipeline settlements incurred as a result of these activities. The table below reflects revenues from third-party gas gathering and other and our net marketing margin for marketing other working interest owners’ gas for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fluctuations in revenues from gas gathering and gas marketing activities are primarily a function of increases and decreases in volumes, commodity prices, and gathering rate charges.

Operating Costs and Expenses

Costs associated with producing oil and gas are substantial. Among other factors, some of these costs vary with commodity prices, some trend with the volume of production, some are a function of the number of wells we own, some depend on the prices charged by service companies, and some fluctuate based on a combination of the foregoing. 

Total operating costs and expenses of $3.84 billion in 2020 were 55% higher than the $2.48 billion incurred in 2019. The primary reasons for the increase were: (i) the $1.64 billion in ceiling test impairments incurred in 2020, which was $1.02 billion greater than the ceiling test impairment incurred in 2019 and (ii) the $714.4 million impairment of goodwill incurred during 2020, partially offset by (iii) the $186.2 million decrease in depreciation, depletion, and amortization in 2020. The following table shows our operating costs and expenses for the years indicated and a discussion of the operating costs and expenses follows.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45
Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties

We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Under this method, we are required to perform quarterly ceiling test calculations to test our oil and gas properties for possible impairment. If the net capitalized cost of our oil and gas properties, as adjusted for income taxes, exceeds the ceiling limitation, the excess is charged to expense. The ceiling limitation is equal to the sum of: (i) the present value discounted at 10% of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, (ii) the cost of properties not being amortized, and (iii) the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproven properties included in the costs being amortized, as adjusted for income taxes. We currently do not have any unproven properties that are being amortized. Estimated future net revenues are determined based on trailing twelve-month average commodity prices and estimated proved reserve quantities, operating costs, and capital expenditures.

The quarterly ceiling test is primarily impacted by commodity prices, changes in estimated reserve quantities, reserves produced, overall exploration and development costs, depletion expense, and deferred taxes. If pricing conditions decline, or if there is a negative impact on one or more of the other components of the calculation, we may incur a full cost ceiling test impairment. The calculated ceiling limitation is not intended to be indicative of the fair market value of our proved reserves or future results. Impairment charges do not affect cash flow from operating activities, but do adversely affect our net income and various components of our balance sheet. Any impairment of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date. 

During 2020, we recognized ceiling test impairments totaling $1.64 billion. The impairments resulted primarily from the impact of decreases in the 12-month average trailing prices for oil, gas, and NGLs as well as significant basis differentials utilized in determining the estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves. We may recognize additional ceiling test impairments in the future. 

Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization

Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (“DD&A”) consisted of the following for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depletion of our producing properties is computed using the units-of-production method. The economic life of each producing well depends upon the estimated proved reserves for that well, which in turn depend upon the assumed realized sales price for future production. Therefore, fluctuations in oil and gas prices will impact the level of proved reserves used in the calculation. Higher prices generally have the effect of increasing reserves, which reduces depletion expense. Conversely, lower prices generally have the effect of decreasing reserves, which increases depletion expense. The cost of replacing production also impacts our depletion expense. In addition, changes in estimates of reserve quantities, estimates of operating and future development costs, reclassifications of properties from unproved to proved, and impairments of oil and gas properties will also impact depletion expense. Our depletion expense decreased during 2020 as compared to 2019 primarily due to a decrease in our depletable basis mostly resulting from ceiling test impairments recognized at December 31, 2019, March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020, and September 30, 2020. In addition, our depletion expense decreased as a result of a decrease in our production resulting from a reduction in drilling and completion activity subsequent to the first quarter 2020 and curtailment or shut in of production in certain areas stemming from the demand destruction caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. These causes for decreased depletion expense were partially offset by a decrease in our reserves, primarily due to a decrease in the trailing twelve month prices used to calculate reserves, which increased depletion expense. 

46
Fixed assets consist primarily of gas gathering and plant facilities, water infrastructure, vehicles, airplanes, office furniture, and computer equipment and software. These items are recorded at cost and are depreciated on the straight-line method based on expected lives of the individual assets, which range from 3 to 30 years. Also included in our depreciation expense is the depreciation of the right-of-use asset associated with our finance lease gathering system. The increase in depreciation expense during 2020 as compared to 2019 is primarily due to increased depreciation on our gathering and plant facilities due to ongoing expenditures on this infrastructure and projects being placed into service. 

Asset Retirement Obligation

Asset retirement obligation expense is typically primarily comprised of accretion expense. In periods subsequent to the initial measurement of an asset retirement obligation liability at present value, a period-to-period increase in the carrying amount of the liability is recognized as accretion expense, which represents the effect of the passage of time on the amount of the liability. Also included in asset retirement obligation expense are gains and losses recognized on the settlement of asset retirement obligation liabilities. Accretion expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, also included $4.9 million to increase our estimated asset retirement obligation liability to decommission certain offshore properties in the Gulf of Mexico in which we were a prior lessee. As a result of the current lessee defaulting on its obligation to decommission the properties, in 2018 the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement ordered us and other prior lessees to decommission all wells, pipelines, platforms, and facilities related to the properties. 

Impairment of Goodwill

We concluded that goodwill was impaired at March 31, 2020 and expensed the entire balance of $714.4 million at that time. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impairment of goodwill.

Production

Production expense generally consists of costs for labor, equipment, maintenance, saltwater disposal, compression, power, treating, and miscellaneous other costs (lease operating expense). Production expense also includes well workover activity necessary to maintain production from existing wells. Production expense consisted of lease operating expense and workover expense as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Lease operating expense decreased 11%, or $28.7 million, in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease is primarily related to the reduction in activity and our cost saving efforts such as our initiative to reduce the use of outside labor, our voluntary early retirement incentive program and involuntary reduction in workforce, delaying non-essential work, shutting in wells, and decreasing drilling and completion, which has led to fewer wells coming online. 

Workover expense decreased 39%, or $25.9 million, during 2020 as compared to 2019. We had fewer workover projects during 2020 as compared to 2019 as a result of a concerted effort to reduce activity and delay non-essential work. 

47
Transportation, Processing, and Other Operating

Transportation, processing, and other operating costs principally consist of expenditures to prepare and transport production from the wellhead, including gathering, fuel, compression, and processing costs. Costs vary by region and will fluctuate with increases or decreases in production volumes, contractual fees, and changes in fuel and compression costs, and the structure of sales contracts. If the sales contract transfers control of the product at the wellhead, transportation and processing costs are included as a reduction in the revenue we record and are not included in transportation, processing, and other operating costs. Transportation, processing, and other operating costs in 2020 were 10%, or $24.9 million, lower than in 2019 primarily due to a decrease in production volumes. 

Gas Gathering and Other

Gas gathering and other includes costs associated with operating our gas gathering and processing infrastructure, including product costs and operating and maintenance expenses. A portion of these costs are reclassified to Transportation, processing, and other expense and Production expense in order to reflect an allocation of the costs incurred to operate our gas gathering facilities as a cost of transporting our equity share of gas produced and operating our wells. Gas gathering and other in 2020 was minimally higher than in 2019. 

Taxes Other than Income

Taxes other than income consist of production (or severance) taxes, ad valorem taxes, and other taxes. State and local taxing authorities assess these taxes, with production taxes being based on the volume or value of production and ad valorem taxes being based on the value of properties. The following table presents taxes other than income for the years indicated. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Taxes other than income decreased 46%, or $69.3 million, in 2020 as compared to 2019. Production taxes make up the majority of our taxes other than income and they decreased primarily due to decreases in oil and NGL prices. Ad valorem taxes also decreased primarily due to decreased valuations based on decreased commodity prices. Other taxes other than income are comprised of franchise and consumer use and sales taxes. 

48
General and Administrative

General and administrative (“G&A”) expense consists primarily of salaries and related benefits, office rent, legal and consulting fees, systems costs, and other administrative costs incurred. Our G&A expense is reported net of amounts reimbursed to us by working interest owners of the oil and gas properties we operate and net of amounts capitalized pursuant to the full cost method of accounting. The amount of expense capitalized varies and depends on whether the cost incurred can be directly identified with acquisition, exploration, and development activities. The percentage of gross G&A capitalized was 34% and 44% during 2020 and 2019, respectively. In response to low oil prices and demand destruction in 2020, we reduced our acquisition, exploration, and development activities and, therefore, the percentage of gross G&A capitalized decreased from 2019. The table below shows our G&A costs. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

G&A expense increased 16%, or $15.2 million, in 2020 as compared to 2019. This increase is primarily due to $28.7 million in severance expense, none of which was capitalized, associated with the voluntary early retirement incentive program that we offered to employees who met certain eligibility criteria in the first quarter of 2020 and the involuntary reduction in workforce program that we carried out in the third quarter of 2020. These programs reduced our headcount by approximately 24% from December 31, 2019 and we expect G&A expense related to salaries and wages to be lower in future periods as a result. The increase in G&A expense due to the severance expense was partially offset by decreases in salaries and wages, health insurance, annual bonus, consulting, and travel expenses. 

Stock-based Compensation

Stock-based compensation expense consists of charges resulting from the amortization of the cost of restricted stock and stock option awards, net of amounts capitalized to oil and gas properties. We have recognized stock-based compensation cost as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Periodic stock-based compensation expense will fluctuate based on the grant date fair value of awards, the number of awards, the requisite service period of the awards, employee forfeitures, and the timing of the awards. Our accounting policy is to account for forfeitures in compensation cost when they occur. The amount capitalized to oil and gas properties decreased as a percentage of total stock-based compensation cost in 2020 as compared to 2019 due to reduced acquisition, exploration, and development activities in 2020 as a result of the low oil prices and demand destruction experienced in 2020 stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic and OPEC and other countries’ actions. The decreased capitalization caused the overall stock-based compensation expense to increase. 

49
Loss on Derivative Instruments, Net

Net gains and losses on our derivative instruments are a function of fluctuations in the underlying commodity index prices as compared to the contracted prices and the monthly cash settlements (if any) of the instruments. We have elected not to designate our derivatives as hedging instruments for accounting purposes and, therefore, we do not apply hedge accounting treatment to our derivative instruments. Consequently, changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments and cash settlements on the instruments are included as a component of operating costs and expenses as either a net gain or loss on derivative instruments. Cash settlements of our contracts are included in cash flows from operating activities in our statements of cash flows. The following table presents the components of “Loss on derivative instruments, net” for the years indicated. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Operating Expense, Net

Other operating expense, net decreased $18.5 million in 2020 as compared to 2019. This expense is typically comprised primarily of litigation settlements and allowance for credit losses adjustments. Other operating expense, net in 2019 included $10.0 million in litigation settlements and $8.4 million in acquisition-related costs incurred to effect the Resolute acquisition. The acquisition-related costs consisted primarily of advisory and legal fees. 

Other Income and Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The majority of our interest expense relates to interest on the borrowings under our senior unsecured notes, with such interest totaling $83.9 million and $79.9 million during 2020 and 2019, respectively. Also included in interest expense is interest expense on our Credit Facility borrowings, the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts, interest expense on our finance lease, and miscellaneous interest expense. See LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Long-Term Debt below for further information regarding our debt. The $4.3 million 

50
loss on early extinguishment of debt incurred during 2019 was associated with the $600.0 million of 8.5% senior notes due May 1, 2020 that we acquired with Resolute on March 1, 2019 and elected to immediately repay. 

We capitalize interest on non-producing leasehold costs, the in-progress costs of drilling and completing wells, and constructing midstream assets. Capitalized interest will fluctuate based primarily on the amount of costs subject to interest capitalization and based on the rates applicable to borrowings outstanding during the period. The amount of costs subject to interest capitalization was lower in 2020 as compared to 2019, primarily due to the decrease in the balance of non-producing leasehold costs as a result of transfers to proved properties as well as due to a decrease in the in-progress costs of drilling and completing wells and constructing midstream assets due to decreased activity in 2020. 

Other, net includes interest income of $0.7 million and $3.3 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in interest income in 2020 is primarily due to the decrease in our investable cash balance after acquiring Resolute on March 1, 2019. Other components of Other, net include miscellaneous income and expense items that vary from period to period, including gain or loss related to the sale or value of oil and gas well equipment and supplies, gain or loss on miscellaneous fixed asset sales, and income and expense associated with other non-operating activities.

Income Tax Benefit

The components of our provision for income taxes and our combined federal and state effective income tax rates were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our combined federal and state effective tax rates, as shown above, differ from the statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, changes in tax laws and tax rates enacted in the period, and changes in valuation allowances. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our income taxes. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

With the volatility in commodity prices and recognizing the U.S. oil volume growth impact on the overall world oil supply and demand balance, we have adjusted our approach to our reinvestment rates to target 70 to 80% of operating cash flow. With this investment approach, we will have 20 to 30% of cash flow available to increase cash on our balance sheet, which we plan to initially target to reduce debt and continue to fund and increase our regular common stock cash dividend.

We strive to maintain an adequate liquidity level to address volatility and risk. Sources of liquidity include our cash flow from operations, cash on hand, available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, and proceeds from sales of non-strategic assets.

51
Our liquidity is highly dependent on the prices we receive for the oil, gas, and NGLs we produce. The prices we receive are determined by prevailing market conditions and greatly influence our revenue, cash flow, profitability, access to capital, and future rate of growth. See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues above for further information regarding the impact realized prices have had on our 2020 earnings.

We address volatility in commodity prices primarily by maintaining flexibility in our capital investment program. We have a balanced and abundant drilling inventory and limited long-term commitments, which enable us to respond quickly to industry volatility. In response to the decline in oil prices in the second quarter of 2020, we took immediate steps to reduce our capital investment, including releasing all but one drilling rig by mid-May 2020 and deferring well completion activity. As a result, total exploration, development, and acquisition capital expenditures for 2020 were $556.7 million. This level of capital expenditures was less than our cash flow from operating activities, which has allowed us to build our cash balance and not incur any incremental borrowings this year. With the subsequent improvement in oil prices, we exited 2020 running five drilling rigs and completing wells with one completion crew. See Capital Expenditures below for information regarding our 2020 capital expenditures and our projected 2021 expenditures.

We periodically use derivative instruments to mitigate volatility in commodity prices. At December 31, 2020, we had derivative contracts covering a portion of our 2021 and 2022 production. Depending on changes in oil and gas futures markets and management’s view of underlying supply and demand trends, we may increase or decrease our derivative positions from current levels. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our derivative instruments.

Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2020 were $273.1 million. At December 31, 2020, our long-term debt consisted of $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes, with $750 million 4.375% notes due in 2024, $750 million 3.90% notes due in 2027, and $500 million 4.375% notes due in 2029. At December 31, 2020, we had no borrowings and $2.5 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility, leaving an unused borrowing availability of $1.248 billion. See Long-Term Debt below for more information regarding our debt.

In December 2020, we paid $43.0 million to repurchase 55% of the outstanding shares of our preferred stock and we may, from time to time, seek to repurchase additional shares of our outstanding preferred stock through cash repurchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such activities, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our preferred stock.

We expect our operating cash flow and other capital resources to be adequate to meet our needs for planned capital expenditures, working capital, debt service, and dividends declared for the next twelve months.

Analysis of Cash Flow Changes

The following table presents the totals of the major cash flow classification categories from our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the periods indicated.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2020 was $904.2 million, down $439.8 million, or 33%, from $1.34 billion in 2019. The decrease resulted primarily from a decrease in revenues due to the price collapses and demand destruction seen in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions of OPEC and other countries. This decrease was partially offset by: (i) increased cash inflows for settlements of derivative instruments, (ii) decreased overall operating expenses (e.g. production, taxes other than income, and transportation, processing, and other operating expenses) primarily as a result of decreased activity, production, and revenues, and (iii) a decreased investment in working capital. See RESULTS OF OPERATIONS above for more information regarding the changes in revenue and operating expenses.

Net cash used by investing activities was $578.9 million and $1.58 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The majority of our cash flows used by investing activities are for oil and gas capital expenditures, which totaled $594.8 million and $1.25 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our 2020 oil and gas capital expenditures decreased as compared to 2019 due to deliberate actions taken by us to reduce our capital investment in response to the decline in oil prices and demand experienced in 2020. Net cash used by investing activities also includes net cash outflows for oil and gas property acquisitions, which were minimal in 2020 at $11.9 million, but in 2019 included the $325.7 million cash portion of the consideration paid for the Resolute acquisition, net of the $41.2 million in cash acquired with Resolute. Our other capital expenditures, which are primarily for midstream assets, were $44.3 million and $73.7 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, with 2020 decreasing due to the overall decrease in capital investments in 2020. Included in net cash used by investing activities are proceeds from other asset sales, which are generally for the divestiture of non-strategic oil and gas properties and totaled $72.1 million and $30.0 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Proceeds from other asset sales in 2020 included net cash proceeds of $68.7 million from the sale of certain water infrastructure assets in Eddy County, New Mexico. 

Net cash used by financing activities was $146.9 million and $472.0 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. During 2020, we paid $43.0 million to repurchase some of our outstanding preferred stock. During 2020, we borrowed and repaid an aggregate of $172.0 million on our credit facility to meet cash requirements as needed. During 2020, we amended our credit facility, paying $1.5 million in financing costs. During 2019, we issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2029 at 99.862% of par for proceeds of $499.3 million, paying $4.6 million in underwriting fees and financing costs. Additionally in 2019, we borrowed and repaid an aggregate of $2.12 billion on our credit facility to assist in funding the Resolute acquisition and thereafter to meet cash requirements as needed. In connection with the acquisition of Resolute, we assumed $870.0 million in principal amount of long-term debt that we immediately repaid, incurring a redemption fee of $4.3 million. During 2019, we amended our credit facility, paying $3.0 million in financing costs. Net cash used by financing activities during both years included: (i) the payment of dividends, (ii) the payment of income tax withholdings made on behalf of our employees upon the net settlement of equity-classified stock awards, and (iii) finance lease payments. During 2020 and 2019, we declared cash dividends on both our common and preferred stock quarterly, paying them in the quarter following declaration. During 2020, we paid one $0.20 per share dividend and three $0.22 per share dividends on our common stock and four $20.3125 per share dividends on our preferred stock, totaling $93.0 million. During 2019, we paid one $0.18 per share dividend and three $0.20 per share dividends on our common stock and three $20.3125 per share dividends on our preferred stock, totaling $81.7 million. Future dividend payments will depend on our level of earnings, financial requirements, and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. We paid employee income tax withholdings on the net settlement of equity-classified stock awards totaling $4.5 million and $5.2 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. We paid finance lease payments of $4.8 million and $3.9 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

53
Capital Expenditures

The following table presents capitalized expenditures for oil and gas property acquisition, exploration, and development activities. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts in the table above are presented on an accrual basis. Oil and gas capital expenditures and acquisitions of oil and gas properties in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows reflect activities on a cash basis.

On March 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Resolute. The fair value of the proved and unproved properties recorded in the purchase price allocation for this acquisition was $1.72 billion.

Our 2020 total capital expenditures were originally forecast to range from $1.25-$1.35 billion, with the majority expected to be invested in the Permian Basin. In response to the decline in oil prices in the second quarter 2020, we took immediate steps to reduce our capital investment, including releasing all but one drilling rig by mid-May and deferring well completion activity. This resulted in total acquisition, exploration, and development capital expenditures for 2020 of $556.7 million. Approximately 92% of our 2020 exploration and development expenditures were in the Permian Basin and 8% were in the Mid-Continent. During 2020, we completed or participated in the completion of 149 gross (51.0 net) productive wells, of which we operated 61 gross (47.6 net) wells. With the subsequent improvement in oil prices, we exited 2020 running five drilling rigs and completing wells with one completion crew. See Items 1 and 2 of this report for further information regarding our oil and gas properties. 

In 2020, the level of our capital expenditures was less than our cash flow from operating activities, which allowed us to build our cash balance and not incur any incremental borrowings. We intend to fund our 2021 capital investment program with cash flow from operating activities and potential sales of non-strategic assets. The timing of capital expenditures and the receipt of cash flows do not necessarily match, which may cause us to borrow and repay funds under our credit facility from time-to-time. Based on current economic conditions, our 2021 total capital expenditures are projected to range from $650 million to $750 million. This includes drilling and completion capital of approximately $500 million to $600 million, investments in saltwater disposal/midstream infrastructure of approximately $40 million, and investments in other, including capitalized G&A and non-producing leasehold, of approximately $110 million. Over 90% of our planned 2021 drilling and completion capital is expected to be invested in the Permian Basin, with the remainder in the Mid-Continent. We regularly review our capital expenditures throughout the year and will adjust our investments based on increases or decreases in our cash flow. See Long-Term Debt—Bank Debt below for further information regarding our credit facility.

54
We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental and safety regulations and requirements. These costs are considered a normal recurring cost of our ongoing operations. While we expect pending legislation and regulations to increase the cost of business, we do not anticipate that we will be required to expend amounts that will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or operations, nor are we aware of any pending legislative or regulatory changes that would have a material impact. However, compliance with new legislation and regulations could increase our costs and negatively affect demand for oil or gas and result in a material adverse effect on our financial position or operations. See Item 1A RISK FACTORS for a description of risks related to current and potential future environmental and safety regulations and requirements that could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.

Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt at December 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ________________________________________

(1)The 4.375% notes due 2024 were issued at par, therefore, the amounts shown in the table are for unamortized debt issuance costs only. At December 31, 2020, the unamortized debt issuance costs and discount related to the 3.90% notes due 2027 were $4.3 million and $1.3 million, respectively. At December 31, 2020, the unamortized debt issuance costs and discount related to the 4.375% notes due 2029 were $3.9 million and $0.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2019, the unamortized debt issuance costs and discount related to the 3.90% notes due 2027 were $4.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2019, the unamortized debt issuance costs and discount related to the 4.375% notes due 2029 were $4.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively.

Bank Debt

On June 3, 2020, we entered into the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “First Amendment”) dated as of February 5, 2019 for our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility has aggregate commitments of $1.25 billion with an option for us to increase the aggregate commitments to $1.5 billion, and matures on February 5, 2024. There is no borrowing base subject to the discretion of the lenders based on the value of our proved reserves under the Credit Facility. The First Amendment, among other things: (i) allows up to $3.5 billion of non-cash impairment charge add-backs to Shareholders’ Equity for covenant calculation purposes, (ii) institutes traditional anti-cash hoarding provisions (if borrowings are outstanding under the Credit Facility) at a consolidated cash threshold of $175.0 million, (iii) reduces the priority lien debt basket from 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets (as defined in the credit agreement) to a $50.0 million cap, and (iv) adds an acknowledgement and consent to European Union bail-in legislation. As of December 31, 2020, we had no bank borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility, but did have letters of credit of $2.5 million outstanding, leaving an unused borrowing availability of $1.248 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we borrowed and repaid an aggregate of $172.0 million on the Credit Facility to meet cash requirements as needed. 

55
At our option, borrowings under the Credit Facility may bear interest at either (a) LIBOR (or an alternate rate determined by the administrative agent for the Credit Facility in accordance with the Credit Facility when LIBOR is no longer available) plus 1.125 - 2.0% based on the credit rating for our senior unsecured long-term debt, or (b) a base rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus 0.125 - 1.0%, based on the credit rating for our senior unsecured long-term debt. Unused borrowings are subject to a commitment fee of 0.125 - 0.35%, based on the credit rating for our senior unsecured long-term debt.

The Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, covenants, and events of default that are customary for investment grade, senior unsecured bank credit agreements, including a financial covenant for the maintenance of a defined total debt-to-capitalization ratio of no greater than 65%. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all of the financial and non-financial covenants.

At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had $4.3 million and $4.0 million, respectively, of unamortized debt issuance costs associated with our Credit Facility, which were recorded as assets and included in “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred $1.5 million in fees paid to the lenders and third-party costs for the First Amendment. The debt issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense ratably over the life of the Credit Facility.

Senior Notes

On March 8, 2019, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior unsecured notes at 99.862% of par to yield 4.392% per annum. The notes are due March 15, 2029 and interest is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15. The effective interest rate on these notes, including the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount, is 4.50%.

In April 2017, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3.90% senior unsecured notes at 99.748% of par to yield 3.93% per annum. These notes are due May 15, 2027 and interest is payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15. The effective interest rate on these notes, including the amortization of debt issuance costs and discount, is 4.01%. 

In June 2014, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior unsecured notes at par. These notes are due June 1, 2024 and interest is payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1. The effective interest rate on these notes, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, is 4.50%.

Our senior unsecured notes are governed by indentures containing certain covenants, events of default, and other restrictive provisions with which we were in compliance as of December 31, 2020. 

56
Working Capital Analysis

At December 31, 2020, we had a working capital deficit of $2.9 million, a change of $134.2 million, or 98% from a working capital deficit of $137.1 million at December 31, 2019. Our working capital deficit decreased primarily as a result of the following:

Working Capital Increases

•Cash and cash equivalents increased by $178.4 million as a result of maintaining capital expenditures at a level below our cash flows from operations in order to increase cash on our balance sheet, which we plan to use to initially target debt reduction and continue to fund and increase our regular common stock cash dividend.

•Operations-related accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased by $153.4 million, primarily due to decreases in: (i) revenue payable due to declines in revenues, (ii) taxes other than income accruals due to decreased prices causing lower production and ad valorem taxes, (iii) trade accounts payable due to decreased activity, and (iv) current asset retirement obligations due to changes in the estimated timing of retirement activities. 

•Exploration and development and midstream capital accruals decreased by $66.6 million as a result of our decision to reduce capital expenditures in response to the decline in oil prices and demand.

Working Capital Decreases

•A decrease of $139.8 million from a net current derivative asset to a net current derivative liability. The fair value of derivative instruments fluctuates based on changes in the underlying price indices as compared to the contracted prices included in the derivative instruments. 

•Accounts receivable decreased by $116.1 million, primarily due to declines in prices lowering our oil and gas sales receivable.

•Oil and gas well equipment and supplies decreased by $10.7 million.

Accounts receivable are a major component of our working capital and include amounts due from a diverse group of companies comprised of major energy companies, pipeline companies, local distribution companies, and other end-users. We conduct credit analyses prior to making any sales to new customers or increasing credit for existing customers and may require parent company guarantees, letters of credit, or prepayments when deemed necessary. For properties we operate, we have the right to realize amounts due to us from non-operators by netting the non-operators’ share of production revenues from those properties. We routinely assess the recoverability of all material accounts receivable and accrue a reserve to the allowance for credit losses based on our estimation of expected losses over the life of the receivables. Historically, losses associated with uncollectible receivables have not been significant. However, most of our accounts receivable balances are uncollateralized and result from transactions with other companies in the oil and gas industry. Concentration of customers may impact our overall credit risk because our customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions within the industry, such as those currently impacting the industry as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and low commodity prices.

57
Dividends

A quarterly cash dividend has been paid on our common stock every quarter since the first quarter of 2006. During 2020, our Board of Directors declared four cash dividends of $0.22 per common share, totaling approximately $90.0 million. During 2020, our Board of Directors declared four cash dividends of $20.3125 per preferred share, totaling approximately $4.9 million. Future dividend payments will depend on our level of earnings, financial requirements, and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our stock.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We may enter into off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations. As of December 31, 2020, our material off-balance sheet arrangements consisted of operating lease agreements for equipment used in connection with our exploration and development activities with lease terms at commencement of 12 months or less. As an accounting policy, we have elected not to apply the recognition requirements of Topic 842 to these leases. As such, we have not recorded any lease liabilities associated with these leases.

Contractual Obligations and Material Commitments

At December 31, 2020, we had the following contractual obligations and material commitments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ________________________________________

(1)The interest payments presented above include the accrued interest payable on our long-term debt as of December 31, 2020 as well as future payments calculated using the long-term debt’s fixed rates, stated maturity dates, and principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2020. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our debt.

(2)Operating leases include the estimated remaining contractual payments under lease agreements as of December 31, 2020. These lease agreements are primarily comprised of leases for commercial real estate, which consists primarily of office space, and compressor equipment.

(3)Of the total unconditional purchase obligations, $2.3 million represents obligations for the purchase of sand for well completions and $16.6 million represents obligations for firm transportation agreements for gas pipeline capacity. 

(4)We have excluded the presentation of the timing of the cash flows associated with our $165.6 million long-term asset retirement obligations because we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the future period of cash settlement. The long-term asset retirement obligation is included in the total asset retirement obligation presented. 

(5)Other long-term liabilities include contractual obligations associated with our employee supplemental savings plan, gas balancing liabilities, and other miscellaneous liabilities. All of these liabilities are accrued on our 

58
Consolidated Balance Sheet. The current portion associated with these long-term liabilities is also presented in the table above.

The following discusses various commercial commitments that we have made that may include potential future cash payments if we fail to meet various performance obligations. These are not reflected in the table above, unless otherwise noted.

At December 31, 2020, we had estimated commitments of approximately: (i) $224.2 million to finish drilling, completing, or performing other work on wells and various other infrastructure projects in progress and (ii) $4.3 million to finish midstream construction in progress.

At December 31, 2020, we had firm sales contracts to deliver approximately 470.3 Bcf of gas over the next 10.5 years. If we do not deliver this gas, our estimated financial commitment, calculated using the January 2021 index prices, would be approximately $908.1 million. The value of this commitment will fluctuate due to price volatility and actual volumes delivered. However, we believe no material financial commitment will be due based on our current proved reserves and production levels and our ability to make market purchases to fulfill these volumetric obligations.

In connection with gas gathering and processing agreements, we have volume commitments over the next 8.0 years. If we do not deliver the committed gas or NGLs, as applicable, the estimated maximum amount that would be payable under these commitments, calculated as of December 31, 2020, would be approximately $640.7 million. However, we believe no material financial commitment will be due based on our current proved reserves and production levels from which we can fulfill these volumetric obligations.

We have minimum volume delivery commitments associated with agreements to reimburse connection costs to various pipelines. If we do not deliver this gas or oil, as applicable, the estimated maximum amount that would be payable under these commitments, calculated as of December 31, 2020, would be approximately $104.7 million. Of this total, we have accrued a liability of $4.3 million representing the estimated amount we will have to pay due to insufficient forecasted volumes at particular connection points. This accrual is reflected in the table above in Other long-term liabilities.

We have minimum volume water delivery commitments associated with a water services agreement, which ends in 2030, that was entered into in connection with the sale of certain water infrastructure assets in Eddy County, New Mexico (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this sale). If the water volumes are not delivered by us or third parties, the estimated maximum amount that would be payable by us under this commitment, calculated as of December 31, 2020, would be approximately $64.1 million. However, we believe no material financial commitment will be due based on our forecasted volumes of water delivery and potential delivery of water volumes by third parties.

All of the noted commitments were routine and made in the ordinary course of our business.

Taking into account current commodity prices and anticipated levels of production, we believe that our net cash flow generated from operations and our other capital resources will be adequate to meet future obligations.

59
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operation are based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We analyze and base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in facts and circumstances or additional information may result in revised estimates, and actual results may differ from these estimates.

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have identified the following policies as being of particular importance to the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations and which require the application of significant judgment by management.

Oil and Gas Reserves

The process of estimating quantities of oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring judgment and interpretation in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. The data for a given field may also change substantially over time due to numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history, and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur from time to time. Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that our reserve estimates represent the most accurate assessments possible, subjective decisions and available data for our various fields make these estimates generally less precise than other estimates included in financial statement disclosures.

At year-end 2020, 16% of our total proved reserves are categorized as proved undeveloped reserves. Our engineers review and revise these reserve estimates regularly, as new information becomes available.

We use the units-of-production method to amortize the cost associated with our oil and gas properties. Changes in estimates of reserve quantities and commodity prices will cause corresponding changes in depletion expense, or in some cases, a full cost ceiling impairment charge. See Full Cost Accounting below for further information regarding the ceiling limitation calculation. See SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES (UNAUDITED) in Item 8 for additional reserve data.

Full Cost Accounting

We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. All costs associated with property acquisition, exploration, and development activities are capitalized. Exploration and development costs include dry hole costs, geological and geophysical costs, direct overhead related to exploration and development activities, and other costs incurred for the purpose of finding oil and gas reserves. Salaries and benefits paid to employees directly involved in the acquisition, exploration, and development of properties, as well as other internal costs that can be directly identified with acquisition, exploration, and development activities, are also capitalized. Under the full cost method of accounting, no gain or loss is recognized upon the disposition of oil and gas properties unless such disposition would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to production expense in the period incurred.

Under the full cost method of accounting, we are required to perform quarterly ceiling test calculations to test our oil and gas properties for possible impairment. If the net capitalized cost of our oil and gas properties, as adjusted for income taxes, exceeds the ceiling limitation, the excess is charged to expense. The ceiling limitation is equal to the sum of: (i) the present value discounted at 10% of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, (ii) the cost of properties not being amortized, and (iii) the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproven properties included in the costs being amortized, as adjusted for income taxes. We currently do not have any unproven properties that are being amortized. Estimated future net revenues are determined based on trailing 

60
twelve-month average commodity prices and estimated proved reserve quantities, operating costs, and capital expenditures.

The quarterly ceiling test is primarily impacted by commodity prices, changes in estimated reserve quantities, reserves produced, overall exploration and development costs, depletion expense, and deferred taxes. If pricing conditions decline, or if there is a negative impact on one or more of the other components of the calculation, we may incur a full cost ceiling test impairment. The calculated ceiling limitation is not intended to be indicative of the fair market value of our proved reserves or future results. Impairment charges do not affect cash flow from operating activities, but do adversely affect our net income and various components of our balance sheet. Any impairment of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date.

Depletion of proved oil and gas properties is computed on the units-of-production method, whereby capitalized costs, including future development costs and asset retirement costs, are amortized over total estimated proved reserves. Changes in our estimate of proved reserve quantities and impairment of oil and gas properties will cause corresponding changes in depletion expense in periods subsequent to these changes.

The capitalized costs of unproved properties, including those in wells in progress, are excluded from the costs being amortized. We do not have major development projects that are excluded from costs being amortized. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate excluded costs for inclusion in the costs to be amortized. Significant unproved properties are evaluated individually. Unproved properties that are not considered individually significant are aggregated for evaluation purposes and related costs are transferred to the costs to be amortized quarterly based on the application of historical factors.

Income Taxes

Our oil and gas exploration and production operations are subject to taxation on income in numerous jurisdictions. We record deferred tax assets and liabilities to account for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements and our tax returns. We routinely assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Numerous judgments and assumptions are inherent in this assessment, including the determination of future taxable income, which is affected by factors such as future operating conditions (particularly as related to prevailing oil and gas prices) and changing tax laws. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, the tax asset would be reduced by a valuation allowance.

We regularly assess and, if required, establish accruals for tax contingencies that could result from assessments of additional tax by taxing jurisdictions where the company operates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our income taxes.

61
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK