SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

Form 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

DATE OF REPORT – February 16, 2018 

(Date of earliest event reported) 

honeywell international inc. 

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 115 TABOR ROAD, MORRIS PLAINS, NEW JERSEY   07950 

 (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)  

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (973) 455-2000 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

o Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

o Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company o 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o 

 Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. 

364-Day Credit Agreement 

On February 16, 2018, Honeywell International Inc. (“Honeywell”) entered into a $1.5 billion 364-Day Credit Agreement (the “364-Day Credit Agreement”) with the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Citibank, N.A. and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as documentation agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers. 

The 364-Day Credit Agreement is maintained for general corporate purposes. Amounts borrowed under the 364-Day Credit Agreement are required to be repaid no later than February 15, 2019, unless termination occurs earlier pursuant to the terms of the 364-Day Credit Agreement. The 364-Day Credit Agreement does not restrict Honeywell’s ability to pay dividends, nor does it contain financial covenants. The failure to comply with customary conditions or the occurrence of customary events of default contained in the 364-Day Credit Agreement would prevent any further borrowings and would generally require the repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the 364-Day Credit Agreement. Such events of default include, among other things, (a) non-payment of 364-Day Credit Agreement debt, interest or fees; (b) non-compliance with the terms of the 364-Day Credit Agreement covenants; (c) cross-default with other debt in certain circumstances; (d) bankruptcy or insolvency; and (e) defaults on certain obligations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Additionally, each of the lenders has the right to terminate its commitment to lend additional funds under the 364-Day Credit Agreement if any person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 30 percent or more of Honeywell’s voting stock, or, during any 12-month period, individuals who were directors of Honeywell at the beginning of the period cease to constitute a majority of the board of directors, except to the extent individuals who at the beginning of such twelve month period were replaced by individuals (x) whose election or nomination to the board of directors was approved by a majority of remaining members of the board of directors at the time of such election or nomination or (y) who were nominated by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors at the time of such election or nomination and subsequently elected as directors by shareholders of the Company. 

At Honeywell’s option, advances under the 364-Day Credit Agreement would be (1) denominated in U.S. Dollars and would bear interest at the Base Rate (as defined below) plus the Applicable Margin (as defined in the 364-Day Credit Agreement) minus 1.0% or (2) denominated in U.S. Dollars or in Euros and would bear interest at the Eurocurrency Rate (defined as reserve-adjusted LIBOR or EURIBOR, as applicable), plus the Applicable Margin. Base Rate is the highest of (a) the rate of interest announced publicly by JPMorgan in New York, New York, from time to time, as JPMorgan’s base rate, (b) 0.5% above the federal funds rate and (c) LIBOR for a one month period (subject to a floor of zero) plus 1.00%. The Applicable Margin is based on Honeywell’s credit default swap mid-rate spread subject to a floor and a cap based on Honeywell’s debt rating. 

Honeywell has agreed to pay a commitment fee on the aggregate unused commitment for the 364-Day Credit Agreement, based upon a grid determined by reference to Honeywell’s non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt rating (the “Public Debt Rating”), in an amount equal to 0.030% per annum if Honeywell maintains its Public Debt Rating at a level of at least A+ by Standard & Poor’s, a Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC business (“Standard & Poor’s”), or A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) (“Level 1”), with a step-up to 0.040% per annum if Honeywell’s Public Debt Rating level is lower than Level 1 but at least A by Standard & Poor’s or A2 by Moody’s (“Level 2”) and a further step-up to 0.060% per annum if Honeywell’s Public Debt Rating level falls below Level 2. The 364-Day Credit Agreement is not subject to termination based upon a decrease in Honeywell’s debt ratings or as a result of a Material Adverse Change (as defined in the 364-Day Credit Agreement). 

The foregoing description of the 364-Day Credit Agreement is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 364-Day Credit Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. 

 Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant. 

The information set forth under Item 1.01 above regarding the 364-Day Credit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference. 

 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

(d) Exhibits. 

The following exhibit is filed as part of this report: 

 Exhibit #   Description 

 10.1    

364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2018, among Honeywell International Inc., the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Citibank, N.A., Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as documentation agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as joint lead arrangers and co-book managers. 

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]