EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

Investor Relations:  

Jess Lubert  

Juniper Networks  

(408) 936-3734  

jlubert@juniper.net  

Media Relations:  

Leslie Moore  

Juniper Networks  

(408) 936-5767  

llmoore@juniper.net  

JUNIPER NETWORKS REPORTS PRELIMINARY FOURTH QUARTER AND FISCAL YEAR 2017  

FINANCIAL RESULTS  

SUNNYVALE, Calif., January 30, 2018 - Juniper Networks (NYSE: JNPR), an industry leader in automated, scalable and secure networks, today reported preliminary financial results for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and provided its outlook for the three months ending March 31, 2018.  

Fourth Quarter 2017 Financial Performance  

Net revenues were $1,239.5 million, a decrease of 11% year-over-year and 1% sequentially.  

GAAP operating margin was 16.4%, a decrease from 20.7% in the fourth quarter of 2016, and a decrease from 18.4% in the third quarter of 2017.  

Non-GAAP operating margin was 22.7%, a decrease from 26.5% in the fourth quarter of 2016, and a decrease from 23.5% in the third quarter of 2017.  

GAAP net loss was $148.1 million, a decrease of 178% year-over-year and 189% sequentially, resulting in diluted loss per share of $0.40. GAAP net loss was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which resulted in an estimated $289.5 million of tax expense.  

Non-GAAP net income was $199.4 million, a decrease of 22% year-over-year and 6% sequentially, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.53.  

Full Year 2017 Financial Performance  

Net revenues were $5,027.2 million, an increase of 1% year-over-year.  

GAAP operating margin was 16.9%, a decrease from 17.8% in fiscal year 2016.  

Non-GAAP operating margin was 22.8%, a decrease from 23.4% in fiscal year 2016.  

GAAP net income was $306.2 million, a decrease of 48% year-over-year, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.80, a decrease of 48% year-over-year. The change in GAAP net income was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which resulted in an estimated $289.5 million of tax expense.  

Non-GAAP net income was $809.0 million, flat year-over-year, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $2.11, an increase of 1% year-over-year.  

Page 1 of 11  

The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results of operations is provided in a table immediately following the Preliminary Net Revenues by Geographic Region table below.  

“We continue to lead the way in helping our customers build more automated, cost efficient, scalable networks,” said Rami Rahim, chief executive officer, Juniper Networks. “We believe strongly that we have the right product portfolio in place to win in this dynamic market.”  

Balance Sheet and Other Financial Results  

Total cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of December 31, 2017 were $4,021.0 million, compared to $3,657.3 million as of December 31, 2016, and $4,199.3 million as of September 30, 2017.  

Net cash flows provided by operations for the fourth quarter of 2017 was $214.2 million, compared to $335.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, and $201.9 million in the third quarter of 2017.  

Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable, or “DSO,” was 62 days in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to 68 days in the fourth quarter of 2016, and 52 days in the third quarter of 2017.  

Capital expenditures were $53.6 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $55.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2017.  

The Company today announced an expansion of its capital return plan. Juniper’s Board of Directors has approved a new $2 billion buyback authorization, and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share to be paid on March 22, 2018 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2018. Additional details can be found in the press release issued today at http://investor.juniper.net/investor-relations/default.aspx.  

Outlook  

These metrics are provided on a non-GAAP basis, except for revenue and share count. Earnings per share is on a fully diluted basis. The outlook assumes that the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to other currencies will remain relatively stable at current levels.  

The first quarter revenue outlook reflects ongoing deployment delays as Juniper expects its large cloud customers to continue their architectural transition, which is expected to result in below normal seasonality. The Company remains confident in its competitive position and strong relationship with these strategic customers.  

Beyond the first quarter, Juniper expects revenue to grow on a sequential basis and return to year-on-year growth by the end of the year.  

The Company expects gross margins for the quarter to remain under pressure, due to lower volume and product mix, resulting from the architectural shifts discussed above. The Company expects full year margins to improve directionally from Q1’18 levels.  

Juniper expects to manage operating expenses prudently and to increase operational efficiencies, both in the first quarter and throughout the year.  

As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Company plans to repatriate approximately $3 billion. Juniper expects the new territorial tax system to provide lower cost access to nearly all global free cash flow on an ongoing basis. The Company intends to use the repatriated cash to invest in its business, support value-enhancing M&A, and fund its return of capital to shareholders.  

Juniper’s guidance for the quarter ending March 31, 2018 is as follows:  

   •   Revenues will be approximately $1,050 million, plus or minus $30 million.  

Page 2 of 11  

   •   Non-GAAP gross margin will be approximately 58.0%, plus or minus 1.0%.  

   •   Non-GAAP operating expenses will be approximately $485 million, plus or minus $5 million.  

   •   Non-GAAP operating margin will be approximately 12.0% at the midpoint of revenue guidance.  

   •   Non-GAAP tax rate will be approximately 21.0%.  

   •   Non-GAAP net income per share will be approximately $0.25, plus or minus $0.03. This assumes a share count of approximately 360 million.  

The guidance above is provided under ASC 605. Juniper will adopt ASC 606 for Q1’18 and intends to provide a ASC 606 to 605 reconciliation when it reports Q1 results.  

All forward-looking non-GAAP measures exclude estimates for amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expenses, acquisition-related charges, restructuring charges, impairment charges, litigation settlement and resolution charges, supplier component remediation charges and recoveries, gain or loss on equity investments, retroactive impact of certain tax settlements, significant effects of tax legislation and judicial or administrative interpretation of tax regulations, including the impact of income tax reform, non-recurring income tax adjustments, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and the income tax effect of non-GAAP exclusions, and do not include the impact of any future acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures that may occur in the period. Juniper is unable to provide a reconciliation of non-GAAP guidance measures to corresponding U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP measures on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable effort due to the overall high variability and low visibility of most of the foregoing items that have been excluded. For example, share-based compensation expense is impacted by the Company’s future hiring needs, the type and volume of equity awards necessary for such future hiring, and the price at which the Company’s stock will trade in those future periods. Amortization of intangible assets is significantly impacted by the timing and size of any future acquisitions. The items that are being excluded are difficult to predict and a reconciliation could result in disclosure that would be imprecise or potentially misleading. Material changes to any one of these items could have a significant effect on our guidance and future GAAP results. Certain exclusions, such as amortization of intangible assets and share-based compensation expenses, are generally incurred each quarter, but the amounts have historically and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter.  

Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Commentary Available Online  

A CFO Commentary reviewing the Company’s fourth quarter and fiscal year 2017 financial results, as well as first quarter 2018 financial outlook will be furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K and published on the Company’s website at http://investor.juniper.net. Analysts and investors are encouraged to review this commentary prior to participating in the conference call webcast.  

Conference Call Webcast  

Juniper Networks will host a conference call webcast today, January 30, 2018, at 2:00 pm PT, to be broadcast live over the Internet at http://investor.juniper.net. To participate via telephone in the US, the toll free dial-in number is 1-877-407-8033. Outside the US, dial +1-201-689-8033. Please call 10 minutes prior to the scheduled conference call time. The webcast replay will be archived on the Juniper Networks website.  

About Juniper Networks  

Juniper Networks (NYSE: JNPR) challenges the status quo with products, solutions and services that transform the economics of networking. Our team co-innovates with our customers and partners to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, performance and value. Additional information can be found at Juniper Networks (www.juniper.net) or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.  

Page 3 of 11  

Investors and others should note that the Company announces material financial and operational information to its investors using its Investor Relations website, press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The Company also intends to use the Twitter account @JuniperNetworks and the Company’s blogs as a means of disclosing information about the Company and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The social media channels that the Company intends to use as a means of disclosing information described above may be updated from time to time as listed on the Company’s Investor Relations website.  

Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.  

Safe Harbor  

Statements in this release concerning Juniper Networks’ business outlook, economic and market outlook, including pricing pressure and product mix; our future financial and operating results; expectations with respect to our market trends; the impact of architectural transitions of cloud providers on our business; our plans to repatriate offshore cash and potential future uses of such cash; our expectations around lower cost access to our global free cash; the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business; execution of our capital return program; our future strategy; the strength of our product portfolio; our ability to expand business opportunities; our expectations around obtaining revenue and margin growth; our cost management and operating expense discipline; and our overall future prospects are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that involve a number of uncertainties and risks. Actual results or events could differ materially from those anticipated in those forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including: general economic and political conditions globally or regionally; business and economic conditions in the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending by our customers and spending by communication service providers and major customers, including Cloud providers; the network capacity requirements of our customers and, in particular, cloud and communication service providers; contractual terms that may result in the deferral of revenue; increases in and the effect of competition; the timing of orders and their fulfillment; manufacturing and supply chain constraints, changes or disruptions; availability of key product components; ability to establish and maintain relationships with distributors, resellers and other partners; variations in the expected mix of products sold; changes in customer mix; changes in geography mix; customer and industry analyst perceptions of Juniper Networks and its technology, products and future prospects; delays in scheduled product availability; market acceptance of Juniper Networks products and services; rapid technological and market change; adoption of regulations or standards affecting Juniper Networks products, services or the networking industry; the ability to successfully acquire, integrate and manage businesses and technologies; product defects, returns or vulnerabilities; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; significant effects of tax legislation and judicial or administrative interpretation of tax regulations, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; currency fluctuations; litigation settlements and resolutions; the potential impact of activities related to the execution of capital return, restructurings and product rationalization; and other factors listed in Juniper Networks’ most recent report on Form 10-Q or 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Note that our estimates as to tax rate and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our business are based on current tax law, including current interpretations of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and could be affected by changing interpretations of the Act, as well as additional legislation and guidance around the Act. All statements made in this press release are made only as of the date set forth at the beginning of this release. Juniper Networks undertakes no obligation to update the information made in this release in the event facts or circumstances subsequently change after the date of this press release.  

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information  

Juniper Networks believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial information provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the company’s financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding why Juniper Networks believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors, the specific manner in which management uses these measures, and some of the limitations associated with the use of these measures, please refer to the “Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section of this press release. The following tables and reconciliations can also be found on our Investor Relations website at http://investor.juniper.net.  

Page 4 of 11  

Juniper Networks, Inc.  

Preliminary Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations  

(in millions, except per share amounts)  

(unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Page 5 of 11  

Juniper Networks, Inc.  

Preliminary Net Revenues by Product and Service  

(in millions)  

(unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Juniper Networks, Inc.  

Preliminary Net Revenues by Vertical  

(in millions)  

(unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Juniper Networks, Inc.  

Preliminary Net Revenues by Geographic Region  

(in millions)  

(unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Page 6 of 11  

Juniper Networks, Inc.  

Preliminary Reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP Financial Measures  

(in millions, except percentages and per share amounts)  

(unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Page 7 of 11  

Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

This press release, including the tables above, includes the following non-GAAP financial measures derived from our Preliminary Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: operating income; operating margin; net income; and diluted net income per share. These measures are not presented in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for GAAP. In addition, these measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures used in the table above should not be considered in isolation from measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investors are cautioned that there are material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures as an analytical tool. In particular, certain of the adjustments to our GAAP financial measures reflect the exclusion of items that are recurring and will be reflected in our financial results for the foreseeable future.  

We utilize a number of different financial measures, both GAAP and non-GAAP, in analyzing and assessing the overall performance of our business, in making operating decisions, forecasting and planning for future periods, and determining payments under compensation programs. We consider the use of the non-GAAP measures presented above to be helpful in assessing the performance of the continuing operation of our business. By continuing operation, we mean the ongoing revenue and expenses of the business, excluding certain items that render comparisons with prior periods or analysis of on-going operating trends more difficult, such as expenses not directly related to the actual cash costs of development, sale, delivery or support of our products and services, or expenses that are reflected in periods unrelated to when the actual amounts were incurred or paid. Consistent with this approach, we believe that disclosing non-GAAP financial measures to the readers of our financial statements provides such readers with useful supplemental data that, while not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, allows for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance. In addition, we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community and believe that continuing to provide non-GAAP measures provides investors with a tool for comparing results over time. In assessing the overall health of our business for the periods covered by the table above and, in particular, in evaluating the financial line items presented in the table above, we have excluded items in the following three general categories, each of which are described below: Acquisition-Related Charges, Other Items, and Share-Based Compensation Related Items. We also provide additional detail below regarding the shares used to calculate our non-GAAP net income per share. Notes identified for line items in the table above correspond to the appropriate note description below. With respect to the items excluded from our forward-looking non-GAAP measures and reconciliation of such measures, please see the “Outlook” section above.  

Note A: Acquisition-Related Charges. We exclude certain expense items resulting from acquisitions including amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. The amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions results in our recording expenses in our GAAP financial statements that were already expensed by the acquired company before the acquisition and for which we have not expended cash. Moreover, had we internally developed the products acquired, the amortization of intangible assets, and the expenses of uncompleted research and development would have been expensed in prior periods. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period without regard to such expenses. In addition, acquisitions result in non-continuing operating expenses, which would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our business operations. We believe that providing non-GAAP information for acquisition-related expense items in addition to the corresponding GAAP information allows the users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historic and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to less acquisitive peer companies.  

Note B: Other Items. We exclude certain other items that are the result of either unique or unplanned events, including the following, when applicable: (i) restructuring charges; (ii) litigation settlement charges; (iii) supplier component remediation recovery or charges; (iv) gain or loss on equity investments; (v) significant effects of tax legislation and judicial or administrative interpretation of tax regulations, including the impact of income tax reform; (vi) the income tax effect on our financial statements of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures. It is difficult to estimate the amount or timing of these items in advance. Although these events are reflected in our GAAP financial statements, these unique transactions may limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. Restructuring charges result from events that arise from unforeseen circumstances, which often occur outside of the ordinary course of continuing operations. These expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of  

Page 8 of 11  

 our continuing business operations for the period in which they are incurred. In the case of legal settlements, these gains or losses are recorded in the period in which the matter is concluded or resolved even though the subject matter of the underlying dispute may relate to multiple or different periods. As such, we believe that these expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations for the period in which they are incurred. Additionally, supplier component remediation recovery and charges are directly related to an event that is distinct and does not reflect normal business operations. Whether we realize gains or losses on equity investments is based primarily on the performance and market value of those independent companies. Accordingly, we believe that these gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations. Additionally, the impact of certain income tax reform, including the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and the deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings, are unique events that occur in periods that are generally unrelated to the level of business activity to which such tax reform or legislation applies. We believe this limits comparability with prior periods and that these expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our continuing business operations for the period in which they are incurred. We also believe providing financial information with and without the income tax effect of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures provide our management and users of the financial statements with better clarity regarding the on-going performance and future liquidity of our business. Because of these factors, we assess our operating performance with these amounts both included and excluded, and by providing this information, we believe the users of our financial statements are better able to understand the financial results of what we consider our continuing operations.  

Note C: Share-Based Compensation Related Items. We provide non-GAAP information relative to our expense for share-based compensation and related payroll tax. Due to the varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types, which affect the calculations of share-based compensation, we believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation and related payroll tax allows for more accurate comparisons of our operating results to our peer companies and is useful to investors to understand the impact of share-based compensation to our results of operations. Further, expense associated with granting share-based awards does not reflect any cash expenditures by the company as no cash is expended.  

Note D: Non-GAAP Net Income Per Share Items. We provide diluted non-GAAP net income per share. The diluted non-GAAP net income per share includes additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.  

Page 9 of 11  

Juniper Networks, Inc.  

Preliminary Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets  

(in millions)  

(unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Page 10 of 11  

Juniper Networks, Inc.  

Preliminary Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

(in millions)  

(unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (*)  During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company adopted the new accounting pronouncement on Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, requiring excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company applied this provision on a retrospective basis. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company reclassified $6.7 million of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation to operating activities from financing activities. In addition, certain other amounts for the year ended December 31, 2016 have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.  

Page 11 of 11