8-K    

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report: February 9, 2018  

(Date of earliest event reported)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):  

 ☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  

    PG&E Corporation      ☐    

    Pacific Gas and Electric Company      ☐     

Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition  

On February 9, 2018, PG&E Corporation will post on its website an earnings announcement disclosing its financial results and the financial results of its subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (“Utility”), for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2017. The earnings announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. PG&E Corporation also will hold a webcast conference call to discuss financial results and management’s business outlook. The earnings announcement contains information about how to access the webcast. The slide presentation, which includes supplemental information relating to PG&E Corporation and the Utility, will be used by management during the webcast and is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report. The Exhibits will be posted on PG&E Corporation’s website at http://investor.pgecorp.com.  

The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished, and shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”).  

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure  

Exhibits  

The information included in the Exhibits to this report is incorporated by reference in response to this Item 7.01, is being “furnished” and shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act.  

Public Dissemination of Certain Information  

PG&E Corporation and the Utility routinely provide links to the Utility’s principal regulatory proceedings with the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) at http://investor.pgecorp.com, under the “Regulatory Filings” tab, so that such filings are available to investors upon filing with the relevant agency. It is possible that these regulatory filings or information included therein could be deemed to be material information. PG&E Corporation and the Utility also routinely post or provide direct links to presentations, documents, and other information that may be of interest to investors at http://investor.pgecorp.com, under the “News & Events: Events & Presentations” tab, in order to publicly disseminate such information. The information contained on such websites is not part of this or any other report that PG&E Corporation or the Utility files with, or furnishes to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits  

Exhibits  

The following Exhibits are being furnished, and are not deemed to be filed:  

 Exhibit 99.1   PG&E Corporation earnings announcement dated February 9, 2018  

 Exhibit 99.2   Slide presentation relating to webcast conference call   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]