UNITED STATES

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT

 Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)

 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report: February 23, 2018

 (Date of earliest event reported) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): 

☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

☐ Soliciting Material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company PG&E Corporation ☐ 

Emerging growth company Pacific Gas and Electric Company ☐ 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 

Emerging growth company PG&E Corporation ☐ 

Emerging growth company Pacific Gas and Electric Company ☐ 

Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement 

On February 23, 2018, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (the “Utility”) obtained a $250 million unsecured term loan (the “Term Loan”) under a loan agreement (the “Term Loan Agreement”) with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (“BTMU”) and U.S. Bank National Association, as lenders (in such capacity, “Lenders”), joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners and BTMU, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the “Administrative Agent” ). The Utility plans to use the loan proceeds for general corporate purposes. 

The Term Loan matures on February 22, 2019. The Term Loan will bear interest based, at the Utility’s election, on (1) LIBOR plus an applicable margin or (2) ABR plus an applicable margin. ABR will equal the highest of the following: the Administrative Agent’s announced base rate, 0.5% above the overnight federal funds rate, and the one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for LIBOR loans is 0.60%. The applicable margin for ABR loans is the greater of (1) zero and (2) 1% less than the applicable margin for LIBOR loans. 

The Term Loan Agreement includes usual and customary covenants for loan agreements of this type, including covenants limiting: (1) liens to those permitted under the Utility’s senior bond indenture, (2) mergers, (3) sales of all or substantially all of the Utility’s assets, and (4) other fundamental changes. In addition, the Term Loan Agreement requires that the Utility maintain a ratio of total consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization of not more than 0.65 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal quarter. 

In the event of a default by the Utility under the Term Loan Agreement, including cross-defaults relating to specified other debt of the Utility or any of its significant subsidiaries in excess of $200 million, the Administrative Agent may, with the consent of the required Lenders (or upon the request of the required Lenders, shall), declare the amounts outstanding under the Term Loan Agreement, including all accrued interest, payable immediately. For events of default relating to insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership, the amounts outstanding under the Term Loan Agreement become payable immediately. 

The foregoing description of the Term Loan Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Term Loan Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein. 

The Lenders and/or their affiliates have in the past provided, and may in the future provide, investment banking, underwriting, lending, commercial banking and other advisory services to the Utility. The Lenders have received, and may in the future receive, customary compensation from the Utility for such services. 

Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant 

The information set forth above in Item 1.01 regarding the Term Loan and the Term Loan Agreement is hereby incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference. 

Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits  

(d) Exhibits. 

  Exhibit

 No.  Description 

 10.1 Term Loan Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2018, by and among Pacific Gas and Electric Company, the several banks and other financial institutions or entities from time to time parties thereto, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and U.S. Bank National Association, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd, as administrative agent.  

   SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]