Exhibit 99.1

 Fortune Brands Reports Strong Sales and Profit Growth in 4Q and Full Year 2020; Provides 2021 Annual Outlook for Continued Leading Growth  

 Highlights from operations:     Share gains and exceptional operational performance in a fundamentally strong end market drove market beating growth across the Company   4Q & Full-Year 2020 sales increased approximately 13 percent and 6 percent, to $1.7 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively, year-over-year    4Q & Full-Year 2020 EPS increased to $1.16 and $3.94 per share; EPS before charges / gains increased 25 percent and 16 percent to $1.25 and $4.19, respectively, year-over-year   Company introduces 2021 financial outlook, driven by a solid, long-term outlook for housing, continued share gains and margin expansion     

DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 2, 2021--Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. (NYSE: FBHS, the “Company”, or “Fortune Brands”), an industry-leading home and security products company, today announced fourth quarter and full-year 2020 results.  

 “Strong fourth quarter results capped a remarkable 2020 performance by our teams,” said Nicholas Fink, chief executive officer, Fortune Brands. “Facing unprecedented challenges, we delivered above-market growth and margin acceleration and positioned our Company to continue to deliver share gains and margin improvement in 2021 and beyond. This past year demonstrated that our leading brands and channel positions and differentiated business model produce exceptional results in a variety of demand environments. Importantly, our teams’ ability to execute and remain nimble allows us to capitalize on an increasing set of growth and margin opportunities. Our tireless commitment to serving our customers, keeping people safe and our overall culture of excellence has driven our results. Moving forward, we are well positioned to leverage our Fortune Brands advantaged capabilities across our portfolio to create even more value for all stakeholders.”  

 Fourth Quarter 2020  

 For the fourth quarter of 2020, sales were $1.7 billion, an increase of 13 percent over the fourth quarter of 2019. Earnings per share were $1.16, compared to $0.74 in the prior-year quarter. EPS before charges / gains were $1.25, compared to $1.00 the same quarter last year, an increase of 25 percent. Operating income was $233.2 million, compared to $192.5 million in the prior-year quarter. Operating income before charges / gains was $246.4 million, compared to $206.8 million the same quarter last year, up 19 percent. Operating margin was 14.1 percent, compared to 13.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2019. Operating margin before charges / gains was 14.8 percent, up 70 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2019.  

 For each segment in the fourth quarter of 2020, compared to the prior-year quarter:    Plumbing sales increased 16 percent, or 15 percent excluding FX, led by strong performance across the business. Operating margin before charges / gains remained strong at 21.8 percent.   Cabinet sales increased 11 percent, driven by growth across products at all price points. Operating margin before charges / gains was 11.6 percent, an increase of 150 basis points.   Outdoors & Security sales increased 11 percent, driven by strong double-digit sales growth of composite decking and doors. Operating margin before charges / gains was 15.8 percent, an increase of 90 basis points.   

 Full Year 2020   

 For the full year 2020, sales were approximately $6.1 billion, an increase of approximately 6 percent over 2019. Earnings per share were $3.94 compared to $3.06 in the prior year, and EPS before charges / gains were $4.19 versus $3.60 last year, an increase of 16 percent. Operating income was $801.4 million, compared to $698.5 million in the prior year. Operating income before charges / gains was $857.1 million, compared to $764.0 million during the previous year, up 12 percent. Operating margin was 13.2 percent, compared to 12.1 percent in 2019. Operating margin before charges / gains was 14.1 percent, up 80 basis points over full year 2019.  

 “We have used the challenges presented by 2020 to improve the focus and productivity of our business, positioning it for accelerated growth and profitability going forward,” stated Patrick Hallinan, chief financial officer, Fortune Brands. “The efficiency programs undertaken in 2020 have put us ahead of our margin improvement timeline, and we expect to continue toward our goals during 2021. While there may be instances of macro uncertainty and cost inflation in the year ahead, these challenges have been anticipated, and we expect to manage them effectively – as we have in 2020 and in preceding years. We expect another year of strong free cash flow generation in 2021. In 2020, we deployed over $1 billion in M&A, share repurchases, and dividends. We remain laser-focused on driving further value by deploying capital to drive organic growth, M&A, strategic partnerships, and returning excess capital to shareholders.”  

 LARSON Acquisition  

 On November 17, 2020, the Company announced it was acquiring LARSON Manufacturing (“LARSON”), the North American market leading brand of storm, screen and security doors for approximately $660 million, net of expected tax benefits but before closing adjustments. On December 14, 2020, the transaction was closed, and LARSON officially joined the Outdoors & Security segment.  

 Balance Sheet and Liquidity  

 At the end of the quarter, net debt was $2.2 billion and net debt to EBITDA was 2.1x. The Company had $419 million in cash and $865 million of availability under its revolving credit agreements. The total outstanding on both the Company’s original $1.25 billion and supplemental $400 million revolving credit facilities was approximately $785 million at the end of the fourth quarter.  

 Annual Outlook for 2021   

 The Company expects full-year 2021 sales growth in the range of 12.5 percent to 14.5 percent, or 5.5 percent to 7.5 percent excluding the LARSON acquisition, based on the Company’s assumption of a total global market expanding by 5 percent to 7 percent, including growth in the U.S. home products market of approximately 5 percent to 7 percent.  

 The Company expects EPS before charges / gains to be in the range of $4.85 to $5.05.  

 For 2021, the Company expects to generate free cash flow of approximately $600 to $650 million.  

 “Our key housing markets are entering a period of long-term expansion,” said Fink. “The current environment has accelerated trends already in place prior to the pandemic and there is renewed consumer focus on the value and role of the home. Our consumers desire larger, multifunctional spaces to combine work, education, and entertainment within the home as well as expanded outdoor living spaces. Demographic forces, combined with very healthy homeowner balance sheets, are driving accelerated activity in the housing industry. Our innovation, leading brands, and premier channel positions, across new construction and repair & remodel, are creating significant opportunities and value for our Company and our stakeholders. With our excellent momentum, strong balance sheet, and advantaged Fortune Brands capabilities, we are very excited about the opportunity to accelerate stakeholder value creation in 2021 and beyond.”  

 About Fortune Brands  

 Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. (NYSE: FBHS), headquartered in Deerfield, IL., is a Fortune 500 company, part of the S&P 500 Index and a leader in the home products industry. With trusted brands and market leadership positions in each of its three operating segments, Plumbing, Outdoors & Security, and Cabinets, Fortune Brands’ 27,000 associates work with a purpose to fulfill the dreams of home.  

 The Company’s growing portfolio of complementary businesses and innovative brands include Moen and the House of Rohl within the Global Plumbing Group; outdoor living and security products from Therma-Tru, LARSON, Fiberon, Master Lock and SentrySafe; and MasterBrand Cabinets’ wide-ranging offerings from Mantra, Diamond, Omega and many more. Visit www.FBHS.com to learn more about FBHS, its brands and how the Company is accelerating its environmental, social and governance (ESG) commitments.  

 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

 This press release contains certain “forward-looking statements” regarding general business strategies, market potential, future financial performance, the potential of our brands and the housing market, and other matters. Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believes”, “positioned”, “expects”, “estimates”, “plans”, “look to”, “outlook”, and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will”, “should”, “would”, “may” and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of our management. Although we believe that these statements are based on reasonable assumptions, they are subject to numerous factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those indicated in such statements. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from management’s expectations, or could affect the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic goals, include the uncertainties relating to the impact of COVID-19 on the Company’s business, operations and employees and the other factors discussed in our securities filings, including in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020, and September 30, 2020, all filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this release are made as of the date hereof, and except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, amend or clarify any forward-looking statements to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release.  

 Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information  

 This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), such as diluted earnings per share before charges / gains, operating income before charges / gains, sales excluding impact of FX, operating margin before charges / gains, net debt, net debt to EBITDA before charges / gains and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliations of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the Company’s use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.  

 Source: Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc.  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   Definitions of Terms: Non-GAAP Measures            

   (a) Operating income before charges/gains is operating income derived in accordance with GAAP excluding restructuring and other charges and asset impairment charges. Operating income before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the returns generated by the Company and its business segments. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.    

   (b) Diluted EPS before charges/gains is net income less noncontrolling interests calculated on a diluted per-share basis excluding restructuring and other charges, asset impairment charges, gains on equity investments, amortization of differences between equity investment and the carrying value of equity, actuarial losses associated with our defined benefit plans and tax items. Diluted EPS before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the Company and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.    

   (c) EBITDA before charges/gains is net income derived in accordance with GAAP excluding depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and other charges, interest expense, asset impairment charges, equity in losses of affiliate, gains on equity investments, defined benefit plan actuarial losses and income taxes. EBITDA before charges/gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to assess returns generated by the Company. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information about the Company's ability to fund internal growth, make acquisitions and repay debt and related interest. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.    

   (d) Asset impairment charges for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 represent pre-tax impairment charges of $22.5 million related to indefinite-lived tradenames in our Cabinets and Plumbing segments. Asset impairment charges for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2019 represent a pre-tax impairment of $12.0 million and $29.5 million, respectively, related to indefinite-lived tradenames in our Cabinets segment. It also includes a $1.7 million fair value asset impairment expense classified in cost of products sold, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 associated with an idle manufacturing facility in our Outdoors & Security segment.    

   (e) Gains on equity investments for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 represents gains related to our 2020 investments in Flo Technologies.    

   Definitions of Terms: GAAP Measures              

   In December 2020, we acquired Larson Manufacturing ("Larson"), the North American market leading brand of storm, screen and security doors. Larson also sells related outdoor living products including retractable screens and porch windows. The Company completed the acquisition for a total purchase price of approximately $715.2 million, net of cash acquired, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We financed the transaction with cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The financial results of Larson were included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2020. Larson's net sales, operating income and cash flows from the date of acquisition to December 31, 2020 were not material to the Company. The results of operations are included in the Outdoors & Security segment.    

Contacts 

 INVESTORS and MEDIA: 

 Matthew Skelly 

 847-484-4573 

 Investor.Questions@FBHS.com