Document

Exhibit 99.1

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 

Lam Research Corporation Reports Financial Results for the Quarter Ended December 27, 2020 

FREMONT, Calif., January 27, 2021 - Lam Research Corporation (the "Company," "Lam," "Lam Research") today announced financial results for the quarter ended December 27, 2020 (the “December 2020 quarter”). 

Highlights for the December 2020 quarter were as follows:

•Revenue of $3.46 billion.

•U.S. GAAP gross margin of 46.4%, U.S. GAAP operating income as a percentage of revenue of 29.2%, and U.S. GAAP diluted EPS of $5.96.

•Non-GAAP gross margin of 46.6%, non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of revenue of 30.3%, and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $6.03.

Key Financial Data for the Quarters Ended 

December 27, 2020 and September 27, 2020 

(in thousands, except per-share data, percentages, and basis points) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

U.S. GAAP Financial Results

For the December 2020 quarter, revenue was $3,456 million, gross margin was $1,604 million, or 46.4% of revenue, operating expenses were $594 million, operating income was 29.2% of revenue, and net income was $869 million, or $5.96 per diluted share on a U.S. GAAP basis. This compares to revenue of $3,177 million, gross margin of $1,506 million, or 47.4% of revenue, operating expenses of $545 million, operating income of 30.2% of revenue, and net income of $823 million, or $5.59 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 27, 2020 (the “September 2020 quarter”). 

Non-GAAP Financial Results

For the December 2020 quarter, non-GAAP gross margin was $1,611 million, or 46.6% of revenue, non-GAAP operating expenses were $563 million, non-GAAP operating income was 30.3% of revenue, and non-GAAP net income was $880 million, or $6.03 per diluted share. This compares to non-GAAP gross margin of $1,511 million, or 47.5% of revenue, non-GAAP operating expenses of $523 million, non-GAAP operating income of 31.1% of revenue, and non-GAAP net income of $835 million, or $5.67 per diluted share, for the September 2020 quarter.

“Lam’s December quarter closed out the most successful year in our 40-year history,” said Tim Archer, Lam Research’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “In calendar 2020, our global teams displayed resiliency amid the pandemic, leading the company to set new financial records and deliver ground-breaking new products that enable key technology advances. With strong secular demand for semiconductors driving increased wafer fabrication equipment spending, Lam enters 2021 with solid momentum for continued growth and expanded leadership across our markets.”

Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Results

Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances decreased to $6.3 billion at the end of the December 2020 quarter compared to $6.9 billion at the end of the September 2020 quarter. This decrease was primarily the result of $723.3 million of share repurchases, including net share settlement of employee stock-based compensation; $187.9 million of dividends paid to stockholders; and $92.1 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by $344.6 million of cash generated from operating activities. 

Revenue 

The geographic distribution of revenue during the December 2020 quarter is shown in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table presents revenue disaggregated between system and customer support-related revenue:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

System revenue includes sales of new leading-edge equipment in deposition, etch and clean markets.

Customer support-related revenue includes sales of customer service, spares, upgrades, and non-leading-edge equipment from our Reliant product line.

Outlook 

For the quarter ended March 28, 2021, Lam is providing the following guidance:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The information provided above is only an estimate of what the Company believes is realizable as of the date of this release and does not incorporate the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring, balance sheet valuation adjustments, financing arrangements, other investments, or other significant arrangements that may be completed after the date of this release. U.S. GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling items provided include only those items that are known and can be estimated as of the date of this release. Actual results will vary from this model and the variations may be material. Reconciling items included above are as follows:

•Gross margin as a percentage of revenue - amortization related to intangible assets acquired through business combinations, $1 million.

•Operating income as a percentage of revenue - amortization related to intangible assets acquired through business combinations, $13 million.

•Net income per diluted share - amortization related to intangible assets acquired though business combinations, $13 million; amortization of note discounts, $1 million; and associated tax benefit for non-GAAP items ($2 million); totaling $12 million.

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Results

In addition to U.S. GAAP results, this press release also contains non-GAAP financial results. The Company’s non-GAAP results for both the December 2020 and September 2020 quarters exclude amortization related to intangible assets acquired through business combinations, the effects of elective deferred compensation-related assets and liabilities, amortization of note discounts, and the income tax benefit of non-GAAP items. 

Management uses non-GAAP gross margin, operating expense, operating income, operating income as a percentage of revenue, net income, and net income per diluted share to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial results. The Company believes the presentation of non-GAAP results is useful to investors for analyzing business trends and comparing performance to prior periods, along with enhancing investors’ ability to view the Company’s results from management’s perspective. Tables presenting reconciliations of non-GAAP results to U.S. GAAP results are included at the end of this press release and on the Company’s website at http://investor.lamresearch.com.

Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Statements made in this press release that are not of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate to, but are not limited to: our outlook and guidance for future financial results, including revenue, gross margins, operating income and net income; the ability of our products to enable technology advances; the strength of secular demand for semiconductors and its impact on wafer fabrication equipment spending; and our momentum for continued growth and expanded leadership across our markets. Some factors that may affect these forward-looking statements include: the severity, magnitude and duration of the COVID–19 pandemic (and the related governmental, public health, business and community responses to it), and their impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition, are evolving and are highly uncertain and unpredictable; business, political and/or regulatory conditions in the consumer electronics industry, the semiconductor industry and the overall economy may deteriorate or change; the actions of our customers and competitors may be inconsistent with our expectations; trade regulations, export controls, and trade disputes may inhibit our ability to sell our products; and widespread outbreaks of illness may impact our operations and revenue in affected areas; as well as the other risks and uncertainties that are described in the documents filed or furnished by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically the Risk Factors described in our annual report on Form 10–K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2020 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 27, 2020. These uncertainties and changes could materially affect the forward-looking statements and cause actual results to vary from expectations in a material way. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this release.

Lam Research Corporation is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. As a trusted, collaborative partner to the world’s leading semiconductor companies, we combine superior systems engineering capability, technology leadership, and unwavering commitment to customer success to accelerate innovation through enhanced device performance. In fact, today, nearly every advanced chip is built with Lam technology. Lam Research (Nasdaq: LRCX) is a FORTUNE 500® company headquartered in Fremont, Calif., with operations around the globe. Learn more at www.lamresearch.com. (LRCX-F)

Consolidated Financial Tables Follow.

 ###

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in thousands, except per share data and percentages)

(unaudited) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Derived from audited financial statements.

(2)Common shares issued and outstanding were 143,205 as of December 27, 2020, 144,593 as of September 27, 2020, and 145,331 as of June 28, 2020.

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands, unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-GAAP Financial Summary

(in thousands, except percentages and per share data) 

(unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income

(in thousands, except per share data) 

(unaudited) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Operating Income to Non-GAAP Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Operating Income

(in thousands, except percentages)

(unaudited) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Lam Research Corporation Contacts:

Tina Correia, Investor Relations, phone: 510-572-1615, e-mail: investor.relations@lamresearch.com