xml version="1.0" ? oks-20210217

0001039684false00010396842021-02-172021-02-17

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)February 17, 2021

ONEOK, Inc. 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

100 West Fifth Street; Tulsa, OK 

(Address of principal executive offices)

74103 

(Zip code)

(918) 588-7000 

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Not Applicable

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

☐ Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter).

Emerging growth company ☐ 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.☐ 

Item 5.02Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers

2020 SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS 

The purpose of our shareholder approved Annual Officer Incentive Plan (“AOIP”) is to align the named executive officers’ interests with shareholders’ interests by providing them with a financial incentive tied directly to key measures of our financial and operational performance. The 2020 short-term incentive measures, performance goals and weightings under our AOIP were developed and recommended to the Executive Compensation Committee (the “Committee”) by executive management, were reviewed and approved by the Committee, and were then recommended to, and approved by our Board of Directors in February 2020. The same short-term incentive measures, performance goals and weightings are applicable to non-officer employees under our Annual Employee Incentive Plan (“AEIP”) to promote further alignment of interests throughout the Company.

As approved in February 2020 under the AOIP, and as applied to the AEIP (collectively the “STIP”), the short-term incentive measures, performance goals and weightings are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2

Late in the first quarter 2020, after the approval of our short-term incentive measures, performance goals and weightings, the energy industry experienced historic events that led to a simultaneous demand and supply disruption. The World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic and recommended containment and mitigation measures worldwide, which contributed to a massive economic slowdown and decreased demand for crude oil. In addition, Saudi Arabia and Russia increased production of crude oil as the two countries competed for market share. As a result, the global supply of crude oil significantly exceeded demand and led to a collapse in crude oil prices. Crude oil prices and the related impact on crude oil drilling impacts our business due to associated natural gas, which is natural gas produced by oil wells. Associated natural gas contains NGLs. The decline of crude oil prices resulted in crude oil and associated natural gas and NGLs production being curtailed in the second quarter 2020. 

These events (collectively “COVID-19 related events”), wholly outside of the Company’s control, rendered our 2020 financial performance measures, DCF Per Share and ROIC, unattainable and resulted in 0% being earned toward the corporate performance multiplier for these measures. At year-end, our 2020 TRIR operational performance measure was 0.69, which did not reach the threshold required for a payout. This is partially attributable to an increase in slip, trip and fall injuries for operations employees. As a result, 0% was earned toward the corporate performance multiplier from this measure. Our 2020 AREER operational performance measure was 0.42, which was better than the maximum. As a result, 20% was earned toward the corporate performance multiplier from this measure.

As more fully described below, the Committee exercised its discretion, as authorized under the STIP, which resulted in a corresponding recommendation to increase payouts to officers and all employees in the additional amount of 20% guided by a qualitative evaluation of the Company’s 2020 performance in responding to the direct and indirect impacts of COVID-19 related events. Such discretionary payout of 20% plus the AREER payout of 20% resulted in an overall 40% corporate performance multiplier, which was subsequently recommended to, and approved by our Board of Directors.

To determine the 2020 short-term incentive awards payable to each of our named executive officers, the 40% corporate performance multiplier was multiplied by the named executive officer’s base salary at December 31, 2020, times the named executive officer’s individual short-term incentive target, times the named executive officer’s individual performance multiplier. An individual performance multiplier may range from zero to 125%. The individual performance multiplier percentage is approved by the Committee annually, taking into consideration management’s recommendation regarding individual performance and contribution.

The annual calculation for our named executive officers is shown below:

3

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Exercise of Discretion as Authorized Under the STIP

Under the STIP, the Committee has express authority to make discretionary adjustments and interpretations as it determines to be appropriate, including the modification of goals and performance measures. The exercise of such discretion may result in a corresponding recommendation to change payouts under the STIP.

Considering COVID-19 related events, the Committee continued throughout the year to monitor the STIP, with the assistance of, and through communications with, its independent compensation consultant and management.

At the Committee’s July 2020 meeting, management reported that a payout under the STIP’s financial performance measures was unlikely. Nevertheless, management reported that the Company had prioritized the safe operation of its assets and the health and safety of its employees; maintained high levels of productivity despite the pandemic and related challenges; stated the Company had no employee layoffs or furloughs and did not anticipate any; had not reduced the dividend payable to shareholders and did not anticipate doing so; and had taken a number of proactive measures to improve its financial flexibility and strengthen its balance sheet by refinancing debt, issuing equity and curtailing a significant portion of planned capital expenditures. 

At that time, in consultation with the Committee’s independent compensation consultant, the Committee began discussing potential alternatives for addressing the financial performance measures that were unlikely to payout under the STIP, which reflect 80% of the weighting, in order to continue to retain and motivate employees as they helped navigate a challenging year. Such alternatives included, but were not limited to, taking no action; modifying or replacing existing performance measures to reflect updated market conditions; setting a new “second-half” plan for the period from July to December; and considering the potential exercise of discretion with a corresponding recommendation to increase payouts to officers and all employees after year-end to reflect the Company’s performance and take into account the impact of COVID-19 related events. The Committee and its independent compensation consultant also discussed the Company’s compensation philosophy, the financial impacts of an adjustment to 2020 short-term incentive payouts on shareholders and how the exercise or non-exercise of discretion might be viewed by employees, shareholders and other key stakeholders.

The Committee then identified a preferred approach for further consideration, the replacement of the financial performance measures that were unlikely to payout. With this approach, the Committee would then consider the potential exercise of discretion with a corresponding recommendation to increase payouts to officers and all employees, but with a maximum payout well below the target, guided by a qualitative evaluation of the Company’s 2020 performance. The Committee requested that management provide qualitative measurement categories for review at the next meeting.

4

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6