Document

Exhibit 99.1

Booking Holdings Reports Financial Results for 4th Quarter and Full-Year 2020

NORWALK, CT – February 24, 2021. . . Booking Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: BKNG) today reported its 4th quarter and full-year 2020 financial results. Fourth quarter gross travel bookings for Booking Holdings Inc. (the "Company," "Booking Holdings," "we," "our" or "us"), which refers to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by its customers, net of cancellations, were $7.3 billion, a 65% decrease from the prior year on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. Room nights booked in the 4th quarter decreased 60% from the prior year. The Company's results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2020 have been significantly and negatively impacted due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic conditions and government orders.

Booking Holdings' total revenues for the 4th quarter of 2020 were $1.2 billion, a 63% decrease from the prior year on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. The Company reported a net loss in the 4th quarter of 2020 of $165 million, compared with net income of $1.2 billion in the 4th quarter of 2019. The 4th quarters of 2020 and 2019 include net unrealized gains on marketable equity securities of $553 million and $326 million, respectively. Net loss in the 4th quarter of 2020 was $4.02 per diluted share, compared with net income per diluted share of $27.75 in the 4th quarter of 2019. 

Non-GAAP net loss in the 4th quarter of 2020 was $23 million, compared with non-GAAP net income in the 4th quarter of 2019 of $984 million. Non-GAAP net loss in the 4th quarter of 2020 was $0.57 per diluted share, compared with non-GAAP net income of $23.30 per diluted share in the 4th quarter of 2019. Non-GAAP net (loss) income includes adjustments to exclude net unrealized gains or losses on marketable equity securities and foreign currency losses on Euro-denominated debt that was not designated as a hedging instrument in both periods. Adjusted EBITDA for the 4th quarter of 2020 was a loss of $38 million, compared with adjusted EBITDA of $1.3 billion in the 4th quarter of 2019. The section below entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" provides definitions and information about the use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release, and the attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles non-GAAP financial results with Booking Holdings' financial results under GAAP. 

For the full-year 2020, Booking Holdings had gross travel bookings of $35.4 billion, a 63% decrease compared to 2019 on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. Booking Holdings' total revenues in 2020 were $6.8 billion, a 55% decrease from the prior year on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. Net income for the full-year 2020 was $59 million, a 99% decrease versus the prior year. Net income for the full-years 2020 and 2019 includes gains of $1.8 billion and $745 million, respectively, on marketable equity securities. Net income for the full-year 2020 also includes a $1.1 billion impairment charge related to OpenTable and KAYAK goodwill. Net income for the full-year 2020 was $1.44 per diluted share, a 99% decrease as compared to the prior year. 

Non-GAAP net income for the full-year 2020 was $194 million, a 96% decrease compared to the prior year. Non-GAAP net income was $4.71 per diluted share, a 95% decrease as compared to the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA for 2020 was $879 million, an 85% decrease as compared to the prior year. 

"The travel environment continued to be challenging through the fourth quarter of 2020 and into January 2021 as COVID-19 case counts remained very high and travel restrictions were reimposed in many parts of the world. However, in recent weeks, we have started to see some improvements in booking trends that we will continue to monitor," said Glenn Fogel, Chief Executive Officer of Booking Holdings. "Looking ahead, I am more confident than ever in our long-term future and in the eventual strong recovery of travel demand. We will continue to focus on what we can control, namely investing in our business and executing against our strategic priorities to ensure we exit this crisis on a strong footing."

1

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and include all normal and recurring adjustments that management of the Company considers necessary for a fair presentation of its financial position and operating results.

To supplement the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses the following non-GAAP financial measures: Non-GAAP total revenues, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net (loss) income, non-GAAP net (loss) income per diluted common share and free cash flow (net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures). The presentation of non-GAAP financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.

The Company uses non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a basis to evaluate performance and set targets for employee compensation programs. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate the Company's ongoing operating performance because they facilitate comparison of the Company's results for the current period and projected next-period results to those of prior periods and to those of its competitors (though other companies may calculate similar non-GAAP financial measures differently from those calculated by the Company). These non-GAAP financial measures, in particular adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net (loss) income and free cash flow are not intended to represent funds available for Booking Holdings' discretionary use and are not intended to represent or to be used as a substitute for operating (loss) income, net (loss) income or net cash provided by operating activities as measured under GAAP. The items excluded from these non-GAAP measures, but included in the calculation of their closest GAAP equivalent, are significant components of the Company's consolidated statements of operations and cash flows and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of overall financial performance.

Non-GAAP net (loss) income is net (loss) income with the following adjustments: 

•excludes charges, if any, to correct an error related to the nonpayment of prior-period wage-related tax on compensation paid to certain highly-compensated former employees in the year of separation,

•excludes the impact of impairments of goodwill,

•excludes gains and losses on marketable equity securities, 

•excludes the impact, if any, of significant gains or losses on the sale of and impairment or credit losses on investments in available-for-sale debt securities and significant gains or losses on the sale of and valuation adjustments on investments in equity securities without readily determinable fair values,

•excludes foreign currency transaction gains or losses on Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes,

•excludes amortization expense of intangible assets, 

•excludes non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discount and gains or losses on early extinguishment of debt, if any, related to our convertible debt, 

•excludes income taxes, if any, related to convertible notes held for investment that matured and were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to income tax expense, 

•excludes the income tax impact, if any, related to one-time adjustments as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act") enacted in December 2017,

•excludes the impact of unrecognized tax benefits related to the French and Italian tax matters, and 

•the income tax impact of the non-GAAP adjustments mentioned above and changes in tax estimates, as applicable.

In addition to the adjustments listed above regarding non-GAAP net (loss) income, adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation expense, interest and dividend income, interest expense and income tax expense.

We evaluate certain operating and financial measures on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting our current-year period results for transactions recorded in currencies other than U.S. Dollars using the corresponding prior-year period monthly average exchange rates rather than the current-year period monthly average exchange rates.

2

The attached financial and statistical supplement includes reconciliations of our financial results under GAAP to non-GAAP financial information for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.

Information About Forward-Looking Statements 

This press release contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of the Company's management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information and current foreign currency exchange rates. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, "may," "will," "should," "could," "aims," "seeks," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," and "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. 

The following factors, among others, could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: 

-- the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company's business, financial performance and travel demand, generally;

-- adverse changes in general market conditions for travel services, including the effects of macroeconomic conditions, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, health concerns, civil or political unrest or other events outside our control; 

-- any adverse impacts on our business, operations and/or reputation as a result of any utilization of COVID-19-related governmental stimulus or aid packages;

-- the effects of competition; 

--any adverse impact on our business, operations and/or reputation as a result of the implementation or management of the restructurings;

-- any write-downs or impairments of goodwill or intangible assets related to acquisitions or investments, any increases in provisions for expected credit losses on receivables from and cash advances made to our travel service provider and restaurant partners and any increases in cash outlays to refund consumers for prepaid reservations;

-- adverse changes in relationships with travel service providers and restaurants and other third parties on which we are dependent; 

-- our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel;

-- IT systems-related failures, data privacy risks and obligations, and/or security breaches;

-- fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with doing business in multiple currencies; 

-- our ability to successfully manage growth and expand our global business; 

-- our ability to respond to and keep up with the rapid pace of technological and market changes;

-- our performance marketing efficiency and the general effectiveness of our marketing efforts; 

-- any change by our search and meta-search partners in how they present travel search results or conduct their auctions for search placement in a manner that is competitively disadvantageous to us; and

-- tax, legal and regulatory risks.

3

For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and any subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Unless required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

About Booking Holdings Inc.

Booking Holdings (NASDAQ: BKNG) is the world’s leading provider of online travel and related services, provided to consumers and local partners in more than 220 countries and territories through six primary brands: Booking.com, Priceline, agoda, Rentalcars.com, KAYAK and OpenTable. The mission of Booking Holdings is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world. 

For more information, visit BookingHoldings.com and follow us on Twitter @BookingHoldings.

###

For Press Information: Leslie Cafferty (203) 299-8128 leslie.cafferty@bookingholdings.com

For Investor Relations: John Longstreet (203) 299-8806 john.longstreet@bookingholdings.com

4

Booking Holdings Inc.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share and per share data)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

Booking Holdings Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In millions, except share and per share data)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

Booking Holdings Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

Booking Holdings Inc.

UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION

(In millions, except share and per share data)(1)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts may not total due to rounding.

8

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9

Booking Holdings Inc.

Statistical Data

In millions(1)

(Unaudited)

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts may not total due to rounding.

(2) Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, net of cancellations.