Document

Exhibit 99.1

NEWS RELEASE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SEMPRA ENERGY DELIVERS STRONG FULL-YEAR 

2020 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESULTS

•Executing $32 Billion Five-Year Capital Plan

•Increasing U.S. Utilities Capital in 2021-2022 by $1.1 Billion Over Prior Capital Plan

•Progressing Sempra Infrastructure Partners; Expected to Create Additional Shareholder Value

•Reaffirming Full-Year 2021 EPS Guidance Range

•Raising Annualized Common Stock Dividend 

SAN DIEGO, Feb. 25, 2021 – Sempra Energy (NYSE: SRE) today announced full-year 2020 earnings of $3.76 billion, or $12.88 per diluted share, compared to full-year 2019 earnings of $2.06 billion, or $7.29 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis, the company’s full-year 2020 earnings were $2.35 billion, or $8.03 per diluted share, compared to $1.91 billion, or $6.78 per diluted share, in 2019. In the fourth quarter of 2020, Sempra Energy reported earnings of $414 million, or $1.43 per diluted share, compared to $447 million, or $1.55 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2019. On an adjusted basis, fourth quarter 2020 earnings were $553 million, or $1.90 per diluted share. There were no adjustments made to fourth quarter 2019 earnings. 

“Our strong financial results in 2020 reflect the continued growth in our business and are a credit to our talented workforce and investments in a high-performing culture,” said Jeffrey W. Martin, chairman and CEO of Sempra Energy. “As the owner of one of the largest energy networks in North America, we have set a goal of being a leader in transitioning to a lower-carbon future by enabling the delivery of cleaner energy solutions in every market we serve. We envision critical new investments in energy infrastructure playing a vital role in reaching a net-zero energy future, promoting growth across all sectors of the economy and supporting a thriving energy industry.”

The reported financial results reflect certain significant items as described on an after-tax basis in the following table of GAAP earnings, reconciled to adjusted earnings, for the fourth quarter and full-year 2020 and 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1)Represents a non-GAAP financial measure (GAAP represents accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America). See Table A for information regarding non-GAAP financial measures. 

2)To calculate Full-Year 2020 Adjusted Earnings-Per-Common-Share (EPS), preferred dividends of $104 million are added back to Adjusted Earnings because of the dilutive effect of Series A mandatory convertible preferred stock. 

Declaring Dividends and Raising Annualized Common Stock Dividend 

This week, Sempra Energy’s board of directors declared a $1.10 per share quarterly dividend on the company's common stock, which is payable April 15, 2021 to common stock shareholders of record as of March 25, 2021. The declared quarterly dividend represents an increase of the company's common stock dividend to $4.40 per share, on an annualized basis, from $4.18 per share in 2020. Over the past decade, we have increased our dividend at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 9% and today’s announcement demonstrates the company’s continued commitment to generating value for shareholders, while also reinvesting in the future growth of the business.

Sempra Energy's board of directors also declared a quarterly dividend of $1.6875 per share on the company's 6.75% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B. Additionally, the board of directors declared a semi-annual dividend of $24.375 per share on Sempra Energy's 4.875% Fixed-Rate Reset Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C. The preferred stock dividends will be payable April 15, 2021 to preferred stock shareholders of record as of April 1, 2021. 

Continuing Strong Growth at U.S. Utilities

In combination, San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (SDG&E), Southern California Gas Co. (SoCalGas) and Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC (Oncor) own and operate some of the largest energy networks in the United States and are expected to play a critical role in delivering lower-carbon energy to the communities they serve, while continuing to invest in safety advancements and clean technologies to help maintain resiliency and reliability. Our U.S. Utilities platform has continued to deliver stable cash flows, improved earnings visibility, and strong organic growth. In 2020, Sempra Energy deployed record capital of approximately $7 billion which was primarily centered on safety and reliability investments at SDG&E, SoCalGas and Oncor. In 2021 to 2025, Sempra Energy’s $32 billion capital plan is anchored by continued investments in the company’s U.S. Utilities platform with a focus on safety, reliability and decarbonizing the energy system. Compared to Sempra Energy’s prior capital plan, the company has increased U.S. Utilities capital in 2021-2022 by approximately $1.1 billion. 

In Texas, Oncor has restored power and repaired damages following the unprecedented winter storm that impacted many residents in the state last week. While the severe weather has highlighted the importance of critical energy infrastructure, it also demonstrates the vital role Oncor continues to play in meeting the growing needs of Texas’ economy through the execution of its 2021-2025 capital plan. In 2020, Oncor connected approximately 77,000 new premises, exceeding its connections in 2019 by about 20%, which is the highest organic growth in Oncor’s history. Oncor also set a company record for new generation interconnection requests it received in 2020, driven by strong development activity in utility-scale generation, with a focus on the renewable and battery storage markets. Additionally, Oncor completed six major transmission projects in West Texas totaling approximately 260 circuit miles and approximately $300 million of investment.

Advancing Sempra Infrastructure Partners Transactions 

Sempra Energy continues to make progress on a series of integrated transactions announced in December 2020, intended to simplify its energy infrastructure investments under a common platform – Sempra Infrastructure Partners. The company plans to complete the stock-for-stock exchange offer for the publicly traded shares of Infraestructura Energética Nova, S.A.B. de C.V. (IEnova) and close the sale of a non-controlling interest in Sempra Infrastructure Partners in the second quarter of 2021. The exchange offer and sale of a non-controlling interest are advancing independently and are not contingent upon the timing of the other transaction. 

“With increased scale and a strong growth pipeline, Sempra Infrastructure Partners will be well-positioned to help lead the global energy transition,” said Martin. “Moreover, we expect the transaction to support an investment grade balance sheet to support the company’s future growth.”

By simplifying the ownership structure of Sempra LNG and IEnova under Sempra Infrastructure Partners, the company is expected to create additional value for Sempra Energy investors.

Progressing LNG Infrastructure Investments 

In November 2020, ECA Liquefaction (ECA LNG), a joint venture between Sempra LNG and IEnova, reached a final investment decision (FID) for the development, construction and operation of the ECA LNG Phase 1 natural gas liquefaction-export project in Baja California, Mexico. ECA LNG Phase 1 is the only liquefied natural gas (LNG) export project in the world to reach FID in 2020. Estimated capital expenditures for 

ECA LNG Phase 1 are approximately $2 billion. Sempra expects to fund the project with a combination of equity contributions and debt. First LNG production from ECA LNG Phase 1 is expected in late 2024.

Additionally, an affiliate of Total SE has secured a 16.6% equity stake in ECA LNG Phase 1, while Sempra LNG and IEnova have each retained 41.7% ownership.

Building Sustainable Value

Sempra Energy’s strong results are underpinned by a commitment to environmental, social and governance matters. The company’s recent recognition includes:

•Fortune Magazine’s “World’s Most Admired Companies” for 2021;

•Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, as the only North American utility sector company on the list;

•Dow Jones Sustainability North American Index;

•Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for 2021;

•Human Rights Campaign’s “Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality;”

•Center for Political Accountability-Zicklin Index – Trendsetter in political disclosure practices and accountability for 2020;

•Chief Executive of the Year at S&P Global Platts’ Global Energy Awards;

•Deal of the Year at S&P Global Platts’ Global Energy Awards for the divestiture of the company’s South American assets; and

•National Association of Corporate Directors' NXT Award for excellence in diversity and inclusion.

Earnings Guidance

As a result of Sempra Energy’s continued financial execution, the company is reaffirming its full-year 2021 EPS guidance range of $7.50 to $8.10.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Non-GAAP financial measures include Sempra Energy’s adjusted earnings, adjusted EPS and adjusted diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding. See Table A for additional information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.

Internet Broadcast

Sempra Energy will broadcast a live discussion of its earnings results over the Internet today at 12 p.m. ET with senior management of the company. Access is available by logging onto the website at www.sempra.com. For those unable to log on to the live webcast, the teleconference will be available on replay a few hours after its conclusion by dialing (888) 203-1112 and entering passcode 2095631.

About Sempra Energy

Sempra Energy's mission is to be North America's premier energy infrastructure company. The Sempra Energy family of companies have more than 19,000 talented employees who deliver energy with purpose to 

over 36 million consumers. With more than $66 billion in total assets at the end of 2020, the San Diego-based company is the owner of one of the biggest energy networks in North America serving some of the largest economies in the world. The company is helping to advance the global energy transition by enabling the delivery of lower-carbon energy solutions in each market it serves, including California, Texas, Mexico and the LNG export market. Sempra Energy is consistently recognized as a leader in sustainable business practices and for its long-standing commitment to building a high-performing culture and advancing diversity and inclusion. Sempra is the only North American utility sector company included on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and was also named one of the "World's Most Admired Companies" for 2021 by Fortune Magazine for the fourth consecutive year.

###

This press release contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions with respect to the future, involve risks and uncertainties, and are not guarantees. Future results may differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this press release. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other factors.

In this press release, forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “estimates,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “will,” “confident,” “may,” “can,” “potential,” “possible,” “proposed,” “in process,” “under construction,” “in development,” “target,” “outlook,” “maintain,” “continue,” or similar expressions, or when we discuss our guidance, priorities, strategy, goals, vision, mission, opportunities, projections, intentions or expectations.

Factors, among others, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties relating to: California wildfires, including the risks that we may be found liable for damages regardless of fault and that we may not be able to recover costs from insurance, the wildfire fund established by California Assembly Bill 1054 or in rates from customers; decisions, investigations, regulations, issuances or revocations of permits and other authorizations, renewals of franchises, and other actions by (i) the Comisión Federal de Electricidad, California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), U.S. Department of Energy, Public Utility Commission of Texas, and other regulatory and governmental bodies and (ii) states, counties, cities and other jurisdictions in the U.S., Mexico and other countries in which we do business; the success of business development efforts, construction projects and major acquisitions and divestitures, including risks in (i) the ability to make a final investment decision, (ii) completing construction projects or other transactions on schedule and budget, (iii) the ability to realize anticipated benefits from any of these efforts if completed, and (iv) obtaining the consent of partners or other third parties; the resolution of civil and criminal litigation, regulatory inquiries, investigations and proceedings, and arbitrations, including, among others, those related to the natural gas leak at Southern California Gas Company’s (SoCalGas) Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our capital projects, regulatory approval processes, supply chain, liquidity and execution of operations; actions by credit rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings or to place those ratings on negative outlook and our ability to borrow on favorable terms and meet our substantial debt service obligations; moves to reduce or eliminate reliance on natural gas and the impact of volatility of oil prices on our businesses and development projects; weather, natural disasters, pandemics, accidents, equipment failures, explosions, acts of terrorism, computer system outages and other events that disrupt our operations, damage our facilities and systems, cause the release of harmful materials, cause fires and subject us to liability for property damage or personal injuries, fines and penalties, some of which may not be covered by insurance (including costs in excess of applicable policy limits), may be disputed by insurers or may otherwise not be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms or may impact our ability to obtain satisfactory levels of affordable insurance; the availability of electric power and natural gas and natural gas storage capacity, including disruptions caused by failures in the transmission grid, limitations on the withdrawal of natural gas from storage facilities, and equipment failures; cybersecurity threats to the energy grid, storage and pipeline infrastructure, the information and systems used to operate our businesses, and the confidentiality of our proprietary information and the personal information of our customers and employees; expropriation of assets, failure of foreign governments and state-owned entities to honor their contracts, and property disputes; the impact at San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDG&E) on competitive customer rates and reliability due to the growth in distributed and local power generation, including from departing retail load resulting from customers transferring to Direct Access and Community Choice Aggregation, and the risk of nonrecovery for stranded assets and contractual obligations; Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC’s (Oncor) ability to eliminate or reduce its quarterly dividends due to regulatory and governance requirements and commitments, including by actions of Oncor’s independent directors or a minority member director; volatility in foreign currency exchange and interest rates and commodity prices and our ability to effectively hedge these risks; changes in tax and trade policies, laws and regulations, including tariffs and revisions to international trade agreements that may increase our costs, reduce our competitiveness, or impair our ability to resolve trade disputes; and other uncertainties, some of which may be difficult to predict and are beyond our control.

These risks and uncertainties are further discussed in the reports that Sempra Energy has filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports are available through the EDGAR system free-of-charge on the SEC's website, www.sec.gov, and on the company's website, www.sempra.com. Investors should not rely unduly on any forward-looking statements.

Sempra North American Infrastructure, Sempra LNG, Sempra Mexico, Sempra Texas Utilities, Oncor and Infraestructura Energética Nova, S.A.B. de C.V. (IEnova) are not the same companies as the California utilities, SDG&E or SoCalGas, and Sempra North American Infrastructure, Sempra LNG, Sempra Mexico, Sempra Texas Utilities, Oncor and IEnova are not regulated by the CPUC. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SEMPRA ENERGY

Table A (Continued)

RECONCILIATION OF SEMPRA ENERGY ADJUSTED EARNINGS TO SEMPRA ENERGY GAAP EARNINGS (Unaudited)

Sempra Energy Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EPS exclude items (after the effects of income taxes and, if applicable, noncontrolling interests) in 2020 and 2019 as follows:

Three months ended December 31, 2020:

▪$(139) million from impacts associated with Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility litigation and regulatory matters at Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas)

Year ended December 31, 2020:

▪$(233) million from impacts associated with Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility litigation and regulatory matters at SoCalGas

▪$(100) million equity losses at RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, which represent an estimate of our obligations to settle pending tax matters and related legal costs at our equity method investment at Parent and Other

▪$1,747 million gain on the sale of our South American businesses

Year ended December 31, 2019:

▪$45 million gain on the sale of certain Sempra Renewables assets

Associated with holding the South American businesses for sale:

▪$89 million income tax benefit from outside basis differences in our South American businesses primarily related to the change in our indefinite reinvestment assertion from our decision in January 2019 to hold those businesses for sale and a change in the anticipated structure of the sale

▪$10 million income tax benefit to reduce a valuation allowance against certain net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards as a result of our decision to sell our South American businesses

Sempra Energy Adjusted Earnings, Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstanding – Adjusted and Adjusted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures (GAAP represents accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America). Because of the significance and/or nature of the excluded items, management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide a meaningful comparison of the performance of Sempra Energy’s business operations to prior and future periods. Non-GAAP financial measures are supplementary information that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The table below reconciles for historical periods these non-GAAP financial measures to Sempra Energy GAAP Earnings, Weighted-Average Common Shares Outstanding – GAAP and GAAP EPS, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SEMPRA ENERGY

Table A (Continued)

RECONCILIATION OF SEMPRA ENERGY 2020 ADJUSTED EPS GUIDANCE RANGE TO SEMPRA ENERGY 2020 GAAP EPS GUIDANCE RANGE (Unaudited)

Sempra Energy 2020 Adjusted EPS Guidance Range of $7.20 to $7.80 excludes items (after the effects of income taxes and, if applicable, noncontrolling interests) as follows:

▪$(233) million from impacts associated with Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility litigation and regulatory matters at SoCalGas

▪$(100) million equity losses at RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, which represent an estimate of our obligations to settle pending tax matters and related legal costs at our equity method investment at Parent and Other

▪$1,747 million gain on the sale of our South American businesses

Sempra Energy 2020 Adjusted EPS Guidance Range is a non-GAAP financial measure. Because of the significance and/or nature of the excluded items, management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides a meaningful comparison of the performance of Sempra Energy's business operations to prior and future periods. Sempra Energy 2020 Adjusted EPS Guidance Range should not be considered an alternative to Sempra Energy 2020 GAAP EPS Guidance Range. Non-GAAP financial measures are supplementary information that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The table below reconciles Sempra Energy 2020 Adjusted EPS Guidance Range to Sempra Energy 2020 GAAP EPS Guidance Range, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]