Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity price-related changes. We maintain a hedging program to manage volatility related to some of these market exposures which employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Note 1 and Note 10 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion regarding our use of derivative instruments.

Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity

By the nature of our global operations, we are exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. The following foreign currencies represent the principal drivers of our foreign exchange exposure: Canadian dollar, euro, Thai baht, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi, Australian dollar, British pound and Japanese yen.

We apply a Value-At-Risk ("VAR") methodology to our transactional and translational exposures. The VAR model is a risk estimation tool and is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value that could be incurred.

Transactional Exposure

Transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than our functional currency or the functional currency of our subsidiaries. At the end of each fiscal year we perform sensitivity analyses on our 

forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. These analyses include the estimated impact of our hedging program, which is designed to mitigate transactional exposure. Applying a VAR methodology to our transactional exposure and including the impact of our hedging program, the potential maximum loss in earnings for the upcoming fiscal year is estimated to be $16 million, which is based on a one-year horizon and a 95 percent confidence level.

Translational Exposure

We have exposure related to the translation of financial statements of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars, our functional currency. Applying a VAR methodology to our translational exposure, the potential maximum loss in earnings for the upcoming fiscal year is estimated to be $5 million, which is based on a one-year horizon and a 95 percent confidence level. 

Interest Rate Sensitivity

We are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund operations. The nature and amount of our long-term and short-term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. Our policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. We utilize interest rate swap instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest rate movements.

As part of our risk management program, we perform an annual sensitivity analysis on our forecasted exposure to interest rates for the upcoming fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 50 basis point change in interest rates. At June 30, 2021, the potential increase or decrease in annual interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change would be $2 million.

We are also exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates related to our cash and cash equivalents, which includes marketable securities that are carried at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of our cash and cash equivalents is subject to change primarily as a result of changes in market interest rates and investment risk related to the issuers' credit worthiness. At June 30, 2021, a hypothetical increase or decrease of 50 basis points in interest rates would result in a hypothetical $10 million change in the estimated fair value.

 30Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Disclosures about Market Risk

Commodity Price Sensitivity

We are directly exposed to market price changes for certain commodities, including oil-based resins, nitrile, cotton, diesel fuel and latex. We typically purchase raw materials at either market prices or prices tied to a commodity index and some finished goods at prices based in part on a commodity price index. 

As part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analysis on our forecasted direct commodity exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. Our forecasted direct commodity exposure at June 30, 2021 increased approximately $4 million from June 30, 2020. At June 30, 2020, we had hedged a portion of these direct commodity exposures (see Note 10 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion). There were no outstanding commodity contracts in our hedging program at June 30, 2021.

Our forecasted direct commodity exposures for the upcoming fiscal year is $449 million. The potential gain/loss given a hypothetical 10 percent fluctuation in commodity prices, assuming pricing collectively shifts in the same direction and we are unable to change customer pricing in response to those shifts or otherwise offset, for the upcoming fiscal year is $45 million at June 30, 2021. The hypothetical offsetting impact of hedges in both periods was minimal. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K31

Business

Business

General

Cardinal Health, Inc. is a global integrated healthcare services and products company providing customized solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems, pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories, physician offices and patients in the home. We provide medical products and pharmaceuticals and cost-effective solutions that enhance supply chain efficiency. 

Pharmaceutical Segment

In the United States, our Pharmaceutical segment:

•through its Pharmaceutical Distribution division, distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical and over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and other healthcare providers. This division:

▪maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our retail, hospital and other healthcare provider customers;

▪provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, new product launch support and chargeback administration;

▪through the Outcomes service offering, connects pharmacists, payers and pharmaceutical companies and delivers health solutions for personalized medication therapy management, digital patient engagement and telepharmacy;

•provides pharmacy management services to hospitals and operates a limited number of pharmacies, including in community health centers; and

•repackages generic pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products;

•through its Specialty Solutions division, distributes specialty pharmaceutical products to hospitals and other healthcare providers and provides consulting, patient support and other services for specialty pharmaceutical products to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers; and

•through its Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division, operates nuclear pharmacies and manufacturing facilities, which manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and physician offices. This division also contract manufactures a radiopharmaceutical treatment (Xofigo) and holds the North American rights to manufacture and distribute Lymphoseek, a radiopharmaceutical diagnostic imaging agent.

See Note 13 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019.

Pharmaceutical Distribution

Our Pharmaceutical Distribution division’s gross margin includes margin from our generic pharmaceutical program, from distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and from over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products. It also includes manufacturer cash discounts. 

Margin from our generic pharmaceutical program includes price discounts and rebates from manufacturers and may in limited instances include price appreciation. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a product, because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally highest during that period and tend to decline over time. 

Margin from distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers is derived from compensation we receive for providing a range of distribution and related services to manufacturers. Our compensation typically is a percentage of the wholesale acquisition cost that is set by manufacturers. In addition, under a limited number of agreements, branded pharmaceutical price appreciation, which is determined by the manufacturers, also serves as part of our compensation. 

Sourcing Venture with CVS Health Corporation

Red Oak Sourcing, LLC ("Red Oak Sourcing"), a U.S.-based generic pharmaceutical sourcing venture with CVS Health negotiates generic pharmaceutical supply contracts on behalf of both companies. In August 2021, we amended our agreement with CVS Health to extend the term of Red Oak Sourcing through June 2029.

Specialty Pharmaceutical Products and Services

We refer to products and services offered by our Specialty Solutions division as “specialty pharmaceutical products and services.” The Specialty Solutions division distributes oncology, rheumatology, urology, nephrology and other pharmaceutical products ("specialty pharmaceutical products") and human-derived plasma products to hospitals, dialysis clinics, physician offices and other healthcare providers; provides consulting, patient support, logistics, group purchasing and other services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers primarily supporting the development, marketing and distribution of specialty pharmaceutical products; and provides specialty pharmacy services. Our use of the terminology "specialty pharmaceutical products and services" may not be comparable to the terminology used by other industry participants.

 32Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Business

Medical Segment

Our Medical segment manufactures and sources Cardinal Health branded general and specialty medical, surgical and laboratory products and devices. These products include exam and surgical gloves; needle, syringe and sharps disposal; compression; incontinence; nutritional delivery; wound care; single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; fluid suction and collection systems; urology; operating room supply; and electrode product lines. Our Cardinal Health Brand products are sold directly or through third-party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets. These products are generally higher-margin products. 

The Medical segment also distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products known as national brand products 

and provides supply chain services and solutions to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States and Canada and this segment also assembles and sells sterile and non-sterile procedure kits. 

Through Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions, this segment also distributes medical products to patients' homes in the United States. 

The Medical segment, through its Wavemark division, also provides an automated technology platform for inventory management. 

Acquisitions and Divestitures

Acquisitions

We have acquired a number of businesses over the years that have enhanced our core strategic areas of Cardinal Health Brand medical products, generic pharmaceutical distribution and services, specialty pharmaceutical products and services, international and post-acute care. We expect to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future.

During the last five fiscal years, we completed several acquisitions. In July 2017, we acquired the Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and Nutritional Insufficiency businesses (the "Patient Recovery Business") from Medtronic plc for $6.1 billion in cash. We also completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including, in fiscal 2017, the acquisition of the North American rights to Lymphoseek, a radiopharmaceutical diagnostic imaging agent, from Navidea Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Divestitures

Over the past five fiscal years, we have also completed several divestitures. 

On August 2, 2021, we completed the divestiture of our Cordis business to Hellman & Freidman ("H&F") for net proceeds of $927 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. We have retained certain working capital accounts and product liability for lawsuits related to inferior vena cava filters in the U.S. and Canada, as described in Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We acquired the Cordis business from Johnson & Johnson for $1.9 billion in October 2015. This divestiture also includes Access Closure, Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of extravascular closure devices, that we acquired for approximately $320 million in May 2014. 

In August 2018, we completed the sale of our equity interest in naviHealth, Inc. to investor entities controlled by Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, LLC ("CD&R") for proceeds of $737 million (after adjusting for certain fees and expenses) and a noncontrolling equity interest in a partnership that owned naviHealth. In May 2020, we sold the remainder of our equity interest in naviHealth.

We had acquired our equity interest in naviHealth through a series of transactions beginning in fiscal 2016, when we acquired a majority equity interest. 

In February 2018, we completed the sale of our pharmaceutical and medical products distribution business in China to Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co., Ltd. for proceeds of $861 million (after adjusting for third party indebtedness and preliminary transaction adjustments).

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K33

Business

Customers

Our largest customers, CVS and OptumRx, accounted for 26 percent and 15 percent of our fiscal 2021 revenue, respectively. In the aggregate, our five largest customers, including CVS and OptumRx, accounted for 50 percent of our fiscal 2021 revenue. 

In August 2021, we extended our pharmaceutical distribution agreements with CVS through June 2027. 

We have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on 

behalf of their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of revenue are with Vizient, Inc. and Premier, Inc. Sales to members of these two GPOs, under numerous contracts across our businesses, collectively accounted for 15 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2021.

Suppliers

We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of 30 percent of our revenue during fiscal 2021, and our largest supplier’s products accounted for approximately 7 percent of revenue.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare products. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the manufacturing and distribution of medical devices and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including price, service offerings, support services, customer service, breadth of product lines and product quality and efficacy.

In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with wholesale distributors with national reach, including McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, regional wholesale distributors, self-warehousing chains, specialty distributors, third-party logistics companies, companies that provide specialty pharmaceutical services and nuclear pharmacies, among others. 

In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers. We also compete with manufacturers that sell their products directly.

In the Medical segment, we compete with many diversified healthcare companies and national medical product distributors, such as Medline Industries, Inc., Owens & Minor, Inc. and Becton, Dickinson and Company, as well as regional medical product distributors and companies that are focused on specific product categories. We also compete with companies that distribute medical products to patients' homes and third-party logistics companies. 

Human Capital Management

Employees 

We, through our employees, improve the lives of people every day by solving complex healthcare problems. As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately 47,300 employees globally, approximately 18,300 of whom are based outside the United States. Approximately 98% of our workforce is full time employees. Approximately 29,000 of our employees worked in our distribution centers, manufacturing facilities and pharmacies, and 18,300 worked in other functions, including finance, information technology, human resources and sales.

Approximately 3,230 employees were primarily associated with our Cordis business and were transferred in the divestiture in August 2021. Most of these employees are based outside the United States.

Additionally, we have engaged global professional services firms to perform certain business processes on our behalf, including within finance, information technology and human resources.

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 

At Cardinal Health, we are focused on building a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace that values the unique perspectives and contributions of all of our employees. 

We promote a culture of diversity, equity and inclusion through, for example, seven Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), including groups focused on various racial and ethnic groups, members of the LGBTQ community, employees with disabilities, veterans and women. They are designed to foster an inclusive and engaged workforce and develop future leaders. In addition, we have manager and broad-based unconscious bias and racial equity training courses. Our work is led by our senior executives with advice from a Diversity and Inclusion Steering Council which consists of senior leaders from across the company. Additionally, in December 2019, we created a new African American and Black Racial Equity Cabinet to provide guidance to our senior executives in addressing racism and social injustice. 

 34Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Business

We also monitor pay equity. We define pay equity as equal pay for people of all gender identities and ethnicities who are performing substantially similar work. We have a pay equity committee, which guides the ongoing analysis and benchmarking, in regular consultation with an independent third-party, to review and help inform our salary and compensation practices. 

We have established long-range aspirational representation goals for specific under-represented groups in our manager-and-above level employee population. 

Employee Health & Safety 

The health, safety and security of our employees is an priority for us. We employ systems designed to continually monitor our facilities and work environment to promote employee safety and identify and prevent or mitigate any potential risks. This includes procedures and equipment for security. We routinely assess facilities to closely monitor adherence to established security and safety standards. Our employees receive specialized training related to their role, work setting, and equipment used in their work environment. As our processes evolve, we update relevant safety training modules, which may include new employee training programs. 

COVID-19 Response

Protecting the health and safety of our employees and their families has been a priority throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. 

In March, 2020, all employees who could work remotely began working from home. We expanded our technology infrastructure to help employees perform their duties remotely and continue to support customers, patients and our frontline colleagues. Many of these employees continue to work remotely. 

Because Cardinal Health is part of a critical infrastructure industry, more than 30,000 of our employees have continued to report to work in distribution centers, supply chain operations, manufacturing sites, pharmacies and other clinical sites.

To help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and protect the safety of our frontline employees, all of our facilities are thoroughly cleaned regularly and we implemented safety measures, including mask and social distancing requirements, in accordance with the U.S. 

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization guidelines. We also educated employees on how they can help keep themselves and their families safe and have training programs to help employees stay safe in their jobs. Our safety measures have helped us to avoid a wide spread outbreak of COVID-19 among our employees. Since June 2021, we have provided clinics for employees, contractors and their families and friends to receive a COVID-19 vaccine. 

Talent Retention & Culture 

Talent Development and Learning

Cardinal Health’s talent development strategy is a segmented, multi-pronged approach to build capabilities, skills and competencies of leaders and employees throughout the enterprise ensuring employees capabilities connect to business needs and outcomes. This segmented approach includes broad based employee skill development and learning, manager capabilities and development, differentiated diverse talent development and executive development. 

Culture 

Cardinal Health’s culture is rooted in our values and behaviors and aligned to the company’s strategic framework. Providing a positive work environment supports our ability to attract, retain and develop our employees and enables business performance. We reinforce, monitor and assess our culture through a variety of programs and processes which include performance management, talent/succession planning, employee engagement surveys and other listening strategies.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents, and continue to pursue patent protection throughout the world, relating to the manufacture, operation and use of various medical and surgical products, to certain distribution and logistics systems, to the production and distribution of our nuclear pharmacy products and to other service offerings. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties.

We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to protect our proprietary rights, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights in the event that they are infringed upon by a third party. While all of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K35

Business

Regulatory Matters

Our business is highly regulated in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in foreign countries. Depending upon the specific business, we may be subject to regulation by government entities including:

•the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (the “DEA”);

•certain agencies within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Office of Inspector General and the Office for Civil Rights;

•state health departments, insurance departments, Medicaid departments or other comparable state agencies; 

•state boards of pharmacy and other controlled substance authorities;

•the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the “NRC”);

•the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC");

•U.S. Customs and Border Protection; and

•agencies comparable to those listed above in markets outside the United States.

These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal for failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements. They can suspend our ability to manufacture and distribute products, require us to initiate product recalls, seize products or impose criminal, civil and administrative sanctions.

Distribution

State Boards of Pharmacy, FDA, DEA and various other state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products under various federal and state statutes including the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 (the “DQSA”), and Controlled Substances Act (the "CSA"). The CSA governs the sale, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards including effective anti-diversion programs, and comply with the CSA. They must also comply with state requirements relating to controlled substances that differ from state to state. 

The Proposed Settlement Agreement, as described in the Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in MD&A and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, if it becomes effective, also includes injunctive relief terms related to settling distributors' controlled substance anti-diversion programs, including with respect to: (1) governance; (2) independence and training of the personnel operating our controlled substances monitoring program; (3) due diligence for new and existing customers; (4) ordering limits for certain products; and (5) suspicious order monitoring. A monitor will be selected to oversee compliance with these provisions for a period 

of five years. In addition, the settling distributors will engage a third-party vendor to act as a clearinghouse for data aggregation and reporting and will fund the clearinghouse for ten years. 

Manufacturing, Sourcing and Marketing

We sell our manufactured products in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia, Latin America and other markets. The FDA and other governmental agencies in the United States, as well as foreign governmental agencies, administer requirements that cover the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing (including good manufacturing practices), quality systems, labeling, promotion and advertising (including restrictions on promoting or advertising a product other than for the product's cleared or approved uses), distribution, importation and post-market surveillance for most of our manufactured products. We are also subject to these requirements when we source certain Medical segment products from third-party manufacturers. 

We need specific approval or clearance from, and registrations with, regulatory authorities before we can market and sell some products in the United States and certain other countries, including countries in the European Union ("EU"). 

In the United States, authorization to commercially market a medical device is generally received in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that a medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. The second more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (“PMA”), requires us to independently demonstrate that a medical device is safe and effective. Many of our Medical segment branded products are cleared through the 510(k) process and certain products must be approved through the PMA process. 

In the EU, we are required to obtain CE Mark Certification in order to market medical devices. In 2017, EU regulatory bodies finalized a new Medical Device Regulation ("MDR") became effective in May 2021. Under the MDR, medical devices marketed in the EU require significant pre-market and post-market requirements. 

It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals, clearances and registrations of medical devices, and they might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product or obtain product registrations, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory oversight, including periodic inspection of manufacturing facilities by FDA and other regulatory authorities both in the United States and internationally. 

From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements or published standards. When we or a regulatory agency identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, which may include recalling the product, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling and notifying customers. For example, in January 2020, we issued a voluntary recall for certain surgical gowns and 

 36Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Business

two voluntary field actions for certain Presource Procedure Packs because one of our FDA-registered suppliers in China had shifted production of some gowns to unapproved sites. 

Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may limit our ability to effectively manufacture, source, market and sell our products, limit our ability to obtain future premarket approvals or result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. For additional information, please see our Risk Factor entitled "Our business is subject to rigorous quality regulatory and licensing requirements."

Privacy and Data Protection 

We are subject to various and evolving privacy laws and regulations in many jurisdictions. Because we collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information, we are subject to laws that require specified privacy and security measures and that regulate the use and disclosure of such information, including the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act as well as state laws, in the United States. 

We also collect, handle, and maintain other sensitive personal and financial information. Within the U.S., these activities are regulated by certain federal and state laws. For example, the new California Consumer Privacy Act became effective in January 2020 and grants specified rights to consumers over the use of their personal information, including increased transparency. Other states have adopted or are considering adopting similar or different comprehensive privacy laws. Internationally, we are also subject to privacy and data protection laws that require significant compliance efforts, including the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Canada's Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) and Japan's Act on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI), among many others. 

Nuclear Pharmacies and Related Businesses

Our nuclear pharmacies and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities (including for Xofigo) require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations issued by the NRC, applicable state boards of pharmacy and the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate, including pharmacy sterile compounding standards and practices. In addition, our radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities also must comply with FDA regulations, including good manufacturing practices.

Product Tracing and Supply Chain Integrity

Title II of the DQSA, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act or "Track and Trace," establishes a phased-in national system for tracing pharmaceutical products through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain to detect, prevent and rapidly respond to the introduction of drugs that may be counterfeit, diverted, stolen, adulterated, subject of a fraudulent transaction or otherwise unfit for distribution. The first phase of implementation began in 2015, and upon full implementation in 2023, we and other supply chain stakeholders will participate in an electronic, interoperable, prescription drug tracing system. In addition, the FDA also has issued regulations requiring most medical device labeling to bear a unique device identifier. The MDR, described above, also introduces a new unique device identifier requirement.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K37

Business

Government Healthcare Programs

We are subject to U.S. federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws generally prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order, recommend or purchase products or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. There are similar state healthcare fraud and abuse laws that apply to Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programs. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties, as well as breach of contract claims and qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments).

Some businesses within each of our segments are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in other federal and state healthcare programs, such as state Medicaid programs and the federal 340B drug pricing program. These businesses are subject to accreditation and quality standards and other rules and regulations, including applicable reporting, billing, payment and record-keeping requirements. Other businesses within each segment manufacture pharmaceutical or medical products or repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased or reimbursed through, or are otherwise governed by, federal or state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable eligibility requirements, standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. For example, the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts has been conducting an investigation related to discounts and rebates offered or provided to certain Specialty Solutions customers as a result of qui tam actions. For more information on this investigation, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our U.S. federal and state government contracts are subject to specific procurement requirements. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws

In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, including laws regulating the production or use of hazardous substances, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices.

Antitrust Laws

The U.S. federal government, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. Violations of these laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also could bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims for treble damages. 

Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations

U.S. and foreign laws require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties.

Similarly, we are subject to U.S. and foreign laws concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other foreign anti-bribery laws. Among other things, these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to officials of foreign governments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. For example, in February 2020, we paid approximately $8.4 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission to settle charges that our internal controls were not sufficient to detect improper payments made by employees of our former China distribution business. 

 38Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Business

Other Information 

Although our agreements with manufacturers sometimes require us to maintain inventory levels within specified ranges, our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain customer contracts require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels.

Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return product for credit that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit.

We offer market payment terms to our customers.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K39

Risk Factors

Risk Factors 

The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. These are not the only risks we face. Our businesses also could be affected by risks we do not currently consider material to our operations or of which we are not presently aware.

COVID-19 Risks

We have been and expect to continue to be negatively affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.

See the description of the actual and possible effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting disruptions on our business and operations discussed above in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition to the adverse impacts and uncertainties from the COVID-19 pandemic identified there, we continue to face additional possible adverse impacts, including those described below. 

During the COVID-19 pandemic, our Medical segment experienced dramatically increased demand for and industry shortages of certain PPE, such as masks, gowns and gloves. This increased demand resulted in increased costs to manufacture and source these products, and ultimately, higher inventory levels. As a result, we have sought additional sources for these products and to mitigate the cost increases, we have raised our selling prices for affected products. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, selling prices and customer demand for certain PPE declined, which we expect to continue into fiscal year 2022. This has resulted in inventory reserves. Our estimates for demand and selling prices are inherently uncertain and if demand or selling prices or other market dynamics decline in the future beyond our current assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, which would adversely impact Medical segment profit. 

Additionally, pricing actions have mitigated the impact of the increased costs to manufacture and source PPE, as a result of the decreased demand and selling price, we may not be successful at continuing to mitigate the impact of these increased costs in the future. 

Within our Pharmaceutical segment, COVID-19-related volume declines have negatively impacted our Pharmaceutical segment generics program, but are expected to moderate in fiscal year 2022. If demand for these products does not return to pre-COVID-19 levels, or returns more slowly than anticipated, the negative impact could be more prolonged or significant than we currently expect. 

Federal, state and local government policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 also resulted in the cancellation or deferral of many elective medical procedures and some of our customers closing or severely curtailing their operations. While lower demand for surgical products resulting from reduced elective procedures had an adverse impact on Medical segment profit during the first nine months of fiscal 2021, demand improved during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. If 

governmental policies designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 return and demand for these procedures does not increase or decreases further, we could have less sales of the affected products and services than we currently expect. Additionally, sustained changes in the manner in which patients access healthcare may result in shifts in consumer preferences that may not be favorable to us. 

We cannot estimate the continued length or severity of the COVID-19 pandemic or the related consequences on the U.S. and global economy and our business and operations, including whether and when normal economic and operating conditions will resume or the extent to which further disruption may impact our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flow. The COVID-19 pandemic has also heightened other risks, including risks associated with competitive pressures, supplier relationships, international operations, regulatory and licensing, changes to the U.S. healthcare environment, cyber security, and access to capital markets.

Legal, Regulatory & Compliance Risks

The public health crisis involving the abuse of prescription opioid pain medication and our efforts to resolve related claims could have additional or unexpected material negative effects on our business.

Our Pharmaceutical segment distributes prescription opioid pain medications. In recent years, the abuse of prescription opioid pain medication has become a public health crisis.

A significant number of states, counties, municipalities and other public plaintiffs, have filed lawsuits against pharmaceutical manufacturers, pharmaceutical wholesale distributors (including us), retail chains and others relating to the manufacturing, marketing or distribution of prescription opioid pain medications. In July 2021, we announced that, as a result of the previously disclosed settlement framework, we and two other national distributors have negotiated a proposed settlement agreement and settlement process that, if all conditions are satisfied (including the approval of the Board of Directors), would result in the settlement of the vast majority of opioid lawsuits filed by state and local governmental entities (the “Proposed Settlement Agreement”). This Proposed Settlement Agreement is subject to contingencies and there is no assurance that a sufficient number of states and subdivisions will agree to the proposed settlement agreement or that the required contingencies will be satisfied. It is possible that we may fail to reach a final settlement. For more information on the proposed settlement and other opioid-related litigation matters, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

A trial in the case brought by the Ohio Attorney General is scheduled to begin in September 2021 and a trial in the case brought by the Washington Attorney General is scheduled to begin in November 2021. The Ohio Attorney General has issued a press released indicating support for the Proposed Settlement Agreement; however, the Washington Attorney General has issued 

 40Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Risk Factors

a press release stating that Washington will not agree to the Proposed Settlement Agreement. These public announcements are not binding and there is no assurance that any state that has made a public announcement of support for the Proposed Settlement Agreement will ultimately execute the Proposed Settlement Agreement. It is also possible that, even if the Proposed Settlement Agreement becomes effective, we could have trials for lawsuits brought by other states or subdivisions as well. West Virginia subdivisions and Native American Tribes are not a part of this settlement process and we are involved in separate negotiations with these groups. 

In addition to the claims addressed by the Proposed Settlement Agreement, we are also being sued by private plaintiffs, such as unions, other health and welfare funds, hospital systems, other healthcare providers and individuals alleging personal injury for the same activities and could be named as a defendant in additional lawsuits. 

We have received federal grand jury subpoenas issued in connection with investigations being conducted by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York and the Fraud Section of the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"). We have also received civil requests for information from other DOJ offices. We believe that these investigations concern operation of our anti-diversion program, our anti-diversion policies and procedures, and distribution of certain controlled substances. 

The defense and resolution of current and future lawsuits and investigations are subject to uncertainty and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity, or our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our shares, beyond the amounts accrued. In addition, they could have adverse reputational or operational effects on our business.

Other legislative, regulatory or industry measures related to the public health crisis involving the abuse of prescription opioid pain medication and the distribution of these medications could affect our business in ways that we may not be able to predict. For example, several states have now adopted or proposed taxes or other fees on the sale of opioids. These laws and proposals vary in the tax amounts imposed and the means of calculation. Liabilities for taxes or assessments under any such laws could have an adverse impact on our results of operations unless we are able to mitigate them through operational changes or commercial arrangements where permitted.

Ongoing unfavorable publicity regarding the abuse or misuse of prescription opioid pain medications and the role of wholesale distributors in the supply chain of such prescription medications, as well as the continued proliferation of the opioid lawsuits, investigations, regulations and legislative actions, and unfavorable publicity in relation to those lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or results of operations.

Our business is subject to other rigorous quality, regulatory and licensing requirements.

As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, products that we manufacture, source, distribute or market must comply with quality and regulatory requirements. Noncompliance or 

concerns over noncompliance, including noncompliance by third-party contract manufacturers, may result in suspension of our ability to distribute, import, manufacture or source products, as well as product bans, recalls, safety alerts or seizures, or criminal or civil sanctions, which, in turn, could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions. In addition, it can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory approvals or product registrations to market a medical device or other product, and such approvals or registrations might not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. 

Also as described in greater detail in the "Business" section, our business is highly regulated in the United States, at both the federal and state level, and in foreign countries. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or if allegations are made that we fail to comply, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

To lawfully operate our businesses, we are required to obtain and hold permits, product registrations, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, numerous governmental bodies. For example, as a wholesale distributor of controlled substances, we must hold valid DEA registrations and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the CSA. Failure to maintain or renew necessary permits, product registrations, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

We collect, handle and maintain patient-identifiable health information and other sensitive personal and financial information which are subject to federal, state and foreign laws that regulate the use and disclosure of such information. Regulations currently in place continue to evolve, and new laws in this area could further restrict our ability to collect, handle and maintain personal or patient information, or could require us to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Violations of federal, state or foreign laws concerning privacy and data protection could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, breach of contract claims, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.

We are required to comply with laws relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The requirements of these laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. From time to time, regulatory authorities investigate our policies or practices, and may challenge them. We are periodically subject to federal or state government investigations or qui tam actions (false claims cases initiated by private parties purporting to act on behalf of federal or state governments), which could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs or other remedial measures. For example, the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts and the Department of Health and Human Services, Officer of Inspector General have been conducting an investigation related to discounts and rebates offered or provided to certain Specialty 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K41

Risk Factors

Solutions customers as a result of qui tam actions. For more information on this investigation, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Some businesses within each of our segments are Medicare-certified suppliers or participate in other federal and state healthcare programs, such as state Medicaid programs and the federal 340B drug pricing program. In addition, some businesses manufacture pharmaceutical or medical products or repackage pharmaceuticals that are purchased or reimbursed through, or are otherwise governed by, federal or state healthcare programs. Failure to comply with applicable eligibility requirements, standards and regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.

Industry participants, including us, rely on ethylene oxide (“EtO”) to sterilize certain medical products that we manufacture or distribute. Regulatory actions have been taken by certain environmental regulatory authorities to reduce EtO emissions during the sterilization and distribution process. If such measures become more widespread, we could experience increased costs to comply with reduced emissions standards and it is possible that we and other industry participants may be unable to effectively sterilize medical products, possibly resulting in industry-wide supply shortages or a reduction in surgical or medical procedures. Such increased costs or industry-wide reductions in surgical and medical procedures would have a negative impact on our Medical segment profit. It is also possible that these regulatory actions could adversely impact our ability to procure products to distribute, resulting in increased costs or industry supply disruptions.

Our government contracts are subject to specific procurement requirements. Failure to comply with applicable rules or regulations or with contractual or other requirements may result in monetary damages and criminal or civil penalties as well as termination of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from government contract work.

Our global operations (including transition services in connection with divestitures) are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply, or are alleged to fail to comply, with any of these laws, we could be subject to investigations or suffer civil or criminal sanctions. For example, in February 2020, we paid approximately $8.4 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission to settle charges that our internal controls were not sufficient to detect improper payments made by employees of our former China distribution business. 

We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or 

challenges to our tax positions. 

We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and many foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws of many jurisdictions. 

From time to time, proposals are made in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate or tax payments. Specific 

initiatives that may impact us include possible increases in U.S. or foreign corporate income tax rates or other changes in tax law to raise revenue, the repeal of the LIFO (last-in, first-out) method of inventory accounting for income tax purposes, the establishment or increase in taxation at the U.S. state level on the basis of gross revenues, recommendations of the recently completed base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Commission’s investigation into illegal state aid. 

Additionally, in connection with the $5.63 billion pre-tax charge for the opioid litigation taken in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, and the additional $1.17 billion pre-tax charge recorded in fiscal year 2021, we recorded net tax benefits of $488 million and $228 million, respectively, reflecting our current assessment of the estimated future deductibility of the amount that may be paid. We have made reasonable estimates and recorded amounts based on management's judgment and our current understanding of the Tax Act; however, these estimates require significant judgment. 

The U.S. tax law governing deductibility was changed by the Tax Act and the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation of the Tax Act or the estimates and assumptions used to assess the future deductibility of these benefits, or tax law could change again. The actual amount of tax benefit related to uncertain tax positions may differ materially from these estimates. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for more information regarding these matters. 

In fiscal year 2021, our provision for income taxes reflects a $424 million benefit from the tax benefits of a net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act. Also as a result of this net operating loss carryback, we have filed for a U.S. federal income tax refund of $974 million. In connection with this net operating loss carryback, certain industry participants, including us, received a letter from the U.S. House of Representatives’ Committee on Oversight and Reform questioning, among other things, our plans to take tax deductions for opioid-related losses, including our use of the net operating loss carryback provisions under the CARES Act and deductibility under the Tax Act. We have responded to the letter. Additionally, legislation has been proposed that would retroactively repeal the net operating loss carryback provision of the CARES Act. If these initiatives are successful, our effective tax rate could be adversely impacted. 

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, we are subject to audit by taxing authorities for fiscal years 2015 through the current fiscal year. Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities have challenged some of our tax positions for the periods from 2011 to 2014. During fiscal year 2021, we resolved all open matters with the IRS for fiscal years 2008 to 2014, which also impacted reserves for later years. This resolution has resulted in an adjustment to our provision for income taxes. Proposed adjustments in future audits may adversely affect our effective tax rate or tax payments.

 42Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Risk Factors

Changes to the U.S. healthcare environment may not be favorable to us. 

Over a number of years, the U.S. healthcare industry has undergone significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety and patient outcomes, contain costs and increase efficiencies. These changes include a general decline in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, efforts by healthcare insurance companies to limit or reduce payments to pharmacies and providers, the basis for payments beginning to transition from a fee-for-service model to value-based payments and risk-sharing models, and the industry shifting away from traditional healthcare venues like hospitals and into clinics, physician offices and patients’ homes.

We expect the U.S. healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Possible changes include further reduction or limitations on governmental funding at the state or federal level, efforts by healthcare insurance companies to further limit payments for products and services or changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription pharmaceutical pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits. These possible changes, and the uncertainty surrounding these possible changes, may adversely affect us.

Legal proceedings could adversely impact our cash flows or results of operations.

Due to the nature of our business, which includes the distribution of controlled substances and other pharmaceutical products and the sourcing, marketing and manufacturing of medical products, we regularly become involved in disputes, litigation and regulatory matters. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and the unfavorable outcome of legal proceedings could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.

For example, we are subject to a number of lawsuits and investigations related to the national health crisis involving the abuse of opioid pain medication as described above in the Risk Factor titled "The public health crisis involving the abuse of prescription opioid pain medication and our efforts to resolve related claims could have additional or unexpected material negative effects on our business" and in Note 7 to the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

Additionally, some of the products that we distribute or manufacture have been and may in the future be alleged to cause personal injury, subjecting us to product liability claims. For example, we are a defendant in product liability lawsuits that allege personal injuries associated with the use of Cordis OptEase and TrapEase inferior vena cava (IVC) filter products and in lawsuits alleging impurities in the active pharmaceutical ingredients in certain pharmaceutical products. In addition, product liability insurance for these types of claims is becoming more limited and may not be available to us at amounts that we historically have obtained or that we would like to obtain. It is possible that a settlement of or judgment for a product liability claim may not be covered by insurance or exceed available insurance recoveries. If this happens, and if any such settlement or judgment is in excess 

of any prior accruals, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

We also operate in an industry characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products.

Business & Operational Risks

Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems, business processes, critical facilities and distribution networks.

We rely on our and third-party service providers' information systems for a wide variety of critical operations, including to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:

•facilitate the purchase and distribution of inventory items from numerous distribution centers;

•receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;

•manage accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;

•process payments to suppliers;

•facilitate manufacturing and assembly of medical products; and

•generate financial information.

Our business also depends on the proper functioning of our and our suppliers' business processes, critical facilities, including our national logistics center, and our distribution networks. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our or a service provider's business processes, information systems, critical facilities or distribution networks are disrupted (including disruption of access), are damaged or fail, whether due to physical disruptions, such as fire, natural disaster, pandemic (as they have been by the COVID-19 pandemic, as discussed above) or power outage, or due to cyber-security incidents, ransomware or other actions of third parties, including labor strikes or shortages, political unrest and terrorist attacks. Manufacturing disruptions also can occur due to regulatory action, production quality deviations, safety issues or raw material shortages or defects, or because a key product or component is manufactured at a single manufacturing facility with limited alternate facilities.

From time to time, our businesses perform business process improvements or infrastructure modernizations or use service providers for key systems and processes, such as receiving and processing customer orders, customer service and accounts payable. For example, our Pharmaceutical segment is currently engaged in a multi-year project to implement a replacement of certain finance and operating information systems and we recently transitioned certain finance processes to a third-party service provider. If any of these initiatives are not successfully or efficiently implemented or maintained, they could adversely affect our business and our internal control over financial reporting.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K43

Risk Factors

Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we experience a cyber-attack or other systems breach.

Our business relies on the secure transmission, storage and hosting of patient-identifiable health information, financial information and other sensitive protected information relating to our customers, company, workforce and individuals with whom we and our customers conduct business. We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to information security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications developed internally or procured from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security.

Unauthorized parties have gained access and will continue to attempt to gain access to our or a service provider's systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deception. We have been the target of cyber attacks, including, in prior fiscal years, incidents where certain customer account information was accessed. Although we do not believe these incidents had a material impact on us, similar incidents or events in the future may negatively impact our business, reputation or financial results.

Any compromise of our or a service provider's information systems, including unauthorized access to or use or disclosure of sensitive information, could adversely impact our operations, results of operations or our ability to satisfy legal or regulatory requirements, including the EU general data protection regulation (GDPR) and those related to patient-identifiable health information and other sensitive personal and financial information as further described in the Risk Factor titled “Our business is subject to rigorous regulatory and licensing requirements,” above.

In addition, insurance for losses arising from cyber-attacks or other breaches is becoming more costly and limited and may not be available to us at amounts that we historically have obtained or that we would like to obtain. It is possible that we could incur losses that may not be covered by insurance or that would exceed available insurance recoveries. If this happens, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Our sales and credit concentration is significant.

CVS is a large customer that generates a significant amount of our revenue. CVS accounted for 26 percent of our fiscal 2021 revenue and 24 percent of our gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2021. If CVS terminates the agreements due to an alleged default by us, defaults in payment or significantly reduces its purchases from us, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if we fail to manage and complete divestitures.

We regularly evaluate our portfolio of businesses to determine whether an asset or business may no longer help us meet our objectives or whether there may be a more advantaged owner for 

that business. For example, we recently completed the divestiture of our Cordis business, and in the past few years, we have also divested our pharmaceutical and medical products distribution business in China and our ownership interest in naviHealth, Inc. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We could also incur higher costs or charges than planned or incur unexpected charges and could experience greater dis-synergies than expected, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.

Our ability to manage and complete acquisitions could impact our strategic objectives and financial condition.

An important element of our growth strategy has been to acquire other businesses that expand or complement our existing businesses. Completion of acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses involve a number of risks, including the following: we may overpay for a business or fail to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition; our management’s attention may be diverted to integration efforts; we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments may impair the value of our purchased goodwill or intangible assets; we may face difficulties or delays establishing, integrating or combining operations and systems, including manufacturing facilities; we may assume liabilities related to legal proceedings involving the acquired business; we may face challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; or we may encounter unforeseen internal control, regulatory or compliance issues.

Our goodwill may be impaired, which would require us to record a significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

U.S. GAAP requires us to test our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. For our annual impairment test in fiscal 2021, the fair value of the Medical Unit (which includes the Cordis disposal group) exceeded its carrying value by approximately three percent. This testing involves estimates and significant judgments by management. Additional adverse changes in key assumptions, including current assumptions about the impact of the Cordis divestiture and the COVID-19 pandemic, including estimated demand and selling prices for PPE; an increase in the discount rate; a decrease in the terminal growth rate or increases in tax rates, among other things, could result in a goodwill impairment in our Medical Unit. For example, if we were to increase the discount rate by a hypothetical 0.5 percent, the carrying value of our Medical Unit would have exceeded the fair value by approximately one percent in fiscal 2021. 

It is also possible that we may record significant charges related to other reporting units. Any charge or charges could adversely affect our results of operations. See "Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates" in MD&A above for more information regarding goodwill impairment testing.

 44Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Risk Factors

Industry & Economic Risks

We could continue to suffer the adverse effects of competitive pressures.

As described in greater detail in the "Business" section, we operate in markets that are highly competitive and dynamic. In addition, competitive pressures in our pharmaceutical and medical segments may be increased by COVID-19, new business models, new entrants, new regulations, changes in consumer demand or general competitive dynamics. Our businesses face continued pricing pressure from these factors, which adversely affects our margins. If we are unable to offset margin reductions caused by these pricing pressures through steps such as sourcing or cost control measures, additional service offerings and sales of higher margin products, our results of operations could continue to be adversely affected. 

Our Pharmaceutical segment’s profit margin could be adversely affected by changes in industry or market dynamics that we are not able to accurately predict. 

In fiscal year 2021, our Pharmaceutical segment’s generics program was negatively impacted by volume declines. As has been the case for several years, the frequency, timing, magnitude and profit impact of generic pharmaceutical customer purchase volumes, pricing changes, customer contract renewals, generic pharmaceutical launches, and generic pharmaceutical manufacturer pricing changes remain uncertain as does their impact on Pharmaceutical segment profit and consolidated operating earnings. These factors have contributed to declines in some prior years and have more than offset the benefits from sourcing generic pharmaceuticals through our Red Oak Sourcing venture with CVS. If performance of our generic pharmaceutical program declines in future fiscal years and we are unable to offset the decline, our Pharmaceutical segment profit and consolidated operating earnings will be adversely affected.

With respect to branded pharmaceutical products, compensation under our contractual arrangements with manufacturers for the purchase of branded pharmaceutical products is generally based on the wholesale acquisition cost set by the manufacturer. Sales prices of branded pharmaceutical products to our customers generally are a percentage discount from wholesale acquisition cost.

Also, almost all of our distribution services agreements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers provide that we receive fees from the manufacturers to compensate us for services we provide them. However, under certain agreements, branded pharmaceutical price appreciation, which is determined by the manufacturers also serves as a part of our compensation. In recent years, manufacturers have increased prices less than in prior years. If manufacturers, in the aggregate, change their historical approach to setting and increasing wholesale acquisition cost, decide to reduce prices, not to increase prices or to implement only small increases and we are unable to negotiate alternative ways to be compensated by manufacturers or customers for the value of our services, our margins could be adversely affected.

We depend on direct and indirect suppliers to make their products and raw materials available to us and are subject to fluctuations in costs, availability and regulatory risks associated with these products and raw materials.

We depend on others to manufacture some products that we market and distribute. Our operations are also dependent on various components, compounds, raw materials and energy supplied by others. We purchase many of these components, raw materials and energy, and source certain products from numerous suppliers in various countries. In some instances, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole supplier. Our supplier relationships could be interrupted, become less favorable to us or be terminated and the supply of these components, compounds, raw materials or products could be interrupted or become insufficient. These supply interruptions or other disruptions in manufacturing processes could be caused by events beyond our control, including natural disasters, supplier facility shut-downs, defective raw materials, the impact of epidemics or pandemics, such as COVID-19, and actions by U.S. or international governments, including export restrictions or tariffs. 

In addition, due to the stringent regulatory requirements regarding the manufacture and sourcing of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components, materials or products. A sustained supply reduction or interruption, and an inability to develop alternative and additional sources for such supply, could result in lost sales, increased cost, damage to our reputation, and may have an adverse effect on our business.

Our manufacturing businesses use oil-based resins, pulp, cotton, latex and other commodities as raw materials in many products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile and can fluctuate significantly, causing our costs to produce and distribute our products to fluctuate. Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, we have experienced higher supply chain costs, primarily related to the sourcing of certain components, compounds, raw materials and commodities. Due to competitive dynamics and contractual limitations, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or surcharges, our results of operations could continue to be adversely affected.

Consolidation in the U.S. healthcare industry may negatively impact our results of operations.

In recent years, U.S. healthcare industry participants, including distributors, manufacturers, suppliers, healthcare providers, insurers and pharmacy chains, have consolidated or formed strategic alliances. Consolidations create larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, and also could result in the possible loss of a customer where the combined enterprise selects one distributor from two incumbents. If this consolidation trend continues, it could adversely affect our results of operations.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K45

Risk Factors

Changes or uncertainty in U.S. or international trade policies and exposure to economic, political and currency risks, could disrupt our global operations or negatively impact our financial results.

We conduct our operations in various regions of the world outside of the United States, including Europe, Asia and Latin America. Global developments can affect our business in many ways. Our global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and competition. Additionally, divergent or unfamiliar regulatory systems and labor markets can increase the risks and burdens of operating in numerous countries.

Our foreign operations expose us to a number of risks related to trade protection laws, tariffs, excise or other border taxes on goods sourced from certain countries or on the importation or exportation of products or raw materials. Changes or uncertainty in U.S. or international trade policies or tariffs could impact our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers. We may be required to spend more money to source certain products or materials that we need or to manufacture certain of our products. This could adversely impact our business and results of operations.

In addition, we conduct our business in U.S. dollars and various functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results, which are reported in U.S. dollars. We may not be able to hedge to protect us against these exposures, and any hedges may not successfully mitigate these exposures.

 46Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Properties and Legal Proceedings

Properties

In the United States, at June 30, 2021, the Pharmaceutical segment operated one national logistics center; a number of primary pharmaceutical and specialty distribution facilities as well as nuclear pharmacy and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. The Medical segment operated medical-surgical distribution, assembly, manufacturing and other operating facilities in the United States. 

At June 30, 2021, our Medical segment also operated manufacturing facilities in Canada, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Germany, Ireland, Japan, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico and Thailand.

Our principal executive offices are headquartered in an owned building located at 7000 Cardinal Place in Dublin, Ohio.

We consider our operating properties to be in satisfactory condition and adequate to meet our present needs. However, we regularly evaluate operating properties and may make further additions and improvements or consolidate locations as we seek opportunities to expand or enhance the efficiency of our business.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K47

Properties and Legal Proceedings

Legal Proceedings

In addition to the proceedings described below, the legal proceedings described in Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" are incorporated in this "Legal Proceedings" section by reference.

In June 2019, Melissa Cohen, a purported shareholder, filed an action on behalf of Cardinal Health, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against certain current and former members of our Board of Directors alleging that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by failing to effectively monitor Cardinal Health's distribution of controlled substances and approving certain payments of executive compensation. In December 2019 and January 2020, similar complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio by purported shareholders, Stanley M. Malone and Michael Splaine, respectively. In January, 2020, the court consolidated the derivative cases under the caption In re Cardinal Health, Inc. Derivative Litigation and in March 2020, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. The amended consolidated derivative complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified money damages against the defendants and an award of attorneys' fees. In February 2021, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants' motion to dismiss. The court dismissed the claim with respect to executive compensation but declined to dismiss the failure to monitor claim.

 48Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Market for Registrant's Common Equity

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

Our common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CAH.” 

At July 31, 2021 there were approximately 7,102 shareholders of record of our common shares.

We anticipate that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. The payment and amount of future dividends remain, however, within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. 

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Reflects 1,311, 101 and 304 common shares purchased in April, May and June 2021, respectively, through a rabbi trust as investments of participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan.

(2)On November 7, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a $1.0 billion share repurchase program that expires on December 31, 2021. As of June 30, 2021, we have $743 million authorized for share repurchases remaining under this program.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K49

Market for Registrant's Common Equity

Five Year Performance Graph

The following line graph compares the cumulative total return of our common shares with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s Composite—500 Stock Index (the "S&P 500 Index") and the Standard & Poor's Composite—500 Healthcare Index (the "S&P 500 Healthcare Index"). The line graph assumes, in each case, an initial investment of $100 invested at the closing price on June 30, 2016, and is based on the market prices at the end of each fiscal year through and including June 30, 2021, and reinvestment of dividends. The S&P 500 Index and S&P 500 Healthcare Index investments are weighted on the basis of market capitalization at the beginning of each period. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 50Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Reports

Management Reports

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We evaluated, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) as of June 30, 2021. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of June 30, 2021 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, controls deemed effective now may become inadequate in the future because of changes in conditions, or because compliance with policies or procedures has deteriorated or been circumvented.

Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2021. In making this assessment, management used the criteria established in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the “COSO criteria”). Based on management’s assessment and the COSO criteria, management believes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of June 30, 2021.

Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued a report on our internal control over financial reporting. Ernst & Young LLP’s report appears following this "Management Reports" section and expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2021 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Pharmaceutical Segment Information Technology Initiative

The Pharmaceutical segment is in a multi-year project to implement a replacement of certain finance and operating information systems. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, we transitioned selected processes to the new systems and expect that we will transition additional processes to the new systems throughout fiscal year 2022. If these new systems are not effectively implemented, or fail to operate as intended, it could adversely affect internal control over financial reporting. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K51

Reports

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Cardinal Health, Inc.

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited Cardinal Health, Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Cardinal Health, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2021, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of June 30, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of earnings/(loss), comprehensive income/(loss), shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2021, and the related notes and the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2) and our report dated August 16, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Grandview Heights, Ohio

August 16, 2021

 52Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Reports

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Cardinal Health, Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cardinal Health, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of June 30, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of earnings/(loss), comprehensive income/(loss), shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2021, and the related notes and the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at June 30, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2021, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated August 16, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matters

The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.

Medical Unit Goodwill

Description of the Matter

At June 30, 2021, goodwill related to the Company’s Medical segment, including the Medical Unit was $5.3 billion. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level. 

Auditing management’s goodwill impairment test for the Medical Unit was challenging because there is significant judgement required in determining the fair value of the reporting unit. In particular, the fair value estimate was sensitive to significant judgmental assumptions including the revenue growth rate, gross margin, distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses, and company specific risk premium, which are affected by expectations about future market or economic conditions.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K53

Reports

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 54Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Reports

How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process to assess the technical merits of its uncertain tax positions, including the Company’s assessment as to whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained and management’s process to measure the benefit of its tax positions. 

We involved our international tax, transfer pricing, and national tax professionals in assessing the technical merits of certain of the Company’s tax positions. Depending on the nature of the specific tax position and, where applicable, developments with the relevant tax authorities relating thereto, our procedures included obtaining and examining the Company’s analysis. For example, we evaluated the underlying facts upon which the tax positions are based, and, where applicable, obtained the Company’s correspondence with local tax authorities. We used our knowledge of international and local income tax laws, as well as historical settlement activity, where applicable, with local income tax authorities, to evaluate the Company’s accounting for its uncertain tax positions. We evaluated developments in the applicable tax jurisdictions to assess potential effects on the Company’s positions. We analyzed the Company’s assumptions and data used to evaluate the appropriateness of the Company’s measurement of tax benefits. We have also evaluated the Company’s income tax disclosures in relation to these matters.

Opioid Lawsuits

Description of the Matter

As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company is a defendant in numerous lawsuits brought by certain state governments, Native American tribes, and other political subdivisions related to opioid matters. The Company accrues for losses related to legal matters at the time a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In July 2021, the Company negotiated a global proposed settlement agreement (the “Proposed Settlement Agreement”), however, the Proposed Settlement Agreement is subject to contingencies. In addition, the Native American tribes and certain other sub-divisions are not included within the Proposed Settlement Agreement and are negotiated separately. The Company has accrued $6.73 billion pretax under the cash component of the Proposed Settlement Agreement and for negotiations with Native American tribes and other sub-divisions as of June 30, 2021. The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the liability associated with other plaintiffs that are not subject to the Proposed Settlement Agreement or other ongoing negotiations. Additionally, management is unable to estimate the range of possible loss associated with these matters.

Auditing the Company’s accounting for, and disclosure of, loss contingencies related to the opioid lawsuits was challenging due to the significant judgment required to evaluate management’s assessment of the likelihood of a loss being incurred and management’s determination of whether a reasonable estimate of the range of loss can be made.

How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the identification and evaluation of this legal contingency. For example, we tested controls over management’s review of the assessment of the probability of occurrence of a loss and whether the loss was reasonably estimable and whether the assessment considered all relevant facts.

To test the Company’s assessment of the probability of a loss and whether the loss was reasonably estimable, among other procedures, we read the Proposed Settlement Agreement, requested and received internal and external legal counsel confirmation letters, met with internal counsel to discuss the status of the proceedings and negotiations of the Proposed Settlement Agreement and negotiations with other plaintiffs, and evaluated the reasonableness of management’s assessment regarding whether an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible or probable and reasonably estimable. We also assessed the adequacy and the sufficiency of the Company’s disclosures included in Note 7 in relation to these matters.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2002.

Grandview Heights, Ohio

August 16, 2021

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K55

Financial Statements