Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Our MD&A within this Form 10-K generally discusses fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020. Fiscal 2019 items and discussions of year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 (the "Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K").

Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This report (including information incorporated by reference) includes forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. Many forward-looking statements appear in MD&A and Risk Factors, but there are others throughout this report, which may be identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “project,” “continue,” “likely,” and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and expense accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described in “Risk Factors” in this report and in Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 10-K included in this report. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this document. Except to the extent required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the “Investor Relations — Financial Reporting — SEC Filings” caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies.

 2Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&AAbout Cardinal Health

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

About Cardinal Health

Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation formed in 1979, is a globally integrated healthcare services and products company providing customized solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems, pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories, physician offices and patients in the home. We provide pharmaceuticals and medical products and cost-effective solutions that enhance supply chain efficiency. We connect patients, providers, payers, pharmacists and manufacturers for integrated care coordination and better patient management. We manage our business and report our financial results in two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical.

Pharmaceutical Segment

Our Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products in the United States. This segment also provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers for specialty pharmaceutical products; operates nuclear pharmacies and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; provides pharmacy management services to hospitals, as well as medication therapy management and patient outcomes services to hospitals, other healthcare providers and payers; and repackages generic pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products. 

Medical Segment

Our Medical segment manufactures, sources and distributes Cardinal Health branded medical, surgical and laboratory products, which are sold in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets. In addition to distributing Cardinal Health branded products, this segment also distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products known as national brand products and provides supply chain services and solutions to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States and Canada. This segment also distributes medical products to patients' homes in the United States through our Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K3

MD&AResults of Operations

Consolidated Results

Fiscal 2021 Overview

Revenue

Revenue for fiscal 2021 was $162.5 billion, a 6 percent increase from the prior year, primarily due to sales growth from pharmaceutical distribution and specialty solutions customers.

GAAP and Non-GAAP Operating Earnings/(Loss)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components and certain computations may reflect rounding adjustments.

We had GAAP operating earnings of $472 million and a GAAP operating loss of $4.1 billion during fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, which includes pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion and $5.63 billion, respectively, recognized for the estimated liability associated with lawsuits and claims brought against us by states and political subdivisions relating to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications. See further description of opioid lawsuits in the Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

GAAP and Non-GAAP operating earnings during fiscal 2021 were adversely impacted by COVID-19, which includes an inventory reserve recorded to reduce the carrying value of certain Medical segment personal protective equipment, primarily certain categories of gloves, to net realizable value. Personal protective equipment ("PPE") refers to protective clothing, medical and non-medical grade gloves, face shields, face masks and other equipment designed to protect the wearer from injury or the spread of infection or illness. See Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A for additional information. Volume declines in our Pharmaceutical segment generics program, which includes the impact of COVID-19, also had an adverse impact. These factors were partially offset by the beneficial impact of enterprise-wide cost-savings measures, including global manufacturing efficiencies in the Medical segment, and higher contribution from branded pharmaceutical sales mix.

GAAP and Non-GAAP Diluted EPS 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components and certain computations may reflect rounding adjustments.

(1)Diluted earnings/(loss) per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. ("diluted EPS" or "diluted loss per share")

(2)The reconciling items are presented within this table net of tax, except for transitional tax benefit, net. See quantification of tax effect of each reconciling item in our GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations in the section titled "Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures." 

 4Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

(3)For fiscal 2020, GAAP diluted loss per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. and the EPS impact from the GAAP to non-GAAP per share reconciling items are calculated using a weighted average of 293 million common shares, which excludes potentially dilutive securities from the denominator due to their anti-dilutive effects resulting from our GAAP net loss for the period. Fiscal 2020 non-GAAP diluted EPS is calculated using a weighted average of 295 million common shares, which includes potentially dilutive shares.

(4)Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, includes a tax benefit recorded during fiscal 2021 related to a net operating loss carryback. Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and adjusted our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 as permitted under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (“CARES”) Act. The total benefit from the net operating loss carryback was $424 million; however, for purposes of Non-GAAP financial measures, we allocated $389 million of the benefit to litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, which is excluded from non-GAAP measures, based on the relative amount of the self-insurance pre-tax loss related to opioid litigation claims versus separate tax adjustments. The tax benefit allocated to the separate tax adjustments of $35 million is included in non-GAAP measures.

The charges we recognized in fiscal 2021 and 2020 for the estimated liability associated with lawsuits and claims brought against us by states and political subdivisions relating to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications had a $(3.21) and $(17.54) per share after-tax impact on GAAP diluted EPS, respectively. 

During fiscal 2021, GAAP and non-GAAP diluted EPS were positively impacted by $1.44 and $0.12 per share, respectively, due to a tax benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily related to a self-insurance pre-tax loss, as further described in Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

GAAP diluted EPS during fiscal 2020 was favorably impacted by a $1.68 per share gain from the sale of the remainder of our equity interest in naviHealth described further in Note 2 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

Cash and Equivalents

Our cash and equivalents balance was $3.4 billion at June 30, 2021 compared to $2.8 billion at June 30, 2020. The increase in cash during fiscal 2021 was due to net cash provided by operating activities of $2.4 billion, offset by cash deployed of $573 million for dividends, $570 million for debt repayments, $400 million for capital expenditures, and $200 million for share repurchases.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K5

MD&AResults of Operations

Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends

COVID-19

The COVID-19 pandemic ("COVID-19") continues to affect the U.S. and global economies, and as previously disclosed, the pandemic began to materially affect our businesses during the third quarter of fiscal 2020. The length and severity of the pandemic and its impacts on our businesses and results of operations are uncertain.

COVID-19 had a negative impact on our consolidated operating earnings/(loss) in fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020. We estimate that the impact on fiscal 2021 operating earnings was approximately $200 million greater than on fiscal 2020 operating earnings, and we estimate that the impact on fiscal 2020 operating earnings/(loss) was approximately $100 million.

Pharmaceutical segment profit has been negatively impacted by COVID-19 largely due to volume declines in our generics program and Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions. While fiscal 2021 volumes within our generics program were lower than levels prior to COVID-19, the impact on Pharmaceutical segment profit improved on a year-over-year basis during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Similarly, in comparison to prior year, the impact of COVID-19 on Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions was positive for Pharmaceutical segment profit during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021.

Our Medical segment experienced dramatically increased demand for certain personal protective equipment due to COVID-19. Personal protective equipment ("PPE") refers to protective clothing, medical and non-medical grade gloves, face shields, face masks and other equipment designed to protect the wearer from injury or the spread of infection or illness. The peak of this heightened demand was during the second and third quarters of fiscal 2021. This increased demand resulted in higher sales volume for certain products, increased costs to manufacture and source these products and higher inventory levels to meet customer commitments. As a result, we sought out additional sources for these products and to mitigate the impact of these cost increases, we have raised our selling prices for the affected products. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, selling prices and customer demand for certain PPE decreased as compared to the peak, and we expect this decline to continue into fiscal 2022. This resulted in inventory cost above net realizable value, requiring an inventory reserve of $197 million, primarily related to certain categories of gloves, which adversely impacted Medical segment profit. Our estimates for customer demand and selling prices are inherently uncertain and if customer demand or selling prices decline in the future beyond our current assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required that would adversely impact Medical segment profit. See Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates section in this MD&A for additional information.

During fiscal 2021, COVID-19 benefited Medical segment profit in some ways as well. Higher volumes in our laboratory business and cost savings positively impacted Medical segment profit. Additionally, despite declining customer demand and selling prices in some categories of PPE as described above, Medical segment profit was benefited by pricing actions intended to mitigate the impact of cost increases in certain other PPE categories. In addition, while lower demand for surgical products resulting from reduced elective procedures had an adverse impact on Medical segment profit during the first nine months of fiscal 2021, demand improved during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and was a positive contributor to year-over-year segment profit.

We currently anticipate that the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on operating earnings will be less in fiscal 2022 than it was in fiscal 2021, which includes the inventory reserve of $197 million described above. As a result, in comparison to prior year, we expect the COVID-19 impact for fiscal 2022 will be positive. However, we cannot estimate the length or severity of the COVID-19 pandemic or of the related U.S. or global economic consequences on our businesses and results of operations, including whether and when historic economic and operating conditions will resume, or its impact on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Its impact may be greater or less than we anticipate.

Opioid Lawsuits

In July 2021, we announced that we and two other national distributors have negotiated a proposed settlement agreement (the “Proposed Settlement Agreement”) and settlement process that, if all conditions are satisfied (including Boards of Directors' approval), would result in the settlement of the vast majority of opioid lawsuits filed by state and local governmental entities. 

West Virginia subdivisions and Native American tribes are not a part of this settlement process and we have been involved in separate negotiations with these groups. The settlement process does not contemplate participation by any non-governmental or non-political entities or individuals. In connection with the negotiations of the Proposed Settlement Agreement, we and the two other national distributors entered into a settlement with the State of New York and its participating subdivisions. If the Proposed Settlement Agreement becomes effective, New York and its participating subdivisions will become a part of it. 

 6Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

The Proposed Settlement Agreement is subject to contingencies and will not become effective unless and until the Boards of Directors of the three distributors each make separate independent determinations that (1) following a sign-on period, a sufficient number of states have agreed to the Proposed Settlement Agreement (the “Settling States”); and, subsequently, (2) following a notice period, that a sufficient number of states and political subdivisions, including those that have not sued, have agreed to the Agreement (or otherwise had their claims foreclosed) to proceed to effectiveness. Prior to the second determination, the Settling States will also have an opportunity to make a determination as to whether a sufficient number of political subdivisions have agreed to the Proposed Settlement Agreement (or otherwise had their claims foreclosed) to proceed with the Proposed Settlement Agreement. This process is currently contemplated to end in February 2022, although it may be extended by agreement. It is possible that a sufficient number of states and subdivisions will not agree to the Proposed Settlement Agreement or that other required contingencies will not be satisfied.

If these conditions are satisfied, the Proposed Settlement Agreement would become effective 60 days after the distributors determine that there is sufficient participation among political subdivisions. During this 60-day period, the Settling States and the distributors would cooperate to obtain consent judgments in each participating state embodying the terms of the Settlement. 

The Proposed Settlement Agreement includes a cash component, pursuant to which the Company would pay up to $6.37 billion, the majority of which would be paid over 18 years. The exact payment amount will depend on several factors, including the participation rate of states and political subdivisions, the extent to which states take action to foreclose opioid lawsuits by political subdivisions (e.g., laws barring opioid lawsuits by political subdivisions), and the extent to which political subdivisions in Settling States file additional opioid lawsuits against the Company after the Proposed Settlement Agreement becomes effective.

The Proposed Settlement Agreement also includes injunctive relief terms relating to settling distributors’ controlled substance anti-diversion programs, including with respect to: (1) governance; (2) independence and training of the personnel operating our controlled substances monitoring program; (3) due diligence for new and existing customers; (4) ordering limits for certain products; and (5) suspicious order monitoring. A monitor will be selected to oversee compliance with these provisions for a period of five years. In addition, we and the two other national distributors will engage a third-party vendor to act as a clearinghouse for data aggregation and reporting; distributors will fund the clearinghouse for ten years.

Additionally, a trial before a judge in West Virginia in the Cabell County and City of Huntington cases concluded in July 2021 and the judge has not yet issued a decision. In addition, a trial in the case brought by the Ohio Attorney General is scheduled to begin in September 2021 and a trial in the case brought by the Washington Attorney General is scheduled to begin in November 2021. The Ohio Attorney General has issued a press release indicating support for the Proposed Settlement Agreement; however, the Washington Attorney General has issued a press release stating that Washington will not agree to the Proposed Settlement Agreement. 

In connection with the opioid lawsuits and settlement negotiations, we have recorded total pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion and $5.63 billion in litigation charges/(recoveries), net in the years ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. In total, we have $6.73 billion accrued at June 30, 2021, of which $405 million is included in other accrued liabilities, as we expect to make our first annual settlement payment into escrow on or before September 30, 2021, and the remainder is included in deferred income taxes and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Because loss contingencies are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable developments or resolutions can occur, the assessment is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review these opioid litigation matters to determine whether our accrual is adequate. The amount of ultimate loss may differ materially from this accrual. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

Tax Effect of Opioid Litigation Charges

The net tax benefits associated with the opioid litigation charges are $228 million and $488 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our tax benefits are estimates, which reflect our current assessment of the estimated future deductibility of the amount that may be paid under the accrual taken in connection with the opioid litigation and are net of unrecognized tax benefits of $219 million and $469 million, respectively. The fiscal 2021 net tax benefit and unrecognized tax benefits were primarily due to our assessment of the specific terms of the Proposed Settlement Agreement. Our assumptions and estimates around this benefit and uncertain tax position require significant judgment and the actual amount of tax benefit may differ materially from these estimates. See Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

Tax Effects of Self-Insurance Pre-Tax Loss

During fiscal 2021, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and applied to adjust our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 as permitted under the CARES Act enacted by the United States Congress in March 2020.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K7

MD&AResults of Operations

Accordingly, our provision for income taxes during fiscal 2021 included a $424 million benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily to reflect the difference between the federal statutory income tax rate during the fiscal years from 2015 to 2018 (35 percent for fiscal 2015, 2016, and 2017 and 28 percent for fiscal 2018) and the current federal statutory income tax rate of 21 percent.

We have filed for a U.S. federal income tax refund of $974 million as a result of the net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act, which we expect to receive within 12 months, and accordingly have recorded a current asset on our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2021. We also increased our non-current deferred tax liability by approximately $700 million during fiscal 2021 related to this matter.

We have recorded these amounts based on management's judgment and our current understanding of tax law; however, it is possible that the tax authorities could challenge these tax benefits or that the tax law could change. The actual amount or timing of the tax benefit may differ from these expectations. See Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

Cordis Divestiture

On March 12, 2021, we announced that we signed a definitive agreement to sell our Cordis business to Hellman & Friedman for proceeds of $927 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments, and we retained certain working capital accounts and product liability for lawsuits and claims related to inferior vena cava ("IVC") filters in the U.S. and Canada as described in Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” The transaction closed on August 2, 2021, and we received proceeds of $927 million, net of cash transferred. In connection with the closing, we entered into a Transition Services Agreement ("TSA") with the buyer to provide support functions for a period of up to twenty-four months following the sale. See Note 2 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

During fiscal 2021, we recognized a $60 million pre-tax write-down of the net assets held for sale in impairment and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets in the consolidated statement of earnings/(loss). We recorded a net tax expense of $9 million associated with the impact of the write-down and the required tax adjustments related to held for sale accounting. 

In connection with the divestiture, during fiscal 2021 we recognized costs of $28 million associated with exit or disposal activities. We expect to record up to $100 million of additional costs associated with these activities, primarily during fiscal 2022. These costs are recorded in restructuring and employee severance in our consolidated statements of earnings/(loss). We expect these charges to consist of approximately $83 million of professional, project management and other service fees to support the divestiture; $19 million of employee-related costs; and additional expenses from facility exits and other restructuring activities.

We expect the divestiture of the Cordis business will decrease annual Medical segment revenue by approximately $800 million and adversely impact Medical segment profit by approximately $80 million. The divestiture of our Cordis business is subject to risks and uncertainties that may further adversely impact Medical segment profit. For example, the TSA period may be extended beyond our current expectations or could have unintended consequences, and the costs associated with the exit or disposal activities and stranded costs could be greater than anticipated.

Pharmaceutical Segment

The performance of our Pharmaceutical segment generics program adversely impacted the year-over-year comparison of Pharmaceutical segment profit in fiscal 2021 due to volume declines in our generics program, including the impact of COVID-19. The Pharmaceutical segment generics program includes, among other things, the impact of generic pharmaceutical product launches, customer volumes, pricing changes and the Red Oak Sourcing, LLC venture ("Red Oak Sourcing") with CVS Health Corporation ("CVS Health"). In August 2021, we amended our agreement with CVS Health to extend the term of the Red Oak Sourcing agreement through June 2029. The frequency, timing, magnitude and profit impact of generic pharmaceutical customer volumes, pricing changes, customer contract renewals, and branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturer pricing changes remain uncertain as does their impact on Pharmaceutical segment profit and consolidated operating earnings in fiscal 2022.

Medical Segment

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, our Medical segment experienced increased supply chain costs, primarily related to transportation, labor and commodities. While we are taking actions to mitigate the impact of these and other sourcing cost increases primarily through cost-savings measures, including global manufacturing efficiencies, we expect these increased costs to adversely impact Medical segment profit in fiscal 2022.

 8Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

Information Technology Investments

Our Pharmaceutical segment is in a multi-year project to implement a replacement of certain finance and operating systems. Within the Medical segment, Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions is also investing in a system transformation. We expect that these investments will result in increased project-related expenses and depreciation related to capital expenditures, which will negatively impact operating earnings and segment profit in fiscal 2022 and beyond.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K9

MD&AResults of Operations

Results of Operations

Revenue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 

Pharmaceutical Segment

Fiscal 2021 Pharmaceutical segment revenue grew by $8.3 billion primarily due to sales growth from pharmaceutical distribution and specialty solutions customers, which together increased revenue by $8.1 billion.

Medical Segment

Fiscal 2021 Medical segment revenue increased primarily within products and distribution, which increased revenue by $1.1 billion, primarily due to a net benefit from COVID-19, including the positive impact of PPE and higher volumes in our laboratory business.

Cost of Products Sold

Cost of products sold for fiscal 2021 increased $9.6 billion (7 percent) due to the factors affecting the changes in revenue and gross margin.

 10Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

Gross Margin

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 

Fiscal 2021 consolidated gross margin decreased primarily due to the adverse impact of COVID-19, which includes an inventory reserve recorded to reduce the carrying value of certain Medical segment PPE, primarily certain categories of gloves, to net realizable value, partially offset by higher volumes in our laboratory business. For additional information regarding inventory reserves, see Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A. Volume declines in our Pharmaceutical segment generics program, which includes the impact of COVID-19, also had an adverse impact. These factors were partially offset by higher contribution from branded pharmaceutical sales mix and the beneficial comparison of the current year insurance recoveries with the prior-year charge in connection with a voluntary recall for certain surgical gowns and a voluntary recall and field actions for surgical procedure packs containing affected gowns (together, the "Recalls").

Gross margin rate declined during fiscal 2021 mainly due to changes in pharmaceutical distribution product sales mix and an inventory reserve recorded to reduce the carrying value of certain Medical segment PPE to net realizable value. While branded pharmaceutical sales contributed positively to gross margin dollars during fiscal 2021, they had a dilutive impact on our overall gross margin rate.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K11

MD&AResults of Operations

Distribution, Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 

Fiscal 2021 SG&A expenses decreased primarily due to the beneficial impact of enterprise-wide cost-savings measures. The year-over-year comparison was also favorably impacted by the $37 million charge in connection with the Recalls recognized during fiscal 2020. These factors were partially offset by information technology investments and the $41 million assessment on prescription opioid medications that were sold or distributed in New York state in calendar years 2017 and 2018. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information on the New York Opioid Stewardship Act.

 12Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

Segment Profit

We evaluate segment performance based on segment profit, among other measures. See Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information on segment profit.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 

Pharmaceutical Segment Profit

Fiscal 2021 Pharmaceutical segment profit was adversely impacted due to volume declines in our generics program, including the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by higher contribution from branded pharmaceutical sales mix.

Pharmaceutical segment financial results do not include the $1.17 billion and $5.63 billion charges associated with the opioid litigation during fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information. In addition, Pharmaceutical segment financial results do not include the $41 million assessment on prescription opioid medications that were sold or distributed in New York state in calendar years 2017 and 2018. See Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information on the New York Opioid Stewardship Act.

Medical Segment Profit

Fiscal 2021 Medical segment profit decreased largely due to the adverse impact of COVID-19, which primarily includes an inventory reserve recorded to reduce the carrying value of certain PPE, primarily certain categories of gloves, to net realizable value, partially offset by higher volumes in our laboratory business. In addition, enterprise-wide cost-savings measures, including global manufacturing efficiencies, had a positive impact on Medical segment profit.

Corporate

The changes in Corporate during fiscal 2021 are due to the factors discussed in the Other Components of Consolidated Operating Earnings/(Loss) section that follows.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K13

MD&AResults of Operations

Other Components of Consolidated Operating Earnings/(Loss)

In addition to revenue, gross margin, and SG&A expenses discussed previously, consolidated operating earnings/(loss) were impacted by the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Restructuring and Employee Severance

In fiscal 2021, restructuring costs were primarily related to the implementation of certain enterprise-wide cost-savings measures and the divestiture of our Cordis business. In fiscal 2020, restructuring costs were primarily related to the implementation of certain enterprise-wide cost-savings measures.

Amortization and Other Acquisition-Related Costs

Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $428 million and $512 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

Impairments and (Gain)/Loss on Disposal of Assets, Net

During fiscal 2021, we recognized a $60 million pre-tax write-down of the assets held for sale from the divestiture of our Cordis business. See the Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 2 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

Litigation (Recoveries)/Charges, Net

During fiscal 2021 and 2020, we recognized pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion and $5.63 billion, respectively, associated with certain opioid matters. See Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information.

During fiscal 2021 and 2020, we recognized $56 million and $103 million, respectively, of estimated losses and legal defense costs associated with the IVC filter product liability claims.

During fiscal 2021 and 2020, we recognized income of $112 million and $16 million, respectively, for recoveries in class action antitrust lawsuits in which we were a class member.

Other Components of Earnings/(Loss) Before Income Taxes

In addition to the items discussed above, earnings/(loss) before income taxes was impacted by the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other (Income)/Expense, Net

During fiscal 2021, other (income)/expense, net was favorable compared to the prior-year period primarily due to an increase in the value of our deferred compensation plan investments, which offsets fluctuations included within SG&A expenses and is discussed further in Note 9 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements," gains on investments in non-marketable equity securities, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.

Interest Expense, Net

Fiscal 2021 interest expense decreased from fiscal 2020 primarily due to lower debt outstanding and lower short-term interest rates.

Loss On Early Extinguishment Of Debt

During fiscal 2021 and 2020, we recognized losses of $14 million and $16 million, respectively, in connection with the redemption and early debt repurchases as described further in Note 6 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

(Gain)/Loss on Sale of Equity Interest in naviHealth

During fiscal 2020, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $579 million from the sale of our equity interest in a partnership that owned naviHealth, as described further in Note 2 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 

 14Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&AResults of Operations

Provision for Income Taxes

Fluctuations in the effective tax rates are primarily due to the impact of opioid litigation in fiscal 2021 and 2020, as well as the impact of the carryback claim filed in accordance with the CARES Act provision in fiscal year 2021.

A reconciliation of the provision based on the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate from continuing operations is as follows (see Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The table represents the following: fiscal 2021 is pretax income with tax benefit and fiscal 2020 is pretax loss with tax benefit.

(2) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

(3) Includes the tax impact of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ("GILTI") tax, the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction and other foreign income that is taxable under the U.S. tax code.

Fiscal 2021 

During fiscal 2021 and 2020, the effective tax rate was (89.7) percent and 2.1 percent, respectively. Included in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was a $424 million benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily related to a self-insurance pre-tax loss. Included in both 2021 and 2020 were net tax benefits related to the treatment of the tax impacts of the fiscal 2021 and 2020 opioid litigation charges.

Tax Effects of Self-Insurance Pre-tax Loss

During fiscal 2021, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and applied to adjust our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 as permitted under the CARES Act enacted by the United States Congress in March 2020.

Accordingly, our provision for income taxes during fiscal 2021 included a $424 million benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily to reflect the difference between the federal statutory income tax rate during the fiscal years from 2015 to 2018 (35 percent for fiscal 2015, 2016, and 2017 and 28 percent for fiscal 2018) and the current federal statutory income tax rate of 21 percent.

We have filed for a U.S. federal income tax refund of $974 million as a result of the net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act, which we expect to receive within 12 months, and accordingly have recorded a current asset on our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2021. We also increased our non-current deferred tax liability by approximately $700 million during fiscal 2021 related to this matter.

Tax Effect of Opioid Litigation Charges

The net tax benefits associated with the opioid litigation charges are $228 million and $488 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our tax benefits are estimates, which reflect our current assessment of the estimated future deductibility of the amount that may be paid under the accrual taken in connection with the opioid litigation and are net of unrecognized tax benefits of $219 million and $469 million, respectively. The fiscal 2021 net tax benefit and unrecognized tax benefits were primarily due to our assessment of the specific terms of the Proposed Settlement Agreement. Our assumptions and estimates around this benefit and uncertain tax position require significant judgment and the actual amount of tax benefit may differ materially from these estimates. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K15

MD&AResults of Operations

Ongoing Audits

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, we are subject to audit by taxing authorities for fiscal years 2015 through the current fiscal year. Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. During fiscal 2021, we resolved all open issues with respect to the Company’s activity within fiscal years 2008 through 2014 with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). This resolution resulted in an adjustment to our provision for income taxes, including an impact to reserves for later years. New challenges related to future audits may adversely affect our effective tax rate or tax payments.

 16Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We currently believe that, based on available capital resources (cash on hand and committed credit facilities) and projected operating cash flow, we have adequate capital resources to fund working capital needs; currently anticipated capital expenditures; currently anticipated business growth and expansion; contractual obligations; tax payments; current and projected debt service requirements, early extinguishment of debt, dividends and share repurchases; and potential opioid litigation settlement payments associated with the Proposed Settlement Agreement. If we decide to engage in one or more acquisitions, depending on the size and timing of such transactions, we may need to access capital markets for additional financing.

Cash and Equivalents

Our cash and equivalents balance was $3.4 billion at June 30, 2021 compared to $2.8 billion at June 30, 2020. The increase in cash during fiscal 2021 was due to net cash provided by operating activities of $2.4 billion, offset by cash deployed of $573 million for dividends, $570 million for debt repayments, $400 million for capital expenditures and $200 million for share repurchases. At June 30, 2021, our cash and equivalents were held in cash depository accounts with major banks or invested in high quality, short-term liquid investments.

During fiscal 2020, our cash and equivalents increased due to $2.0 billion of net cash provided by operating activities, which reflects increases to working capital associated with the timing of payments to vendors, and $886 million of net cash proceeds from the sale of investments, substantially all of which was related to the sale of our equity interest in naviHealth, offset by cash deployed of $1.4 billion for debt repayments, $569 million for dividends and $350 million for share repurchases.

Changes in working capital, which impact operating cash flow, can vary significantly depending on factors such as the timing of customer payments, inventory purchases, payments to vendors and tax payments in the regular course of business, as well as 

fluctuating working capital needs driven by customer and product mix.

The cash and equivalents balance at June 30, 2021 included $523 million of cash and equivalents held by subsidiaries outside of the United States.

In June 2021, we returned $127 million of cash held by foreign subsidiaries to the U.S.

As of June 30, 2021, foreign earnings of approximately $825 million are considered indefinitely reinvested for working capital and other offshore investment needs. The computation of tax required if those earnings are repatriated is not practicable. For amounts not considered indefinitely reinvested, we have recorded an immaterial amount of income tax expense in our financial statements in fiscal 2021.

Other Financing Arrangements and Financial Instruments

Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper

In addition to cash and equivalents and operating cash flow, other sources of liquidity at June 30, 2021 include a $2.0 billion commercial paper program, backed by a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility. We also have a $1.0 billion committed receivables sales facility. At June 30, 2021, we had no amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility or our committed receivables sales facility. During fiscal 2021, under our commercial paper program and our committed receivables program, we had maximum combined total daily amounts outstanding of $200 million and an immaterial average combined daily amount outstanding.

Our revolving credit and committed receivables sales facilities require us to maintain a consolidated net leverage ratio of no more than 3.75-to-1. As of June 30, 2021, we were in compliance with this financial covenant. 

Long-Term Obligations

At June 30, 2021, we had total long-term obligations, including the current portion and other short-term borrowings of $6.2 billion. 

In June 2021, we redeemed all outstanding 3.2% Notes due June 2022 for $238 million and $262 million aggregate principle amount of 2.616% Notes due June 2022 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest, plus the make-whole premium applicable to the notes. In connection with these redemptions, we recorded a $13 million loss on early extinguishment of debt. 

During fiscal 2021, we also early repurchased $40 million of the Floating Rate Notes due 2022 and $2 million of the 2.616% Notes due 2022 with available cash. In connection with the early debt repurchases, we recorded a $1 million loss on early extinguishment of debt.

In June 2020, we redeemed $500 million aggregate principle amount of 4.625% Notes due December 2020 at a redemption 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K17

MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources

price equal to 100% of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest, plus the make-whole premium applicable to the notes. In connection with the redemption, we recorded a $7 million loss on early extinguishment of debt. 

During fiscal 2020, we also early repurchased $247 million of the 2.616% Notes due 2022, $11 million of the 3.2% Notes due 2022, $20 million of the Floating Rate Notes due 2022, $104 million of the 3.41% Notes due 2027, $6 million of the 4.6% Notes due 2043, $5 million of the 4.9% Notes due 2045, and $35 million of the 4.368% Notes due 2047. In connection with these early debt repurchases, we recognized a $9 million loss on early extinguishment of debt. 

The redemption and repurchases were paid for with available cash and other short-term borrowings.

On August 13, 2021, we announced our intention to early redeem all remaining outstanding 2.616% Notes due June 2022 on 

September 15, 2021 at an expected redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest, plus the make-whole premium applicable to the notes.

Risk Management

We use interest rate swaps, foreign currency contracts and commodity contracts to manage our exposure to cash flow variability. We also use interest rate swaps to protect the value of our debt and use foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of our existing and forecasted foreign currency assets and liabilities. See the "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" section as well as Note 1 and Note 10 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives as well as foreign currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.

Anticipated Capital Resources

Tax Effects of Self-Insurance Pre-tax Loss

In connection with a tax benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily related to a self-insurance pre-tax loss as described further in Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements," we have filed for a U.S. federal income tax refund of $974 million, which we expect to receive within 12 months. Accordingly, we have recorded a current asset for this amount on our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2021. We also increased our non-current deferred tax liability by approximately $700 million during fiscal 2021 related to this matter.

Cordis Divestiture

On March 12, 2021, we announced that we signed a definitive agreement to sell our Cordis business to Hellman & Friedman for proceeds of $927 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments, and we retained certain working capital accounts and certain liabilities. The transaction closed on August 2, 2021 and we received proceeds of $927 million, net of cash transferred.

Capital Deployment

Opioid Settlement Framework

We had $6.73 billion accrued at June 30, 2021 related to certain opioid litigation, including the Proposed Settlement Agreement, as further described within the Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." We expect the majority of the payment amounts to be spread over 18 years. We currently expect to make our first annual settlement payment under the Proposed Settlement Agreement in the amount of $405 million into escrow on or before September 30, 2021. If the Proposed Settlement Agreement does not become effective, this payment will be returned to us. We expect to make subsequent annual payments beginning in July 2022.

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures during fiscal 2021 and 2020 were $400 million and $375 million, respectively.

We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2022 to be between $400 million and $450 million and to be primarily for information technology and infrastructure projects. 

 18Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources

Dividends

During fiscal 2021, we paid quarterly dividends totaling $1.94 per share, an increase of 1 percent from fiscal 2020.

On May 5, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.4908 per share, or $1.96 per share on an annualized basis, which was paid on July 15, 2021 to shareholders of record on July 1, 2021.

On August 4, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.4908 per share, payable on October 15, 2021 to shareholders of record on October 1, 2021.

Share Repurchases

During fiscal 2021 and 2020, we repurchased $200 million and $350 million, respectively, of our common shares. We funded the repurchases with available cash and short-term borrowings. See Note 11 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information. At June 30, 2021, we had $743 million authorized for share repurchases remaining on a program that expires on December 31, 2021.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K19

MD&AOther

Contractual Obligations

At June 30, 2021, our contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents maturities of our long-term debt obligations and other short-term borrowings excluding finance lease obligations described below. See Note 6 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information.

(2)Represents minimum finance lease obligations included within current portion of long-term obligations and other short-term borrowings and long-term obligations, less current portion in our consolidated balance sheets and further described in Note 5 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

(3)Represents minimum operating lease obligations included within other accrued liabilities and deferred income taxes and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets and further described in Note 5 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

(4)A purchase obligation is defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is legally enforceable and specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or 

variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which we are obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally canceled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from our total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. Purchase obligations and other payments also includes quarterly payments to CVS Health Corporation in connection with Red Oak Sourcing, which also reflects the August 2021 amendment to extend the term through June 2029. See Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.

(5)Long-term liabilities, such as unrecognized tax benefits, deferred taxes and other tax liabilities, have been excluded from the above table due to the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions or because of the inability to reasonably estimate the timing of any cash outflows. See Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion of income taxes.

(6)Total contractual obligations do not include payments that may be made in connection with the opioid litigation, as further described in Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A and Note 7 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." In July 2021, we announced that we and two other national distributors have negotiated the Proposed Settlement Agreement and settlement process that, if all conditions are satisfied, would result in the settlement of the vast majority of opioid lawsuits filed by state and local governmental entities. The Proposed Settlement Agreement is subject to certain contingencies and includes a cash component, pursuant to which the Company would pay up to approximately $6.37 billion, the majority of which would be paid over 18 years. We currently expect to make our first annual settlement payment of $405 million into escrow on or before September 30, 2021. If the settlement agreement does not become effective, this payment will be returned to us. We expect subsequent annual payments to be made beginning in July 2022.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We had no significant "off-balance sheet arrangements" at June 30, 2021, as that term is defined in the SEC rules.

Recent Financial Accounting Standards

See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards.

 20Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that (i) can have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations and (ii) require the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and management’s judgment. Other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because estimates are inherently uncertain, actual results may differ. In this section, we describe the significant policies applied in preparing our consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on estimates and assumptions. For further discussion of accounting policies for items within this section and of additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect the U.S. and global economies, and as previously disclosed, the pandemic began to materially affect our businesses during the third quarter of fiscal 2020. The length and severity of the pandemic and its impacts on our businesses and results of operations are uncertain.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The allowance for doubtful accounts includes general and specific reserves. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by reviewing accounts receivable aging, historical write-off trends, payment history, industry trends, customer financial strength, customer credit ratings or bankruptcies. We regularly evaluate how changes in economic conditions, including the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, may affect credit risks. See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information on our policy for Receivables and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.

A hypothetical 0.1 percent increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables at June 30, 2021, would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of $9 million. We believe the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2021 are appropriate.

At this time, we are not aware of any analytical findings or customer issues that are likely to lead to a significant future increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s 

amended accounting guidance that requires entities to measure credit losses on trade and other receivables using an "expected credit loss" model that considers historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts was effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. This guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures. The following table presents information regarding our allowance for doubtful accounts over the past three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.

Inventories

LIFO Inventory

A portion of our inventories (50 percent and 56 percent at June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively) are valued at the lower of cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method, or market. These are primarily merchandise inventories at the core pharmaceutical distribution facilities within our Pharmaceutical segment (“distribution facilities”). The LIFO impact on the consolidated statements of earnings/(loss) depends on pharmaceutical manufacturer price appreciation or deflation and our fiscal year-end inventory levels, which can be meaningfully influenced by customer buying behavior immediately preceding our fiscal year-end. Historically, prices for branded pharmaceuticals have generally tended to rise, resulting in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals generally tend to decline, resulting in a decrease in cost of products sold. See Note 1 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information on our policy for Inventories.

Using LIFO, if there is a decrease in inventory levels that have experienced pharmaceutical price appreciation, the result generally will be a decrease in future cost of products sold as our older inventory is held at a lower cost. Conversely, if there is a decrease in inventory levels that have experienced a pharmaceutical price decline, the result generally will be an increase in future cost of products sold as our older inventory is held at a higher cost. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K21

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

We believe that the average cost method of inventory valuation provides a reasonable approximation of the current cost of replacing inventory within these distribution facilities. As such, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. At June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively, inventories valued at LIFO cost were $565 million and $411 million higher than the average cost value. We do not record inventories in excess of replacement cost. As such, we did not write-up the value of our inventory from average cost to LIFO cost at June 30, 2021 or 2020.

FIFO Inventory

Our remaining inventory, including inventory in our Medical segment, that is not valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market is stated at the lower of cost, using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method, or net realizable value. We reserve for the lower of cost or net realizable value using the estimated selling prices and estimated sales demand in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. Due to the unprecedented demand for certain PPE as a result of COVID-19, our Medical segment manufactured and sourced inventory at higher costs than in periods prior to 

COVID-19. As selling prices and customer demand have decreased compared to the peak of COVID-19, we recorded a reserve of $197 million, primarily related to certain categories of gloves, to reduce the carrying value of certain PPE to its net realizable value. Our estimates for selling prices and demand are inherently uncertain and if our assumptions decline in the future, additional inventory reserves may be required. For example, a hypothetical 5 percent decline in the estimated selling prices would have decreased the estimated net realizable value of our inventory by approximately $30 million as of June 30, 2021. 

Excess and Obsolete Inventory

We reserve for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experience, historical and projected sales trends, specific categories of inventory, age and expiration dates of on-hand inventory and manufacturer return policies. Inventories presented in the consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $185 million and $155 million at June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. If actual conditions are less favorable than our assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill impairment testing involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of reporting units to the respective carrying amount, which may be performed utilizing either a qualitative or quantitative assessment. Qualitative factors are first assessed to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. There is an option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. We have elected to bypass the qualitative assessment for the annual goodwill impairment test in the current year. The quantitative goodwill impairment test involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the respective carrying amount. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (also known as a component). 

We have two operating segments, which are the same as our reportable segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical. These operating segments are comprised of divisions (which are components), for which discrete financial information is available. Components are aggregated into reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing to the extent that they share similar economic characteristics. Our reporting units are: Pharmaceutical operating segment (excluding our Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division); Nuclear and Precision Health Solutions division; Medical operating segment (excluding our Cardinal Health 

at-Home Solutions division) (“Medical Unit”); and Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions division. 

Goodwill impairment testing involves judgment, including the identification of reporting units, qualitative evaluation of events and circumstances to determine if it is more likely than not that an impairment exists and, if necessary, the estimation of the fair value of the applicable reporting unit. 

Our determination of estimated fair value of our reporting units is based on a combination of the income-based and market-based approaches (using discount rates ranging from 8.5 percent to 11.5 percent). We use discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective reporting units and in our internally-developed forecasts. Under the market-based guideline public company method, we determine fair value by comparing our reporting units to similar businesses or guideline companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets. We also use the market-based guideline transaction method to determine fair value based on pricing multiples derived from the sale of companies that are similar to our reporting units.

Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. The use of alternate estimates and assumptions, changes in the industry or peer groups, or changes in weightings assigned to the discounted cash flow method, guideline public company method or guideline transaction method could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit and potentially result in goodwill impairment. If a reporting unit fails to achieve expected earnings or 

 22Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

operating cash flow, or otherwise fails to meet current financial plans, or if there were changes to any other key assumptions used in the tests, the reporting unit could incur a goodwill impairment in a future period. 

We performed annual impairment testing in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 and concluded that there were no impairments of goodwill as the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. 

Medical Unit Goodwill

Due to the planned divestiture of our Cordis business, we allocated $388 million of goodwill from the Medical Unit to the Cordis disposal group based on the estimated relative fair values of the business to be disposed of and the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained. 

For our annual impairment test in fiscal 2021, the fair value of the Medical Unit (which includes the Cordis disposal group) exceeded its carrying value of $10.2 billion by approximately 3 percent. For this test, we used a discount rate of 8.5 percent and a terminal growth rate of 2 percent. Additionally, we assigned a weighting of 80 percent to the discounted cash flow method, 10 percent to the guideline public company method, and 10 percent to the guideline transaction method. The goodwill balance for the Medical Unit was $4.1 billion at June 30, 2021. 

Additional adverse changes in key assumptions, such as assumptions about the impact of the Cordis divestiture and the COVID-19 pandemic, including estimated demand and selling prices for PPE; an increase in the discount rate; a decrease in the terminal growth rate; or increases in tax rates, among other things, could result in a goodwill impairment for the Medical Unit. For example, if we were to increase the discount rate by a hypothetical 0.3 percent or decrease the terminal growth rate by a hypothetical 1 percent, the carrying value would have exceeded the fair value for the Medical Unit by approximately 1 percent for fiscal 2021. Additionally, the estimated tax rate used in goodwill impairment 

testing is a market-based assumption, which is impacted by the U.S. federal statutory tax rate. If the U.S. federal statutory tax rate were to increase to 28 percent and no other inputs were changed, the carrying value would have exceeded the fair value of the Medical Unit. For any of our other reporting units, the fair value would not have been less than the carrying amount for fiscal 2021 if we increased the discount rate by 1 percent or if the U.S. federal statutory tax rate were to increase to 28 percent.

We also performed goodwill impairment testing during the three months ended March 31, 2021 for the portion of the Medical Unit that would be retained. The carrying value of the Medical Unit that would be retained was $9.3 billion, of which $4.1 billion was goodwill. The fair value of the reporting unit was estimated to exceed its carrying value, using a combination of the income-based approach and the market-based approach, based on assumptions as of March 31, 2021. There have been no known significant changes in the relative fair values for the Medical Unit that would be retained or the Cordis disposal group.

The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (primarily trademarks) involves first assessing qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If so, then a quantitative test is performed to compare the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the respective asset's carrying amount. Our qualitative evaluation requires the use of estimates and significant judgments and considers the weight of evidence and significance of all identified events and circumstances and most relevant drivers of fair value, both positive and negative, in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount.

See Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangible assets.

Loss Contingencies and Self-Insurance

We regularly review contingencies and self-insurance accruals to determine whether our accruals and related disclosures are adequate. Any adjustments for changes in reserves are recorded in the period in which the change in estimate occurs.

Loss Contingencies

We accrue for contingencies related to disputes, litigation and regulatory matters if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Because these matters are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable developments or outcomes can occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events.

Examples of such contingencies include various lawsuits related to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications and the Cordis inferior vena cava ("Cordis IVC") filter lawsuits. 

In connection with the opioid litigation as described further in the Significant Developments in Fiscal 2021 and Trends section in this MD&A, we recorded pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion and $5.63 billion during fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. In July 2021, we announced that we and two other national distributors have negotiated a proposed settlement agreement, subject to certain conditions and contingencies. There is no assurance that the contingencies to the proposed settlement agreement will be satisfied. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K23

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

We develop and periodically update reserve estimates for the Cordis IVC claims, including those received to date and expected to be received in the future and related costs. To project future Cordis IVC claim costs, we use a methodology based largely on recent experience, including claim filing rates, estimated severity by claim type, sales data, implant and injury to report lag patterns and estimated defense costs. 

Self-Insurance

We self-insure through a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary for employee healthcare, certain product liability matters, auto liability, property and workers' compensation and maintain insurance for losses exceeding certain limits.

Self-insurance accruals include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, administrative fees, claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures, we develop the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim based on specific information related to each claim if available. Other estimates are based on an assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. For claims incurred but not reported, the liabilities are calculated and derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices or using an estimated lag period.

The amount of loss may differ materially from these estimates. See Note 7 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding loss contingencies and product liability lawsuits.

We regularly review contingencies and self-insurance accruals to determine whether our accruals and related disclosures are adequate. Any adjustments for changes in reserves are recorded in the period in which the change in estimate occurs.

Provision for Income Taxes

We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in the respective jurisdictions in which we operate. Our income tax expense, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, and unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the consolidated financial statements.

The following table presents information about our tax position at June 30:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Total deferred income tax assets included $805 million and $589 million of loss and tax credit carryforwards at June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

(2) The valuation allowance primarily relates to federal, state and international loss and credit carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain.

Expiring or unusable loss and credit carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted quarterly when it is more likely than not that at least a portion of the respective deferred tax assets will not be realized. After applying the valuation allowances, we do not anticipate any limitations on our use of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. We 

operate in a complex multinational tax environment and are subject to tax treaty arrangements and transfer pricing guidelines for intercompany transactions that are subject to interpretation. Uncertainty in a tax position may arise as tax laws are subject to interpretation. 

Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination of the technical merits of the position, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. For tax benefits that do not qualify for recognition, we recognize a liability for unrecognized tax benefits.

Tax Effects of Self-Insurance Pre-tax Loss

During fiscal 2021, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and applied to adjust our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 as permitted under the CARES Act enacted by the United States Congress in March 2020.

Accordingly, our provision for income taxes during fiscal 2021 included a $424 million benefit from the net operating loss carryback primarily to reflect the difference between the federal 

 24Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

MD&ACritical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates

statutory income tax rate during the fiscal years from 2015 to 2018 (35 percent for fiscal 2015, 2016, and 2017 and 28 percent for fiscal 2018) and the current federal statutory income tax rate of 21 percent.

We have filed for a U.S. federal income tax refund of $974 million as a result of the net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act, which we expect to receive within 12 months, and accordingly have recorded a current asset on our consolidated balance sheets at June 30, 2021. We also increased our non-current deferred tax liability by approximately $700 million during fiscal 2021 related to this matter.

Tax Effects of Opioid Litigation Charges

In connection with the $1.17 billion and $5.63 billion pre-tax charges for the opioid litigation, during fiscal year 2021 and 2020, respectively we recorded a tax benefit of $228 million and $488 million, respectively. Our tax benefits are estimates, which reflect our current assessment of the estimated future deductibility of the amount that may be paid under the accrual taken in connection with the opioid litigation and are net of unrecognized tax benefits of $219 million and $469 million, respectively. The fiscal 2021 net tax benefit and unrecognized tax benefits were primarily due to our assessment of the specific terms of the Proposed Settlement Agreement. We have made reasonable estimates and recorded amounts based on management's judgment and our current understanding of the Tax Act; however, these estimates require significant judgment since the U.S. tax law governing deductibility was changed by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). Further, it is possible that Congress or the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation of the Tax Act or the estimates and assumptions used to assess the future deductibility of these benefits. The actual amount of the tax benefit may differ materially from these estimates. See Note 8 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.”

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, we are subject to audit by taxing authorities for fiscal years 2015 through the current fiscal year. Tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. During fiscal 2021, we resolved all open issues with respect to the Company’s activity within fiscal years 2008 through 2014 with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). This resolution resulted in an adjustment to our provision for income taxes, including an impact to reserves for later years. New challenges related to future audits may adversely affect our effective tax rate or tax payments.

Our assumptions and estimates around uncertain tax positions require significant judgment; the actual amount of tax benefit related to uncertain tax positions may differ from these estimates. See Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding unrecognized tax benefits.

We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. The amount we ultimately pay when matters are resolved may differ from the amounts accrued. Changes in our current estimates due to 

unanticipated market conditions, tax law changes or other factors could have a material effect on our ability to utilize deferred tax assets. For a further discussion on Provision for Income Taxes, see Note 8 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.”

The calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code as per the Tax Act as enacted by the United States government on December 22, 2017. We have made reasonable estimates and recorded amounts based on management judgment and our current understanding of the Tax Act which is subject to further interpretation by the IRS. See Note 8 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K25

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This report, including the "Fiscal 2021 Overview" section within MD&A, contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. 

In addition to analyzing our business based on financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, we use these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate our performance, engage in financial and operational planning, and determine incentive compensation because we believe that these measures provide additional perspective on and, in some circumstances are more closely correlated to, the performance of our underlying, ongoing business. We provide these non-GAAP financial measures to investors as supplemental metrics to assist readers in assessing the effects of items and events on our financial and operating results on a year-over-year basis and in comparing our performance to that of our competitors. However, the non-GAAP financial measures that we use may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by us should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements set forth below should be carefully evaluated. 

Exclusions from Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Management believes it is useful to exclude the following items from the non-GAAP measures presented in this report for its own and for investors’ assessment of the business for the reasons identified below:

•LIFO charges and credits are excluded because the factors that drive last-in first-out ("LIFO") inventory charges or credits, such as pharmaceutical manufacturer price appreciation or deflation and year-end inventory levels (which can be meaningfully influenced by customer buying behavior immediately preceding our fiscal year-end), are largely out of our control and cannot be accurately predicted. The exclusion of LIFO charges and credits from non-GAAP metrics facilitates comparison of our current financial results to our historical financial results and to our peer group companies’ financial results. We did not recognize any LIFO charges or credits during the periods presented. 

•Surgical gown recall costs or income includes inventory write-offs and certain remediation and supply disruption costs, net of related insurance recoveries, arising from the January 2020 recall of select Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation ("AAMI") Level 3 surgical gowns and voluntary field actions (a recall of some packs and a corrective action allowing overlabeling of other packs) for Presource Procedure Packs containing affected gowns. Income from surgical gown recall costs represents insurance recoveries of these certain costs. We have excluded these costs from our non-GAAP metrics to allow investors to better understand the underlying operating results of the business and to facilitate comparison of our current financial results to our historical financial results and to our peer group companies’ financial results. 

•State opioid assessments related to prior fiscal years is the portion of state assessments for prescription opioid medications that were sold or distributed in periods prior to the period in which the expense is incurred. This portion is excluded from non-GAAP financial measures because it is retrospectively applied to sales in prior fiscal years and inclusion would obscure analysis of the current fiscal year results of our underlying, ongoing business. Additionally, while states' laws may require us to make payments on an ongoing basis, the portion of the assessment related to sales in prior periods are contemplated to be one-time, nonrecurring items. Income from state opioid assessments related to prior fiscal years represents reversals of accruals when the underlying assessments were invalidated by a Court or reimbursed by manufacturers. 

•Restructuring and employee severance costs are excluded because they are not part of the ongoing operations of our underlying business. 

•Amortization and other acquisition-related costs, which include transaction costs, integration costs, and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations, are excluded because they are not part of the ongoing operations of our underlying business and to facilitate comparison of our current financial results to our historical financial results and to our peer group companies' financial results. Additionally, costs for amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets are non-cash amounts, which are variable in amount and frequency and are significantly impacted by the timing and size of acquisitions, so their exclusion facilitates comparison of historical, current and forecasted financial results. We also exclude other acquisition-related costs, which are directly related to an acquisition but do not meet the criteria to be recognized on the acquired entity’s initial balance sheet as part of the purchase price allocation. These costs are also significantly impacted by the timing, complexity and size of acquisitions. 

 26Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

•Impairments and gain or loss on disposal of assets are excluded because they do not occur in or reflect the ordinary course of our ongoing business operations and are inherently unpredictable in timing and amount, and in the case of impairments, are non-cash amounts, so their exclusion facilitates comparison of historical, current and forecasted financial results. 

•Litigation recoveries or charges, net are excluded because they often relate to events that may have occurred in prior or multiple periods, do not occur in or reflect the ordinary course of our business and are inherently unpredictable in timing and amount. During fiscal 2021, we incurred a tax benefit related to a carryback of a net operating loss. Some pre-tax amounts, which contributed to this loss, relate to litigation charges. As a result, we allocated substantially all of the tax benefit to litigation charges. 

•Loss on early extinguishment of debt is excluded because it does not typically occur in the normal course of business and may obscure analysis of trends and financial performance. Additionally, the amount and frequency of this type of charge is not consistent and is significantly impacted by the timing and size of debt extinguishment transactions. 

•(Gain)/Loss on sale of equity interest in naviHealth was incurred in connection with the sale of our remaining equity interest in naviHealth in fiscal 2020. The equity interest was retained in connection with the initial sale of our majority interest in naviHealth during fiscal 2019. We exclude this significant gain because gains or losses on investments of this magnitude do not typically occur in the normal course of business and are similar in nature to a gain or loss from a divestiture of a majority interest, which we exclude from non-GAAP results. The gain on the initial sale of our majority interest in naviHealth in fiscal 2019 was also excluded from our non-GAAP measures. 

•Transitional tax benefit, net related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is excluded because it results from the one-time impact of a very significant change in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate and, due to the significant size of the benefit, obscures analysis of trends and financial performance. The transitional tax benefit includes the initial estimate and subsequent adjustments for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate and the repatriation tax on undistributed foreign earnings. 

The tax effect for each of the items listed above, other than the transitional tax benefit item, is determined using the tax rate and other tax attributes applicable to the item and the jurisdiction(s) in which the item is recorded. The gross, tax and net impact of each item are presented with our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations. 

Definitions

Growth rate calculation: growth rates in this report are determined by dividing the difference between current period results and prior period results by prior period results.

Non-GAAP operating earnings: operating earnings/(loss) excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) surgical gown recall costs/(income), (3) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (4) restructuring and employee severance, (5) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (6) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, and (7) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net. 

Non-GAAP earnings before income taxes: earnings/(loss) before income taxes excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) surgical gown recall costs/(income), (3) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (4) restructuring and employee severance, (5) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (6) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (7) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (8) loss on early extinguishment of debt and (9) (gain)/loss on sale of equity interest in naviHealth. 

Non-GAAP net earnings attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.: net earnings/(loss) attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. excluding (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) surgical gown recall costs/(income), (3) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (4) restructuring and employee severance, (5) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (6) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (7) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (8) loss on early extinguishment of debt and (9) (gain)/loss on sale of equity interest in naviHealth, each net of tax, and (10) transitional tax benefit, net. 

Non-GAAP effective tax rate: provision for/(benefit from) income taxes adjusted for (1) LIFO charges/(credits), (2) surgical gown recall costs/(income), (3) state opioid assessment related to prior fiscal years, (4) restructuring and employee severance, (5) amortization and other acquisition-related costs, (6) impairments and (gain)/loss on disposal of assets, (7) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (8) loss on early extinguishment of debt and (9) (gain)/loss on sale of equity interest in naviHealth, each net of tax, and (10) transitional tax benefit, net divided by (earnings before income taxes adjusted for the first nine items). 

Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.: non-GAAP net earnings attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. divided by diluted weighted-average shares outstanding. 

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K27

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1 Attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc.

2 For fiscal 2020, GAAP diluted loss per share attributable to Cardinal Health, Inc. and the EPS impact from the GAAP to non-GAAP per share reconciling items are calculated using a weighted average of 293 million common shares, which excludes potentially dilutive securities from the denominator due to their anti-dilutive effects resulting from our GAAP net loss for the period. Fiscal 2020, non-GAAP diluted EPS is calculated using a weighted average of 295 million common shares, which includes potentially dilutive shares. 

3 Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net includes pre-tax charges of $1.17 billion and $5.63 billion recorded in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to the opioid litigation. The net tax benefits associated with the opioid litigation charges are $228 million and $488 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, includes a tax benefit recorded during fiscal 2021 related to a net operating loss carryback. Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary recorded a self-insurance pre-tax loss in its fiscal 2020 statutory financial statements primarily related to opioid litigation. This self-insurance pre-tax loss, which did not impact our pre-tax consolidated results, was deducted on our fiscal 2020 consolidated federal income tax return and contributed to a significant net operating loss for tax purposes. The net operating loss was carried back and adjusted our taxable income for fiscal 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 as permitted under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (“CARES”) Act. The total benefit from the net operating loss carryback was $424 million; however, for purposes of Non-GAAP financial measures, we allocated $389 million of the benefit to litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, which is excluded from non-GAAP measures, based on the relative amount of the self-insurance pre-tax loss related to opioid litigation claims versus separate tax adjustments. The tax benefit allocated to the separate tax adjustments of $35 

 28Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K

Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

million is included in non-GAAP measures.

4 Reflects the net transitional benefit from the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities partially offset by the repatriation tax on cash and earnings of foreign subsidiaries. See Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for more information.

5 During fiscal 2019, we sold our majority interest in naviHealth and recognized a pre-tax gain of $508 million ($378 million after tax).

The sum of the components and certain computations may reflect rounding adjustments.

We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.

Cardinal Health | Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K29

Disclosures about Market Risk

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk