Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

Interest rate sensitivity

The tables below provide information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The first table below presents principal repayments and current weighted average interest rates on our debt obligations as of December 31, 2020. The variable rates presented reflect the weighted average LIBOR rates in effect for all debt tranches plus interest rate margins in effect as of December 31, 2020. The Term Loan A interest rate margin in effect at December 31, 2020, was 1.50%. At December 31, 2020, the Term Loan B-1 interest rate margin in effect was 1.75%. At December 31, 2020, we had an outstanding balance on our revolving line of credit bearing interest at an Alternate Base Rate (the Prime Rate) plus 0.50%. On January 6, 2021 our revolving line of credit rate was converted to a LIBOR-based rate of LIBOR plus 1.50%. The interest rates in effect on our Term Loan A and revolving line of credit are subject to adjustment depending upon changes in our leverage ratio.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents the fair value of our long-term debt excluding financing leases.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For a further discussion of our debt, see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements at Part II Item 15, "Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" – Note 13 – "Long-term debt" as referred from Part II Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

We believe that our cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, including from amounts available under our current credit facilities and our access to the capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our scheduled debt service under the terms of our debt agreements and other obligations for the foreseeable future, including the next 12 months. Our primary recurrent sources of liquidity are cash from operations and cash from borrowings.

One means of assessing exposure to debt-related interest rate changes is a duration-based analysis that measures the potential loss in net income resulting from a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across all variable rate maturities (referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve). Under this model, with all else constant, it is estimated that such an increase would have reduced net income by approximately $34.8 million, $32.4 million, and $37.8 million, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.

Exchange rate sensitivity

While our business is predominantly conducted in the U.S., we have developing operations in ten other countries as well. For financial reporting purposes, the U.S. dollar is our reporting currency. However, the functional currencies of our operating businesses in other countries are typically those of the countries in which they operate. Therefore, changes in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the local currencies in which our international operations are conducted affect our results of operations and financial position as reported in our consolidated financial statements.

We have consolidated the balance sheets of our non-U.S. dollar denominated operations into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates and have translated their revenues and expense at average exchange rates during each period. Additionally, our individual subsidiaries are exposed to transactional risks mainly resulting from intercompany transactions between and among subsidiaries with different functional currencies. This exposes the subsidiaries to fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the invoicing or obligation currencies and the currency in which their local operations are conducted.

78

We evaluate our exposure to foreign exchange risk through the judgment of our international and corporate management teams. Through 2020, our international operations have remained fairly small relative to the size of our consolidated financial statements, constituting approximately 9% of our consolidated assets as of December 31, 2020, with no single country constituting more than 3% of consolidated assets, and approximately 5% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. In addition, our foreign currency translation (losses) gains were approximately (0.4)%, (1)%, and (3)% of our consolidated operating income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.

Given the relatively small size of our international operations, management does not consider our exposure to foreign exchange risk to be significant to the consolidated enterprise. As such, through December 31, 2020, we have not engaged in transactions to hedge the exposure of our international transactions or net investments to foreign currency risk. 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.