Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks

Market Risk

We are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Such risks may be exacerbated by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. We periodically use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. We do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity.

Interest Rate Risk

In addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed-rate and variable-rate debt to finance our operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. 

Our fixed-rate senior notes (as included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements) represent the majority of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations as of December 31, 2020. The carrying value, excluding the fair value of the interest rate swaps described below and unamortized discounts, of our senior notes was $17.0 billion as of December 31, 2020. The fair value of our senior notes was approximately $18.6 billion as of December 31, 2020. The potential reduction in fair value of the senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. 

46

Table of Content

Our variable-rate risk principally relates to borrowings under our U.S. commercial paper program, Euro-commercial paper program, Revolving Credit Facility, Senior Euro Floating Rate Notes (as included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements) and interest rate swaps on our fixed-rate long-term debt. At December 31, 2020, our weighted average cost of debt was 1.7% with a weighted-average maturity of 5.4 years; 74% of our debt was fixed-rate and the remaining 26% of our debt was variable-rate. A 100 basis-point increase in the weighted average interest rate on our variable-rate debt would have increased our 2020 annual interest expense by $51 million. We performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based solely on the principal amount of our variable-rate debt as of December 31, 2020. This sensitivity analysis does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt. Further, this sensitivity analysis assumes the change in interest rates is applicable for an entire year. For comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of variable-rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2019, and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the weighted average interest rate would have increased our annual interest expense by approximately $45 million.

As of December 31, 2020, the following interest rate swaps converting the interest rate exposure on our Senior Euro Notes due July 2024 and our Senior USD Notes due May 2029 from fixed to variable are outstanding (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) 0.370% in effect as of December 31, 2020

(2) 3.161% in effect as of December 31, 2020

By entering into the aforementioned swap agreements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon LIBOR. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize. We designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges for accounting purposes as described in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. A 100 basis-point increase in the 3-month Euribor rate and 3-month LIBOR rate would increase our annual interest expense on these swaps by approximately $6 million and $10 million, respectively. 

Foreign Currency Risk

We are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. These risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. We manage the exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward contracts and non-derivative and derivative investment hedges. 

Our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-U.S. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we generated approximately $2,432 million, $1,852 million and $1,542 million, respectively, in revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. The major currencies to which our revenue is exposed are the British Pound Sterling, Euro, Brazilian Real and Indian Rupee. A 10% movement in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or decrease in our reported revenue for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

While our results of operations have been impacted by the effects of currency fluctuations, our international operations' revenue and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which reduces our economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions.

47

Table of Content

Our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes or to engage in speculative activity. We do periodically enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans and other balance sheet items. The Company also utilizes foreign currency-denominated debt and cross-currency interest rate swaps designated as net investment hedges in order to reduce the volatility of the net investment value of certain of its Euro and Pound Sterling functional subsidiaries (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). 

48

Table of Content

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data