Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. To reduce such risks, the Company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. All hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks. Further disclosure relating to the fair value of the Company's derivative financial instruments is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated financial statements.

Motorcycles and Related Products Segment

The Company sells its motorcycles and related products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country’s local currency. As a result, the Motorcycles segment operating results are affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. The Company’s most significant foreign currency exchange rate risk resulting from the sale of motorcycles and related products relates to the Euro, Australian dollar, Japanese yen, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese yuan, Indian rupee, Singapore dollar, Thai baht and Pound sterling. The Company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of certain currencies' fluctuations on Motorcycles segment operating results. The foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the Company to exchange currencies at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the notional U.S. dollar value of outstanding foreign currency contracts was $779.4 million and $654.5 million, respectively. The Company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $80.2 million and $65.5 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

The Company purchases commodities for use in the production of motorcycles. As a result, Motorcycles segment operating income is affected by changes in commodity prices. The Company uses derivative financial instruments on a limited basis to hedge the prices of certain commodities. At December 31, 2020, the notional value of these instruments was $7.5 million and the fair value was a net asset of $0.8 million. As of December 31, 2019, the notional value of these instruments was $8.9 million and the fair value was a net liability of $0.1 million. The potential decrease in fair value of these contracts from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would not be significant.

37

Financial Services Segment

The Company has interest rate sensitive financial instruments including finance receivables, debt and interest rate derivative financial instruments. As a result, Financial Services operating income is affected by changes in interest rates. The Company utilizes interest rate swaps and caps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its floating-rate medium-term notes and its asset-backed securitization transactions, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, HDFS had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $450.0 million and interest rate caps outstanding with a notional value of $978.1 million. As of December 31, 2019, HDFS had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $900.0 million and interest rate caps with a notional value of $376.0 million. As of December 31, 2020, HDFS estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would not result in a material change to the fair value of the interest rate swap and cap agreements. As of December 31, 2019, HDFS estimated that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of the interest rate swap and cap agreements of $10.2 million. 

HDFS has also has short-term commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities that is subject to changes in interest rates which it does not hedge. The Company estimates that a one-percentage point increase in the interest rate on commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities would increase Financial Services interest expense in 2021 by approximately $15.5 million. This analysis does not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Further, in the event of a change in interest rates, the Company may take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis does not account for these impacts.

The Company has foreign denominated medium-term notes. As a result, Financial Services operating income is affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies and interest rates. At December 31, 2020, this exposure related to the Euro. The Company utilizes cross-currency swaps to mitigate the effect of the foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations related to foreign denominated debt. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company has cross-currency swaps outstanding with a notional value of $1.4 billion and $660.8 million, respectively. The Company estimates that a 10% adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate would result in a $170.6 million and $76.2 million decrease in the fair value of the swap agreements as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The amount as of December 31, 2019 reflects a revision to the amount included in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

38

Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data