Item 1. Business

General

Harley-Davidson Motor Company was founded in 1903. Harley-Davidson, Inc. was incorporated in 1981, at which time it purchased the Harley-Davidson® motorcycle business from AMF Incorporated in a management buyout. In 1986, Harley-Davidson, Inc. became publicly held. Harley-Davidson, Inc. is the parent company of the group of companies referred to as Harley-Davidson Motor Company (HDMC) and Harley-Davidson Financial Services (HDFS). Unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the “Company” include Harley-Davidson, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. The Company operates in two segments: Motorcycles and Related Products (Motorcycles) and Financial Services. The Company's reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services and are managed separately based on the fundamental differences in their operations.

Strategy(1) 

During 2020, the Company executed a set of actions, referred to as The Rewire. The Rewire was a critical overhaul of the Company's business to set the Company on a new course and provide a solid foundation to execute its new 2021-2025 strategic plan, The Hardwire. The Rewire is discussed further under Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

The Hardwire is the Company's 2021-2025 strategic plan guided by its mission and vision, which the Company introduced on February 2, 2021. The plan targets long-term profitable growth through focused efforts that extend and strengthen the brand and drive value for its shareholders. The Company's ambition is to enhance its position as the most desirable motorcycle brand in the world. Desirability is a motivating force driven by emotion. Harley-Davidson has long been associated with igniting desirability, and it is embedded in its vision; it is at the heart of its mission and it is part of its 118-year legacy. To drive desirability, the Company will: 

•Design, engineer and advance the most desirable motorcycles in the world - reflected in quality, innovation, and craftsmanship

•Build a lifestyle brand valued for the emotion reflected in every product and experience for riders and non-riders alike

•Focus on customers, delivering adventure and freedom for the soul 

The Hardwire strategic priorities are as follows:

Profit focus: Investing in its strongest motorcycle segments – Harley-Davidson plans to invest significant time and resources on strengthening and growing its leadership positions in its strongest, most profitable motorcycle segments: Touring, large Cruiser and Trike. 

3

Selective expansion and redefinition: To win in attractive motorcycle segments and markets – The Company plans to selectively expand into and within motorcycle segments, focusing on product segments that are profitable and aligned with the Company's product and brand capabilities, such as Adventure Touring and middleweight Cruiser. 

The Company plans to focus on approximately 50 global markets that matter most to its future growth. This includes the following priority markets: United States, DACH (Germany, Austria, and Switzerland), Japan, China, Canada, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Australia, and New Zealand. The Company will also continue to test further avenues for desirable long-term growth such as premium low displacement motorcycles. 

Lead in Electric: Investing in leading the electric motorcycle market – Electric motorcycles are important to Harley-Davidson’s future and it is committed to and passionate about leading the electric motorcycle market. The focus will be on technology development, with an approach to product and go-to-market actions that reflect the expectations of the targeted customer to deliver the most desirable electric motorcycles in the world.

Growth beyond bikes: Expanding complementary businesses and engaging beyond product – Harley-Davidson creates products, services and experiences that inspire its customers to discover adventure, find freedom for the soul and live the Harley-Davidson lifestyle. The Company's Parts & Accessories, General Merchandise and Financial Services businesses are all important pillars of the Company's future success as a global lifestyle brand. Through The Hardwire, the Company plans to grow the profitability of these businesses through refreshed product and program offerings, stronger execution and additional digital and in-dealership purchase opportunities. 

Customer experience: Growing our connection with riders and non-riders – The Hardwire puts customers at the forefront of the Company's products, experiences and investments – from the rider who may dream of motorcycling or just learned to ride, all the way to riders who are deeply passionate about and invested in the Harley-Davidson lifestyle. The Company recognizes the different needs and expectations of its customers and is creating touchpoints tailored to individual needs. Powered by integrated data, the goal is to seamlessly engage with customers, creating a meaningful, unique and personalized experience with Harley-Davidson each and every time. 

Inclusive Stakeholder Capitalism: Prioritizing people, planet and profit – The Company strives to deliver long-term value to all stakeholders – people (employees, independent dealers, customers, suppliers, investors, and society), planet, and profit. Inclusive Stakeholder Management is the unifying theme for how the Company will help drive additional shareholder value for its investors.

The Hardwire financial targets are as follows:

•Mid single-digit revenue growth from 2021 through 2025 in the Motorcycles segment, with solid growth expectations for Motorcycles, Parts & Accessories and General Merchandise. 

•Steady improvement in Motorcycles segment operating margin compared to 2019 (most recent comparable year) through 2025 driven by increased efficiencies across operations and leverage within selling, general and engineering expenses, as the Company maintains a lean cost structure. This includes anticipated continued investments in the business and brand.

•Double-digit growth in Financial Services segment operating income from 2021 through 2025 behind growth in the Motorcycles segment and optimization of the Company’s digital platform.

•Low double-digit diluted earnings per share growth from 2021 through 2025.

•Capital investments between $190 million to $250 million annually.

Cash allocation priorities are first to fund growth through The Hardwire initiatives, then to reward shareholders through dividends.

The Hardwire replaces the Company's previous long-term strategy and objectives and the previously disclosed More Roads to Harley-Davidson plan.

4

Motorcycles and Related Products Segment

The Motorcycles segment consists of HDMC which designs, manufactures and sells Harley-Davidson motorcycles as well as motorcycle parts, accessories, general merchandise and services. The Motorcycles segment conducts business on a global basis, with sales in the United States (U.S.), Canada, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA), Asia Pacific, and Latin America. The Company's products are sold to retail customers primarily through a network of independent dealers. Independent dealerships generally stock and sell the Company's motorcycles, Parts & Accessories (P&A), General Merchandise, licensed products, and perform services on Harley-Davidson motorcycles. 

Independent Harley-Davidson dealers are located worldwide. Independent dealership points by geographic location as of December 31, 2020 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company also distributes its motorcycles through a third-party distributor in India. The distributor sells the Company's products through independent Harley-Davidson dealers, included in the table above, and their own existing dealer network.

P&A and General Merchandise are also retailed through eCommerce channels in certain markets. In the U.S., the Company operates an eCommerce site that offers products sold through participating authorized U.S. independent Harley-Davidson dealers. In select international markets, the Company utilizes third-party eCommerce websites.

Motorcycles segment revenue by product line as a percent of total revenue for the last three fiscal years was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Motorcycles – Harley-Davidson offers both internal combustion and electric powered motorcycles. The Company's internal combustion engines generally have displacements that are greater than 600 cubic centimeters (cc), up to a maximum displacement of approximately 1900cc and electric motors with kilowatt (kW) peak power equivalents greater than 600cc. 

The motorcycle industry is comprised of the following segments:

•Cruiser – emphasizes styling, customization and casual riding

•Touring – emphasizes rider comfort and load capacity and incorporates features such as fairings and luggage compartments ideal for long rides, including the Company's three-wheeled Trike models

•Standard – a basic motorcycle typically featuring upright seating for one or two passengers

•Sportbike – incorporates racing technology and performance and aerodynamic styling and riding position

•Dual – designed with the capability for use on-road as well as for some off-road recreational use, including Adventure Touring

The Company's lineup of motorcycles offered through 2020 competes primarily in the cruiser and touring segments. Beginning in 2021, the Company is expanding into Adventure Touring with its new Pan America™ motorcycle. 

Competition in the motorcycle industry is based upon a number of factors including product capabilities and features, styling, price, quality, reliability, warranty, availability of financing, and quality of the dealer networks that sell the products. The Company believes its motorcycles continue to generally command a premium price at retail relative to competitors’ motorcycles. Harley-Davidson motorcycles feature unique styling, customization, innovative design, distinctive sound, superior quality, reliability and include a warranty. The Company also considers the availability of its line of motorcycle Parts & Accessories and General Merchandise, the availability of financing through HDFS and its global network of independent dealers to be competitive advantages.

Motorcycle Industry – Industry data includes on-road motorcycles with internal combustion engines with displacements greater than 600cc and electric motorcycles with kW peak power equivalents greater than 600cc (601+cc). In 2020, approximately 78% of the total annual independent dealer retail sales of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles were sold in the 

5

U.S. and European 601+cc markets. Other significant markets for the Company, based on the Company's 2020 retail sales data, include Japan, Australia and New Zealand, China and Canada. 

U.S. retail registration data(a)(b) for 601+cc motorcycles was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Data includes on-road models with internal combustion engines with displacements greater than 600cc's and electric motorcycles with kilowatt (kW) peak power equivalents greater than 600cc's (601+cc). On-road 601+cc models include dual purpose models, three-wheeled motorcycles and autocycles. Registration data for Harley-Davidson Street® 500 motorcycles is not included in this table.

(b)U.S. industry data is derived from information provided by the Motorcycle Industry Council. This third-party data is subject to revision and update. The retail registration data for Harley-Davidson motorcycles presented in this table will differ from the Harley-Davidson retail sales data presented in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations (Item 7). The Company’s source for retail sales data in Item 7 is sales and warranty registrations provided by independent Harley-Davidson dealers as compiled by the Company. The retail sales data in Item 7 includes sales of Harley-Davidson Street® 500 motorcycles which are excluded from this table. In addition, small differences may arise related to the timing of data submissions to the independent sources.

European retail registration data(a)(b) for 601+cc motorcycles was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Data includes on-road models with internal combustion engines with displacements greater than 600cc's and electric motorcycles with kilowatt (kW) peak power equivalents greater than 600cc's (601+cc). On-road 601+cc models include dual purpose models, three-wheeled motorcycles and autocycles. Registration data for Harley-Davidson Street® 500 motorcycles is not included in this table.

(b)Europe data includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Industry data is derived from information provided by Management Services Helwig Schmitt GmbH. Prior year registrations have been revised to exclude Greece and Portugal registrations. This third-party data is subject to revision and update. The retail registration data for Harley-Davidson motorcycles presented in this table will differ from the Harley-Davidson retail sales data presented in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations (Item 7). The Company’s source for retail sales data in Item 7 is sales and warranty registrations provided by Harley-Davidson dealers as compiled by the Company. The retail sales data in Item 7 includes sales of Harley-Davidson Street® 500 motorcycles which are excluded from this table. In addition, some differences may arise related to the timing of data submissions to the independent sources.

Parts & Accessories and General Merchandise – The Company offers a line of Harley-Davidson P&A and General Merchandise. P&A products are comprised of Genuine Motor Parts and Genuine Motor Accessories. Genuine Motor Parts include replacement parts and Genuine Motor Accessories includes mechanical and cosmetic accessories. General Merchandise includes riding gear and apparel, including Genuine MotorClothes®.

Licensing – The Company creates reach and awareness of the Harley-Davidson brand among its customers and the non-riding public by licensing the name “Harley-Davidson” and other trademarks owned by the Company for use on a range of products. 

Patents and Trademarks – The Company strategically manages its portfolio of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property.

The Company owns, and continues to obtain, patent rights that relate to its motorcycles and related products and processes for their production. Certain technology-related intellectual property is also protected, where appropriate, by license agreements, confidentiality agreements or other agreements with suppliers, employees and other third parties. The Company diligently protects its intellectual property, including patents and trade secrets, and its rights to innovative and proprietary technologies and designs. This protection, including enforcement, is important as the Company moves forward with investments in new products, designs and technologies. While the Company believes patents are important to its business operations and in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, the success of the business is not dependent on any one patent or group of patents. The Company’s active patent portfolio has an average remaining age of approximately six years. A patent review committee manages the patent strategy and portfolio of the Company.

6

Trademarks are important to the Company’s motorcycle and related products businesses and licensing activities. The Company has a vigorous worldwide program of trademark registration and enforcement to maintain and strengthen the value of the trademarks and prevent the unauthorized use of those trademarks. The HARLEY-DAVIDSON trademark and the Bar and Shield trademark are each highly recognizable to the public and are very valuable assets. Additionally, the Company uses numerous other trademarks, trade names and logos which are registered worldwide. The following are among the Company’s trademarks: HARLEY-DAVIDSON, H-D, HARLEY, the Bar & Shield Logo, MOTORCLOTHES, the MotorClothes Logo, the #1 Logo, the Willie G Skull Logo, HARLEY OWNERS GROUP, H.O.G., the H.O.G. Logo, LIVEWIRE, SOFTAIL and SPORTSTER. The HARLEY-DAVIDSON trademark has been used since 1903 and the Bar and Shield trademark since at least 1910. Substantially all of the Company’s trademarks are owned by H-D U.S.A., LLC, a subsidiary of the Company, which also manages the Company’s global trademark strategy and portfolio.

Marketing – The Company’s brand, products and the riding experience are marketed to consumers worldwide. Marketing occurs primarily through digital and experiential activities as well as through more traditional promotional and advertising activities. Additionally, the Company’s independent dealers engage in a wide range of local marketing and events.

Experiences that build community and connect consumers with the Harley-Davidson brand and with one another have traditionally been at the center of much of the Company’s marketing efforts. To develop, engage and retain committed riders, the Company participates in and sponsors motorcycle rallies, racing activities, music festivals and other special events. This includes events sponsored by the Harley Owners Group (H.O.G.®) to build community and connect Harley-Davidson motorcycle riders around the world. These activities help inspire interest in riding, foster motorcycle culture and build a passionate community of Harley-Davidson riders. The COVID-19 pandemic has limited the Company's ability to participate in and sponsor certain events. The Company expects to resume these activities as the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. 

Seasonality – The seasonality of the Company’s wholesale motorcycle shipments generally correlates with the timing of retail sales made by independent dealers. Retail sales generally track closely with regional riding seasons. In addition, during 2020, wholesale shipments and retail sales were impacted by the Company's decision to reset, beginning in 2020, the timing of its annual new model year introduction from the third quarter to the first quarter. As a result of this change, initial shipments of new model year 2021 motorcycles did not occur until the first quarter of 2021. 

Motorcycle Manufacturing – The majority of the Company's manufacturing processes are performed at facilities located in the U.S. The Company's U.S. manufacturing facilities supply the U.S. market as well as certain international markets. Additionally, the Company operates facilities in Thailand and Brazil. The Company's Thailand facility manufactures motorcycles for certain Asian and European markets. In Brazil, the Company operates a facility that assembles motorcycles from component kits sourced from the Company’s U.S. facilities and suppliers. The Company's global manufacturing operations are focused on driving world-class quality and performance. A global manufacturing footprint enables the Company to be close to customers, provide quality products at a competitive price and grow its overall business. 

Raw Materials and Purchased Components – The Company continues to establish and reinforce long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers. Through these collaborative relationships, the Company gains access to technical and commercial resources for application directly to product design, development and manufacturing initiatives. In addition, through a continued focus on collaboration and strong supplier relationships, the Company believes it will be positioned to achieve its strategic objectives and deliver cost and quality improvements over the long-term.(1)

The Company's principal raw materials include steel and aluminum castings, forgings, steel sheet and bar. The Company also purchases certain motorcycle components including, but not limited to, electronic fuel injection systems, batteries, tires, seats, electrical components, instruments and wheels. The Company closely monitors the overall viability of its supply base. The Company does not anticipate material difficulties in obtaining raw materials or components.(1) The Company is proactively working with its suppliers to limit the risk of interruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Regulation – International, federal, state and local authorities have various environmental control requirements relating to air, water and noise that affect the business and operations of the Company. The Company strives to ensure that its facilities and products comply with all applicable environmental regulations and standards.

The Company’s motorcycles and certain other products that are sold in the U.S. are subject to certification by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the California Air Resources Board (CARB) for compliance with applicable emissions and noise standards. Certain Harley-Davidson products are designed to comply with EPA and CARB standards and the Company believes it will comply with future requirements when they go into effect.(1) Additionally, certain of the Company’s products must comply with the motorcycle emissions, noise and safety standards of Canada, the European Union, Japan, Brazil and certain other foreign markets where they are sold, and the Company believes its products currently comply with those standards. As the Company expects environmental standards to become more stringent over time, the Company will continue to incur research, development and production costs in this area for the foreseeable future.(1)

7

The Company, as a manufacturer of motorcycle products, is subject to the U.S. National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, which is administered by the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). The Company has certified to NHTSA that certain of its motorcycle products comply fully with all applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards and related regulations. The Company has from time to time initiated certain voluntary recalls. During the three years ending in 2020, the Company accrued $54.6 million associated with 10 voluntary recalls.

Employees – As of December 31, 2020, the Motorcycles segment had approximately 4,600 employees, including approximately 1,800 hourly unionized employees at its U.S. manufacturing facilities, represented with collective bargaining agreements as follows:

•York, Pennsylvania – International Association of Machinist and Aerospace Workers (IAM), agreement will expire on October 15, 2022 

•Milwaukee, Wisconsin – United Steelworkers of America (USW) and IAM, agreements will expire on March 31, 2024

•Tomahawk, Wisconsin – USW, agreement will expire on March 31, 2024

Financial Services Segment

The Financial Services segment consists of HDFS which is engaged in the business of financing and servicing wholesale inventory receivables and retail consumer loans, primarily for the purchase of Harley-Davidson motorcycles. HDFS also works with certain unaffiliated insurance companies to provide motorcycle insurance and protection products to motorcycle owners. HDFS conducts business principally in the U.S. and Canada. The Company’s independent dealers and their retail customers in EMEA, Asia Pacific and Latin America generally have access to financing through third-party financial institutions, some of which have licensing agreements with HDFS.

Wholesale Financial Services – HDFS provides wholesale financial services to U.S. and Canadian independent Harley-Davidson dealers, including floorplan and open account financing of motorcycles and P&A. All U.S. and Canadian independent dealers utilized HDFS' financing programs at some point during 2020.

Retail Financial Services – HDFS provides retail financing to consumers, consisting primarily of installment lending for the purchase of new and used Harley-Davidson motorcycles. HDFS’ retail financial services are available through most independent Harley-Davidson dealerships in the U.S. and Canada.

Insurance Services – HDFS works with certain unaffiliated insurance companies which offer point-of-sale protection products through most independent Harley-Davidson dealers in the U.S. and Canada, including motorcycle insurance, extended service contracts and motorcycle maintenance protection. HDFS also direct-markets motorcycle insurance and extended service contracts to owners of Harley-Davidson motorcycles. In addition, HDFS markets a comprehensive package of business insurance coverages and services to owners of independent Harley-Davidson dealerships.

Licensing – HDFS has licensing arrangements with third-party financial institutions that issue credit cards bearing the Harley-Davidson brand in the U.S. and certain international markets. Internationally, HDFS licenses the Harley-Davidson brand to local third-party financial institutions that offer products to the Company’s retail customers such as financing and insurance. 

Funding – The Company believes a diversified and cost-effective funding strategy is important to meet HDFS’ goal of providing credit while delivering appropriate returns and profitability. Financial Services operations in 2020 were funded with unsecured debt, unsecured commercial paper, asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities, committed unsecured bank facilities asset-backed securitizations and deposits. 

Competition – The Company regards its ability to offer a package of wholesale and retail financial services in the U.S. and Canada as a significant competitive advantage. Competitors in the financial services industry compete for business based largely on price and, to a lesser extent, service. HDFS competes on convenience, service, brand association, dealer relations, industry experience, terms, and price.

In the U.S. and Canada, HDFS financed 67.6% and 42.2% of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles retailed by independent dealers during 2020, respectively, compared to 65.9% and 45.0%, respectively, during 2019. Competitors for retail motorcycle finance business are primarily banks, credit unions and other financial institutions. In the motorcycle insurance business, competition primarily comes from national insurance companies and from insurance agencies serving local or regional markets. For insurance-related products such as extended service contracts, HDFS faces competition from certain regional and national industry participants as well as dealer in-house programs. Competition for the wholesale motorcycle finance business primarily consists of banks and other financial institutions providing wholesale financing to independent Harley-Davidson dealers in their local markets.

8

Trademarks – HDFS uses various trademarks and trade names for its financial services and products, which are licensed from H-D U.S.A., LLC, including HARLEY-DAVIDSON, H-D and the Bar & Shield logo.

Seasonality – HDFS experiences seasonal variations in retail financing activities based on the timing of regional riding seasons in the U.S. and Canada. In general, from mid-March through August, retail financing volume is greatest. HDFS wholesale financing volume is affected by inventory levels at independent Harley-Davidson dealers. Independent dealers generally have higher inventory in the first half of the year. As a result, outstanding wholesale finance receivables are generally higher during the same period. 

Regulation – HDFS operations are generally subject to supervision and regulation by federal and state administrative agencies and various foreign governmental authorities. Many of the requirements imposed by such entities are in place to provide consumer protection as it pertains to the selling and servicing of financial products and services. Therefore, HDFS operations may be subject to limitations imposed by regulations, laws and judicial and/or administrative decisions. In the U.S., for example, applicable laws include the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Fair Credit Reporting Act.

Depending on the specific facts and circumstances involved, non-compliance with these laws may limit the ability of HDFS to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, entitling the borrower to rescind the loan or to obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, or could subject HDFS to the payment of damages or penalties and administrative sanctions, including “cease and desist” orders, and could limit the number of loans eligible for HDFS' securitization programs.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act granted the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the Bureau) significant supervisory, enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. Certain actions and regulations of the Bureau will directly impact HDFS and its operations. For example, the Bureau has supervisory authority over non-bank larger participants in the vehicle financing market, which includes a non-bank subsidiary of HDFS.

Such regulatory requirements and associated supervision also could limit the discretion of HDFS in operating its business. Noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines, criminal penalties and administrative sanctions.

Eaglemark Savings Bank (ESB), a subsidiary of HDFS, is a Nevada state thrift chartered as an Industrial Loan Company. The activities of ESB are governed by federal laws and regulations and State of Nevada banking laws. ESB is subject to examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Nevada state bank examiners. ESB originates retail loans, retains certain of those loans and sells the remaining loans to a non-banking subsidiary of HDFS. This process allows HDFS to offer retail products with many common characteristics across the U.S. and to similarly service loans to U.S. retail customers.

Employees – As of December 31, 2020, the Financial Services segment had approximately 550 employees.

Human Capital Management

Under The Rewire, the Company undertook a thorough review of its operating model, resulting in a complete organizational restructuring that resulted in the elimination of approximately 700 positions globally, including the termination of approximately 500 employees. The result is, as of December 31, 2020, a global workforce of approximately 5,200 employees. As part of The Rewire, the Company's Inclusive Stakeholder Management (ISM) team was formed, bringing together personnel focused on key elements of inclusion, sustainability, social impact and future of work. One of the Company's first commitments under ISM was to extend employee ownership to all employees by offering an equity grant to approximately 4,500 employees not otherwise eligible for equity grants, including hourly production workers, in February 2021. 

The Company believes that the success of The Hardwire will be realized through the engagement and empowerment of its employees. The Company believes all stakeholders are more successful when they are included. Key areas of focus for the Company include:

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) – The Company understands that the strength of its brand worldwide requires a diverse and inclusive workforce. The Company is committed to building a more equitable workplace and is revamping talent acquisition, development and recognition practices accordingly. Harley-Davidson's DEI strategy focuses on three core principles: Invite Everyone In, Illuminate the Issues, and Infuse Talent. To create a culture of inclusion and a workplace that supports diversity of background, thought, and perspectives, Business Employee Resource Groups (BERGs) provide opportunities for employees to exchange ideas, influence and deliver programming, grow and develop professionally and 

9

personally, as well as support business initiatives. Currently, the following BERGs have been established and participation is open to all employees: African American, Asian Professionals, Latin American Professionals, LGBTQ+, Military, Women, and Young Professionals. Based on employee provided identity information, 71.4% of the Company’s workforce is male, 82.0% is White and 85.3% is U.S. based. 

Health and Safety – The Company believes that providing and expecting a healthy and safe work environment is vital to our success. It has created a world-class safety program that reduces safety risk by instilling a company-wide safety culture, instituting proactive engineering standards, implementing work-hardening programs, and providing on-site ergonomic resources and medical clinics. This cornerstone of the Company's workplace environment became even more front and center with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Harley-Davidson quickly pivoted the majority of its salaried workforce to predominately remote work in March 2020. The Company's manufacturing facilities largely shut down mid-March through May 2020 resulting in layoffs for hourly workers, in accordance with the Company's collective bargaining agreements. As production resumed, the Company implemented strict protocols following best practice guidance from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and World Health Organization (WHO), all while exceeding the Company's world class health and safety metrics (2020 OSHA Recordable Rate: 0.3, down 0.3 from 2019). 

Talent and Culture – The Company launched H-D #1 leadership principles to its global workforce in 2020 to serve as a guide in its cultural journey to become a high-performing organization. The Company is committed to making Harley-Davidson synonymous with highly desirable, inspiring, and engaged workplaces. The Company is evolving its workspaces and work ways, as well as its talent, employee development and retention practices to advance its five-year strategic plan, The Hardwire. 

Internet Access

The Company’s website address is http://www.harley-davidson.com. The Company’s website address for investor relations is http://investor.harley-davidson.com/. 

The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, are available on its investor relations website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

In addition, the Company makes available, through its investor relations website, the following corporate governance materials: (i) the Company’s Corporate Governance Policy; (ii) Committee Charters approved by the Company’s Board of Directors for the Audit and Finance Committee, Human Resources Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Brand and Sustainability Committee; (iii) the Company’s Financial Code of Ethics; (iv) the Company’s Code of Business Conduct (the Code of Conduct); (v) the Conflict of Interest Process for Directors, Executive Officers and Other Employees (the Conflict Process); (vi) a list of the Company’s Board of Directors; (vii) the Company’s Bylaws; (viii) the Company’s Environmental and Energy Policy; (ix) the Company’s Policy for Managing Disclosure of Material Information; (x) the Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct; (xi) the Sustainability Strategy Report; (xii) the California Transparency in Supply Chain Act Disclosure; (xiii) the Statement on Conflict Minerals; (xiv) the Political Engagement and Contributions 2017-2020; and (xv) the Company's Clawback Policy. The Company's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement for its 2021 annual meeting of shareholders, which will include information related to the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, will be made available through its investor relations website. 

The Company satisfies the disclosure requirements under the Code of Conduct, the Conflict Process and applicable New York Stock Exchange listing requirements regarding waivers of the Code of Conduct or the Conflict Process by disclosing the information in the Company’s proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareholders or on its investor relations website. The Company is not including the information contained on or available through any of its websites as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

10

Item 1A. Risk Factors