PART

 I 

ITEM 1.

 Business 

General 

Henry Schein, Inc. is a solutions company for health care professionals powered

 by a network of people and 

technology. We

 believe we are the world’s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office-

based dental and medical practitioners, as well as alternate sites of care.

 Our philosophy is grounded in our 

commitment to help customers operate a more efficient and successful business so

 the practitioner can provide 

better clinical care. 

With more than 88 years of experience distributing health care products, we have built a vast set of small,

 mid-sized 

and large customers in the dental and medical markets, serving more than one

 million customers worldwide across 

dental practices and laboratories and physician practices, as well as government,

 institutional health care clinics and 

other alternate care clinics.

We are headquartered in Melville, New York,

 employ more than 19,000 people (of which approximately 9,800 are 

based outside the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 31 countries and

 territories, including the 

United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China,

 the Czech Republic, France, Germany, 

Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New 

Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,

 Thailand, United Arab Emirates 

and the United Kingdom.

 This broad global footprint has evolved over time through our organic success as well

 as 

through contribution from strategic acquisitions. 

Our business extends far beyond our supply chain capabilities across

 the globe. We provide a wide breadth 

of products, value-added solutions and support to customers, including

 consumables and equipment. Through 

Henry Schein One, we offer dental practice management, patient engagement

 and demand creation software 

solutions. We also offer a broad range of financial services for our customers to help them operate and expand their 

business operations. We believe our hands-on consultative approach to support practice decision-making is a key 

differentiator for our business. 

We offer

 a comprehensive selection of more than 120,000 branded products

 and Henry Schein private brand 

products in stock, as well as more than 180,000 additional products

 available as special-order items. 

As the market continues to evolve toward solutions that offer ease and convenience for

 ordering products and 

communicating with our solutions teams, we are investing in digital enhancements

 to our e-commerce platforms 

and our web capabilities. 

We have established over 3.5 million square feet of space in 28 strategically located distribution centers around the 

world to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating

 efficiency.

 Our infrastructure allows us 

to provide rapid and accurate order fulfillment. Historically, approximately 99% of items have been shipped 

without back ordering and were shipped on the same business day the order

 is received.

 Due to the significant 

increase in demand for personal protective equipment (“PPE”), as a result

 of the COVID-19 pandemic, during the 

year ended December 26, 2020, approximately 93% of items ordered

 were shipped without back ordering and 90% 

were shipped on the same business day the order was received.

 As the demand for PPE stabilizes, we expect our 

percentage of items shipped without back ordering and shipped on the

 same day to return to historic levels.

 This 

infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive

 prices, and a strong commitment to 

customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’

 needs. 

We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and 

value-added services.

 These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base.

The health care distribution reportable segment aggregates our global

 dental and medical operating segments.

 This 

combined dental and medical segment distributes consumable products,

 small equipment, laboratory products, large 

equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals,

 vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic   
4 

tests, infection-control products

 and vitamins.

 Our global dental group serves office-based dental practitioners, 

dental laboratories, schools, government and other institutions.

 Our global medical group serves physician offices, 

urgent care centers, ambulatory care sites, emergency medical technicians, dialysis centers, home health,

 federal 

and state governments and large enterprises, such as group practices and integrated

 delivery networks, among other 

providers across a wide range of specialties.

 While our primary go-to-market strategy is in our capacity as a 

distributor, we also manufacture certain dental specialty products in the areas of implants, orthodontics

 and 

endodontics. We have achieved scale in these global businesses primarily through acquisitions as manufacturers of 

these products typically do not utilize a distribution channel to serve customers.

As an alternative to branded product options, we also market under our own

 private label portfolio of cost-effective, 

high-quality consumable merchandise products for our dental and medical customers.

 Sales of our private label 

products generally achieve gross profit margins that are higher than the average margin on the other

 products we 

sell.

Our global technology and value-added services group provides software,

 technology and other value-added 

services to health care practitioners.

 Henry Schein One, the largest contributor of sales to this category, offers 

software systems for dental practitioners. This segment also includes a

 small medical software business known as 

MicroMD. In addition, we offer physicians a broad suite of electronic health records,

 integrated revenue cycle 

management, and patient communication services. Finally, our value-added practice solutions include financial 

service offerings, which include practice finance solutions such as credit card billing

 and facilitation of customer 

loans (on a non-recourse basis) to acquire equipment and technology, as well as solutions to broker dental practice 

transitions. We do not take on the liability of such loans but instead receive an origination fee for coordinating 

loans between practice customers and third-party banking groups. 

Recent Developments 

See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent 

Developments” herein for a discussion related to the COVID-19

 pandemic and recent corporate transactions. 

Industry 

The global health care distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and 

diverse.

 The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of

 relatively small offices to mid-sized and large 

group practices ranging in size from a few practitioners to several hundred

 practices owned or operated by dental 

support organizations (DSOs), hospital systems, or integrated delivery networks

 (IDNs). 

Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage

 large quantities of supplies 

in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health

 care practitioners 

has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for

 rapid, reliable and substantially complete 

order fulfillment.

 The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically

 made by the 

practitioner, hygienist or office manager.

 Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from

 more than 

one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier. 

The health care distribution industry continues to experience growth due

 to demand driven by the aging population, 

increased health care awareness and the importance of preventative care,

 an increasing understanding of the 

connection between good oral health and overall health, improved access

 to care globally, the proliferation of 

medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and

 expanded third-party insurance coverage, 

partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage and technological improvements,

 including 

the advancement of software and services, prosthetic solutions and telemedicine.

 In addition, the non-acute market 

continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic

 testing from acute care settings to alternate-care 

sites, particularly physicians’ offices and ambulatory surgery centers. 

We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly 

those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking

 to combine with larger companies that can 

provide growth opportunities.

 This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking

 to acquire   
5 

companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide

 opportunities to serve a broader 

customer base.

In addition, customer consolidation will likely lead to multiple locations

 under common management and the 

movement of more procedures from the hospital setting to the physician

 or alternate care setting as the health care 

industry is increasingly focused on efficiency and cost containment.

 This trend has benefited distributors capable 

of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices.

 It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, 

group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying

 groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on 

obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable

 of providing specialized management 

information support.

 We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect 

demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance

 the efficiency and facilitation of practice 

management. 

Competition

The distribution and manufacture of health care supplies and equipment is

 highly competitive.

 Many of the health 

care products we sell are available to our customers from a number of suppliers.

 In addition, our competitors could 

obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market particular products.

 Manufacturers also could seek to sell 

directly to end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other

 distributors. In certain parts of the 

dental end market, such as those related to dental specialty products,

 manufacturers already sell directly to end 

customers. 

In North America, we compete with other distributors, as well as several

 manufacturers, of dental and medical 

products, primarily on the basis of price, breadth of product line, e-commerce

 capabilities, customer service and 

value-added products and services.

 In the dental market, our primary competitors in the U.S. are the Patterson 

Dental division of Patterson Companies, Inc. and Benco Dental Supply

 Company.

 In addition, we compete against 

a number of other distributors that operate on a national, regional and

 local level. Our primary competitors in the 

U.S. medical market, which accounts for the large majority of our global medical

 sales, are McKesson Corporation 

and Medline Industries, Inc., which are national distributors.

 We also compete with a number of regional and local 

medical distributors, as well as a number of manufacturers that

 sell directly to physicians.

 With regard to our dental 

software, we compete against numerous companies, including the Patterson

 Dental division of Patterson 

Companies, Inc., Carestream Health, Inc., Open Dental Software, Inc., PlanetDDS

 LLC, Good Methods Global Inc. 

(d.b.a. CareStack) and Curve Dental, LLC.

 In other software end markets, including revenue cycle

 management, 

patient relationship management and patient demand generation, we

 compete with companies such as Vyne 

Therapeutics Inc., EDI-Health Group, Inc. (d.b.a. Dental X Change, Inc.),

 Weave Communications, 

Inc., Solutionreach, Inc., ZocDoc, Inc., LocalMed Inc. and Prosites Inc.

 The medical practice management and 

electronic medical records market is very fragmented and we compete with

 numerous companies such as the 

NextGen division of Quality Systems, Inc., eClinicalWorks, Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., and Epic Systems 

Corporation.

Outside of the U.S., we believe we are the only global distributor of supplies

 and equipment to dental practices, and 

our competitors are primarily local and regional companies.

 We also face significant competition internationally, 

where we compete on the basis of price and customer service against

 several large competitors, including the 

GACD Group, Proclinic SA, Lifco AB, Planmeca Oy and Billericay Dental

 Supply Co. Ltd., as well as a large 

number of other dental and medical product distributors and manufacturers

 in international countries and territories 

we serve. 

Competitive Strengths 

We have more than 88 years of experience in distributing products to health care practitioners resulting in strong 

awareness of the Henry Schein

®

 brand.

 Our competitive strengths include: 

A focus on meeting our customers’ unique needs

.

 We are committed to providing customized solutions to our 

customers that are driven by our understanding of the end markets we

 serve and reflect the technology-driven 

products and services best suited for their practice needs. We are committed to continuing to enhance these   
6 

offerings through organic investment in our products and our teams, as well through as

 the acquisition of new 

products and services that may help us better serve our customers. 

Direct sales and marketing expertise.

 Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and solidify 

customer relationships through personal or virtual visits by field sales representatives,

 frequent direct marketing and 

telesales contact, emphasizing our broad product lines, including exclusive

 distribution agreements, competitive 

prices and ease of order placement, particularly through our e-commerce

 platforms.

 The key elements of our direct 

sales and marketing efforts are: 

•

Field sales consultants.

 We have over 3,450 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 

covering major North American, European and other international

 markets.

 These consultants complement 

our direct marketing and telesales efforts and enable us to better market, service

 and support the sale of 

more sophisticated products and equipment. 

•

Marketing.

 During 2020, we marketed to existing and prospective office-based health care

 providers 

through a combination of owned, earned and paid digital channels, as well

 as through catalogs, flyers, 

direct mail, and other promotional materials.

 Our strategies included an emphasis on educational content 

through webinars and content marketing initiatives.

 We continue to enhance our marketing technology to 

improve our targeting capability and the relevance of messaging and offers. 

•

Telesales.

 We support our direct marketing effort with approximately 2,250 inbound and outbound 

telesales representatives, who facilitate order processing, generate new

 sales through direct and frequent 

contact with customers and stay abreast of market developments and

 the hundreds of new products, 

services and technologies introduced each year to educate practice personnel. 

•

Electronic commerce solutions.

 We provide our customers and sales teams with innovative and 

competitive e-commerce solutions. We continue to invest in our e-commerce platform to offer enhanced 

content management so customers can more easily find the products

 they need and to enable an engaging 

purchase experience, supported by excellent customer service.

•

Social media.

 Our operating entities and employees engage our customers and

 supplier partners through 

various social media platforms, which are an important element of our

 communications and marketing 

efforts. We continue to expand our social media presence to raise awareness about issues, engage 

customers beyond a sale and deliver services and solutions to specialized

 audiences. 

Broad product and service offerings at competitive prices.

 We offer

 a broad range of products and services to our 

customers, at competitive prices, in the following categories: 

•

Consumable supplies and equipment.

 We offer over 120,000 Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, to our 

customers.

 We offer over 180,000 additional SKUs to our customers in the form of special order items. 

•

Technology and other value-added products and services.

 We sell practice management, patient 

engagement, and patient demand creation software solutions to our

 dental customers.

 Our practice 

management solutions provide practitioners with electronic

 medical records, patient treatment history, 

billing, accounts receivable analyses and management, appointment

 calendars, electronic claims processing 

and word processing programs, network and hardware services, e-commerce

 and electronic marketing 

services, sourcing third party patient payment plans, transition services

 and training and education 

programs for practitioners. We also sell medical software for practice management, certified electronic 

health records (“EHR”) and e-Prescribe medications and prescription solutions

 through MicroMD®.

 We 

have approximately 800 technical representatives supporting customers

 using our practice management 

solutions and services.

 As of December 26, 2020, we had an active user base of approximately

 94,500 

practices and 374,000 consumers, including users of AxiUm, Dentally®, Dentrix

 Ascend®, Dental 

Vision®, Dentrix® Dental Systems, Dentrix® Enterprise, Easy Dental®, EndoVision®, Evolution® and 

EXACT®, Gesden®, Julie® Software, Oasis, OMSVision®,

 Orisline®, PerioVision®,

 Power Practice® 

Px, PowerDent,

 and Viive®

 and subscriptions for Demandforce®, Sesame, and Lighthouse360®

 for dental 

practices and DentalPlans.com®

 for dental patients; and MicroMD® for physician practices.   
7 

•

Repair services.

 We have over 140 equipment sales and service centers worldwide that provide a variety of 

repair, installation and technical services for our health care customers.

 Our over 2,000 technicians provide 

installation and repair services for: dental handpieces; dental and

 medical small equipment; table top 

sterilizers; and large dental equipment. 

•

Financial services.

 We offer our customers solutions in operating their practices more efficiently by 

providing access to a number of financial services and products

 provided by third party vendors (including 

non-recourse financing for equipment, technology and software

 products; non-recourse patient financing; 

collection services and credit card processing) at rates that we believe are generally

 lower than what our 

customers would be able to secure independently.

 We also provide consulting services, dental practice 

valuation and brokerage services. 

Commitment to superior customer service

.

 We maintain a strong commitment to providing superior customer 

service.

 We frequently monitor our customer service through customer surveys, focus groups and statistical 

reports.

 Our customer service policy primarily focuses on: 

•

Exceptional order fulfillment

.

 We ship an average of approximately 128,000 cartons daily.

 Historically, 

approximately 99% of items have been shipped without back ordering and

 were shipped on the same 

business day the order is received.

 Due to the significant increase in demand for PPE, as a result

 of 

COVID-19, during the year ended December 26, 2020, approximately

 93% of items ordered were shipped 

without back ordering and 90% were shipped on the same business day

 the order was received.

 As the 

demand for PPE stabilizes, we expect our percentage of items shipped without

 back ordering and shipped 

on the same day to return to historical levels. 

•

Comprehensive ordering process

.

 Customers may place orders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week via e-

commerce solutions, telephone, fax, e-mail, and mail. 

Integrated management information systems

.

 Our information systems generally allow for centralized management 

of key functions, including accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll, purchasing, sales,

 order 

fulfillment and financial and operational reporting.

 These systems allow us to manage our growth, deliver superior 

customer service, properly target customers, manage financial performance and

 monitor daily operational statistics. 

Cost-effective purchasing

.

 We believe that cost-effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancing 

our position as a competitively priced provider of health care products.

 We continuously evaluate our purchase 

requirements and suppliers’ offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the

 lowest possible cost.

 In 2020, 

our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately

 30% and 

4%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases. 

Efficient distribution

.

 We distribute our products from our strategically located distribution centers.

 We strive to 

maintain optimal inventory levels in order to satisfy customer demand

 for prompt delivery and complete order 

fulfillment.

 These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with

 the aid of our management information 

systems.

 Once an order is entered, it is electronically transmitted to the distribution

 center nearest the customer’s 

location for order fulfillment.   
8 

Products 

The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net sales

 by principal categories of products offered 

through our health care distribution and technology reportable segments: 

December 26, 

December 28, 

December 29, 

2020 

2019 

2018 

Health care distribution: 

Dental products 

(1)

58.4 

% 

64.2 

% 

67.4 

% 

Medical products 

(2)

35.8 

29.8 

28.3 

Total

 health care distribution

94.2 

94.0 

95.7 

Technology

 and value-added services: 

Software and related products and 

 other value-added products 

(3)

5.1 

5.2 

4.3 

Total

 excluding Corporate TSA revenues 

99.3 

99.2 

100.0 

Corporate TSA revenues 

(4)

0.7 

0.8 

- 

Total 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

(1)

Includes infection-control products, handpieces, preventatives, impression materials, composites, anesthetics, teeth, dental implants, 

gypsum, acrylics, articulators, abrasives, dental chairs, delivery units and lights, X-ray supplies and equipment, personal protective 

equipment, equipment repair and high-tech and digital restoration equipment. 

(2)

Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, X-ray products, 

equipment, personal protective equipment, and vitamins. 

(3)

Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, and 

financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services. 

(4)

Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into in 

connection with the Animal Health spin-off, which ended in December 2020. 

Business Strategy 

Our objective is to continue to expand as a global value-added provider

 of health care products and services to 

office-based dental and medical practitioners by increasing their efficiency and success.

 To accomplish this, we 

will apply our competitive strengths in executing the following strategies: 

•

Increase penetration of our existing customer base.

 We have over 1 million customers worldwide and we 

intend to increase sales to our existing customer base and enhance our position

 as their primary supplier. 

We believe our offering of a broad range of products, services and support, including software solutions 

that can help drive improved workflow efficiency and patient communications for

 practices, coupled with 

our full-service value proposition, helps us to retain and grow our customer

 base. 

•

Increase the number of customers we serve.

 This strategy includes increasing the productivity of our field 

sales consultants and telesales team, as well as using our customer

 database to focus our marketing efforts 

in all of our operating segments.

 In the dental business, we provide products and services to

 independent 

practices, mid-market groups, and large DSOs as well as community health centers and government

 sites of 

care.

 Leveraging our broad array of assets and capabilities, we offer solutions to address these

 new 

markets.

 In the medical business, we have expanded to serve customers

 located in settings outside of the 

traditional office, such as urgent care clinics, retail, occupational health and home health settings.

 As 

settings of health care shift, we remain committed to serving these practitioners

 and providing them with 

the products and services they need. 

•

Leverage our value-added products and services.

 We continue to increase cross-selling efforts for key 

product lines utilizing a consultative selling process.

 In the dental business, we have significant cross-

selling opportunities between our dental software users and our dental distribution

 customers.

 In the 

medical business, we have opportunities to expand our vaccine, injectables

 and other pharmaceuticals sales 

to health care practitioners, as well as cross-selling electronic health record

 and software when we sell our 

core products.

 Our strategy extends to providing health systems, integrated

 delivery networks and other 

large group and multi-site health care organizations, including physician clinics, these same value

 added   
9 

products and services.

 As physicians and health systems closely align, we have increased

 access to 

opportunities for cross-marketing and selling our product and service portfolios. 

•

Pursue strategic acquisitions and joint ventures.

 Our acquisition strategy is focused on investments in 

companies that add new customers and sales teams, increase our geographic

 footprint (whether entering a 

new country, such as emerging markets, or building scale where we have already invested in businesses), 

and finally, those that enable us to access new products and technologies. 

Markets Served

Demographic trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an

 aging U.S. population is increasingly using health 

care services.

 Between 2020 and 2030, the 45 and older population is expected

 to grow by approximately 11%.

Between 2020 and 2040,

 this age group is expected to grow by approximately 22%.

 This compares with expected 

total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 7%

 between 2020 and 2030 and approximately 12% between 

2020 and 2040.

In the dental industry, there is predicted to be a rise in oral health care expenditures as the 45-and-older segment of 

the population increases.

 There is increasing demand for new technologies that allow

 dentists to increase 

productivity, and this is being driven in the U.S. by lower insurance reimbursement rates.

 At the same time, there is 

an expected increase in dental insurance coverage. 

We support our dental professionals through the many SKUs that we offer, as well as through important value-

added services, including practice management software, electronic claims

 processing, financial services and 

continuing education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner’s efficiency.

In the medical market, there continues to be a migration of procedures from

 acute-care settings to physicians’ 

offices and home health settings,

 a trend that we believe provides additional opportunities for us.

 There also is the 

continuing use of vaccines, injectables and other pharmaceuticals in alternate-care

 settings.

 We believe we have 

established a leading position as a vaccine supplier to the office-based physician

 practitioner. 

Additionally, we seek to expand our dental full-service model and our medical offerings in countries where 

opportunities exist.

 Through our “Schein Direct” program, we also have the

 capability to provide door-to-door air 

package delivery to practitioners in over 190 countries around the world.

For information on revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, see 

Note 18 – Segment and Geographic Data

of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

Seasonality and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results 

We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings.

 As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of 

securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price

 to decline. 

Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations.

 Revenues and profitability generally have been 

higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal

 products (including influenza vaccine, 

equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners

 and year-end 

promotions. Revenues and profitability may also be impacted by

 the timing of certain annual and biennial dental 

tradeshows where equipment promotions are offered. In addition, some dental practices

 delay equipment purchases 

in the U.S. until year-end due to tax incentives.

 Revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first 

quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters.

 We expect our historical seasonality of sales to 

continue in the foreseeable future.
10 

Governmental Regulations 

We strive to be substantially compliant with the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described below, and 

believe we have effective compliance programs and other controls in place to ensure substantial

 compliance. 

However, compliance is not guaranteed

 either now or in the future, as certain laws, regulations and guidance

 may 

be subject to varying and evolving interpretations that could affect our ability to comply, as well as future changes, 

additions, and enforcement approaches, including in light of political changes.

 For example, President Biden’s 

administration has authorized and encouraged a freeze on certain federal

 regulations that have been published but 

are not yet effective, as well as a review of all federal regulations issued during President Trump’s administration.

Changes with respect to the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described

 below may require us to update or 

revise our operations, services, marketing practices, and compliance programs

 and controls, and may impose 

additional and unforeseen costs on us, pose new or previously immaterial

 risks to us, or may otherwise have a 

material adverse effect on our business. 

Government 

Certain of our businesses involve the distribution, importation, exportation,

 marketing and sale of, and third party 

payment for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard, we are subject to extensive local, state, 

federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including as applicable

 to our wholesale distribution of 

pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and as part of our specialty home medical supply

 business that distributes and 

sells medical equipment and supplies directly to patients.

 The federal government and state governments have also 

increased enforcement activity in the health care sector, particularly in areas of fraud and abuse, anti-bribery

 and 

corruption, controlled substances prescribing, medical device regulation, and data

 privacy and security standards.

Government and private insurance programs fund a large portion of the total cost of medical care,

 and there have 

been efforts to limit such private and government insurance programs, including efforts,

 thus far unsuccessful, to 

seek repeal of the entire United States Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,

 as amended by the Health Care 

and Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010, as amended

 (the “ACA”).

 In addition, activities to 

control medical costs, including laws and regulations lowering reimbursement

 rates for pharmaceuticals, medical 

devices, and/or medical treatments or services, are ongoing.

 Many of these laws and regulations are subject to 

change and their evolving implementation may impact our operations and our

 financial performance. 

Our businesses are also generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations

 that could impact our financial 

performance, including securities, antitrust, consumer protection, anti-bribery

 and anti-kickback, customer 

interaction transparency, data privacy,

 data security, government contracting and other laws and regulations.

Failure to comply with law or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Operating, Security and Licensure Standards

Certain of our businesses involve the distribution, importation, exportation,

 marketing

 and sale of, and third party 

payment for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local,

 state, federal 

and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including as applicable

 to our wholesale distribution and sale of 

pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and, as part of our specialty home medical

 supply business that distributes 

and sells medical equipment and supplies directly to patients.

 Among the United States federal laws applicable to 

us are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic

 Act, as amended (“FDC Act”), and 

Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, as well as laws regulating the

 billing of and reimbursement from 

government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and from commercial payers.

 We are also subject to 

comparable foreign regulations. 

The FDC Act, the Controlled Substances Act, their implementing regulations,

 and similar foreign laws generally 

regulate the introduction, manufacture, advertising, marketing and promotion,

 sampling, pricing and 

reimbursement, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, returning or recalling,

 reporting, and distribution of, and 

record keeping for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices shipped in interstate commerce, and states

 may similarly 

regulate such activities within the state.

 Furthermore, Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, which

 provides 

authority to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable

 diseases, serves as the legal basis for   
11 

the United States

 Food and Drug Administration’s (“FDA”) regulation of human cells, tissues and cellular and 

tissue-based products, also known as “HCT/P products.” 

The Federal Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 brought about significant

 changes with respect to 

pharmaceutical supply chain requirements.

 Title II of this measure, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act 

(“DSCSA”), is being phased in over a period of ten years, and is intended

 to build a national electronic, 

interoperable system to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they

 are distributed in the United States.

The law’s track and trace requirements applicable to manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers (e.g., 

pharmacies) of prescription drugs took effect in January 2015, and continues to be

 implemented.

 The DSCSA 

product tracing requirements replace the former FDA drug pedigree requirements

 and pre-empt certain state 

requirements that are inconsistent with, more stringent than, or in addition

 to, the DSCSA requirements. 

The DSCSA also establishes certain requirements for the licensing and operation

 of prescription drug wholesalers 

and third-party logistics providers (“3PLs”), and includes the eventual

 creation of national wholesaler and 3PL 

licenses in cases where states do not

 license such entities.

 The DSCSA requires that wholesalers and 3PLs 

distribute drugs in accordance with certain standards regarding the recordkeeping,

 storage and handling of 

prescription drugs.

 The DSCSA requires wholesalers and 3PLs to submit annual reports

 to the FDA, which include 

information regarding each state where the wholesaler or 3PL is licensed, the

 name and address of each facility and 

contact information.

 According to FDA guidance, states are pre-empted from imposing

 any licensing requirements 

that are inconsistent with, less stringent than, directly related to, or covered

 by the standards established by federal 

law in this area.

 Current state licensing requirements concerning wholesalers will

 remain in effect until the FDA 

issues new regulations as directed by the DSCSA.

 In addition, with respect to our specialty home medical supply 

business, we are subject to certain state licensure laws (including state pharmacy

 laws), and also certain 

accreditation standards, including to qualify for reimbursement from

 Medicare and other third-party payers. 

The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 and

 the Food and Drug Administration Safety and 

Innovation Act of 2012 amended the FDC Act to require the FDA to promulgate

 regulations to implement a unique 

device identification (“UDI”) system.

 The UDI rule phased in the implementation of the UDI

 regulations, 

generally beginning with the highest-risk devices (i.e., Class III medical devices)

 and ending with the lowest-risk 

devices.

 Most compliance dates were reached as of September 24, 2018,

 with a final set of requirements for low 

risk devices being reached on September 24, 2022, which will complete

 the phase in.

 The UDI regulations require 

“labelers” to include unique device identifiers (“UDIs”), with a content

 and format prescribed by the FDA and 

issued under a system operated by an FDA-accredited issuing agency, on the labels and packages of medical 

devices (including, but not limited to, certain software that qualifies as a medical device

 under FDA rules), and to 

directly mark certain devices with UDIs.

 The UDI regulations also require labelers to submit certain information 

concerning UDI-labeled devices to the FDA, much of which information is publicly

 available on an FDA database, 

the Global Unique Device Identification Database.

 The UDI regulations and subsequent FDA guidance regarding 

the UDI requirements provide for certain exceptions, alternatives and time extensions.

 For example, the UDI 

regulations include a general exception for Class I devices exempt from the Quality

 System Regulation (other than 

record-keeping requirements and complaint files).

 Regulated labelers include entities such as device 

manufacturers, repackagers, reprocessors and relabelers that cause a device’s label to be applied or modified, with 

the intent that the device will be commercially distributed without any subsequent

 replacement or modification of 

the label, and include certain of our businesses. 

Under the Controlled Substances Act, as a distributor of controlled substances,

 we are required to obtain and renew 

annually registrations for our facilities from the United States Drug Enforcement

 Administration (“DEA”) 

permitting us to handle controlled substances.

 We are also subject to other statutory and regulatory requirements 

relating to the storage, sale, marketing, handling, reporting, record-keeping

 and distribution of such drugs, in 

accordance with the Controlled Substances Act and its implementing regulations,

 and these requirements have been 

subject to heightened enforcement activity in recent times.

 We are subject to inspection by the DEA. Certain of our 

businesses are also required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and

 comply with operating and security 

standards of, the DEA, the FDA, the United States Department of Health

 and Human Services (“HHS”), and 

various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as comparable 

foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies, depending on the type of

 operations and location of product 

distribution, manufacturing or sale.

 These businesses include those that distribute, manufacture and/or repackage   
12 

prescription pharmaceuticals and/or medical devices and/or HCT/P products, or

 own pharmacy operations, or 

install, maintain or repair equipment.

In addition, Section 301 of the National Organ Transplant Act, and a number of comparable state laws, impose civil 

and/or criminal penalties for the transfer of certain human tissue (for example,

 human bone products) for valuable 

consideration, while generally permitting payments for the reasonable costs

 incurred in procuring, processing, 

storing and distributing that tissue.

 We are also subject to foreign government regulation of such products.

 The 

DEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad inspection and enforcement

 powers, including the ability 

to suspend or limit the distribution of products by our distribution centers,

 seize or order the recall of products and 

impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of

 these laws and regulations.

 Foreign 

regulations subject us to similar foreign enforcement powers. 

EU Regulation of Medicinal and Dental Products

EU member states regulate their own healthcare systems, as does EU law.

 The latter regulates certain matters, 

most notably medicinal products and medical devices. Medicinal products are defined,

 broadly, as substances or 

combinations of substances having certain functionalities and may not include

 medical devices. EU “regulations” 

apply in all Member States, whereas “directives” are implemented by the

 individual laws of member states.

On medicines for humans, we are regulated under Directive No. 2001/83/EC

 of 6 November 2001 and EU 

Regulation No. 726/2004 of 31 March 2004.

 These rules provide for the authorization of products, and regulate 

their manufacture, importation, marketing, and distribution.

 It implements requirements which may be 

implemented without warning, as well as a national pharmacovigilance

 system under which marketing 

authorizations may be withdrawn, and includes potential sanctions for breaches

 of the rules, and on other bases 

such as harmfulness or inefficiency.

EU Regulation No. 1223/2009 of 30 November 2009 

on cosmetic products

 requires that cosmetic products (which 

includes dental products) be safe for human health when used under normal

 or reasonably foreseeable conditions of 

use and comply with certain obligations which apply to manufacturer, importer and distributor. It includes market 

surveillance, and non-compliance may result in the recall or withdrawal of

 products, along with other sanctions.

In the European Union, the EU Medical Device Regulation No. 2017/745

 (“EU MDR”) covers a wide scope of our 

activities, from dental material to X-ray machines, and certain software.

 It was meant to become applicable three 

years after publication (in May 2020). However, on April 23, 2020, to allow European Economic Area

 (“EEA”) 

national authorities, notified bodies, manufacturers and other actors to focus

 fully on urgent priorities related to the 

COVID-19 pandemic, the European Council and Parliament adopted Regulation

 2020/561, postponing the date of 

application of the EU MDR by one year (to May 2021).

 In the meantime, rules provided for by Directive No. 

90/385/EEC of 20 June 1990 

on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to active implantable 

medical devices

 remain applicable (in particular to certain software).

The EU MDR significantly modifies and intensifies the regulatory compliance

 requirements for the medical device 

industry as a whole.

 Once applicable, the EU MDR will among other things: 

•

Strengthen

the

rules

on

placing

devices

on

the

market

and

rein

force

surveillance

once

they

are

available;

•

Establish

explicit

provisions

on

manufacturers’

responsibilities

for

the

follow

-

up

of

the

quality,

performance and safety of devices placed on the market; 

•

Improve

the

traceability

of

medical

devices

throughout

the

supply

chain

to

the

end

-

user

or

patient

through

a

unique identification number; 

•

Se

t

up

a

central

database

to

provide

patients,

healthcare

professionals

and

the

public

with

comprehensive

information on products available in the EU;

•

Strengthen

rules

for

the

assessment

of

certain

high

-

risk

devices,

such

as

implants,

which

may

have

to

undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market; and 

•

Identify importers and distributors and medical device products through

 registration in a database 

(EudaMed not due until 2022 and after).
13 

In particular, the EU MDR imposes stricter requirements for the confirmation that a product meets the regulatory 

requirements, including regarding a product’s clinical evaluation and a company’s quality systems, and for the 

distribution, marketing and sale of medical devices, including post-market surveillance.

 Medical devices that have 

been assessed and/or certified under the EU Medical Device Directive may

 continue to be placed on the market 

until 2024 (or until the expiry of their certificates, if applicable and earlier);

 however, requirements regarding the 

distribution, marketing and sale including quality systems and post-market surveillance

 have to be observed by 

manufacturers, importers and distributors as of the application date. 

Other EU regulations that may apply under appropriate circumstances

 include EU Regulation No. 1907/2006 of 18 

December 2006 

concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and

 Restriction of Chemicals

, which 

requires importers to register substances or mixtures that they import

 in the EU beyond certain quantities, and the 

EU Regulation No. 1272/2008 of 16 December 2008 on classification, labelling

 and packaging of substances and 

mixtures (“CLP Regulation”), which sets various obligations with respect

 to the labelling and packaging of 

concerned substances and mixtures. 

Furthermore, compliance with legal requirements has required and may in the future

 require us to delay product 

release, sale or distribution, or institute voluntary recalls of products we sell,

 each of which could result in 

regulatory and enforcement actions, financial losses and potential reputational

 harm.

 Our customers are also 

subject to significant federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulation, which

 may affect our interactions 

with customers, including the design and functionality of our products. 

Certain of our businesses are subject to various additional federal, state,

 local and foreign laws and regulations, 

including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling and

 disposal of hazardous or potentially 

hazardous substances, and safe working conditions.

 In addition, certain of our businesses must operate in 

compliance with a variety of burdensome and complex billing and

 record-keeping requirements in order to 

substantiate claims for payment under federal, state and commercial healthcare

 reimbursement programs. 

Certain of our businesses also maintain contracts with governmental agencies

 and are subject to certain regulatory 

requirements specific to government contractors. 

Antitrust and Consumer Protection 

The federal government of the United States, most U.S. states and many

 foreign countries have antitrust laws that 

prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive, as well as consumer

 protection laws that seek to 

protect consumers from improper business practices.

 At the U.S. federal level, the Federal Trade Commission 

oversees enforcement of these types of laws, and states have similar government

 agencies. Violations of antitrust or 

consumer protection laws may result in various sanctions, including criminal

 and civil penalties.

 Private plaintiffs 

may also bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged

 antitrust law violations, including claims for 

treble damages.

 EU law also regulates competition and provides for detailed rules

 protecting consumers. 

Health Care Fraud 

Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar

 foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral 

and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations.

 Some of these laws, referred to as “false 

claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent

 claims for reimbursement to 

federal, state and other health care payers and programs.

 Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit 

soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral

 of a patient or ordering, 

purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services

 that are 

paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs.

 Certain additional state and federal laws, such 

as the federal Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” prohibit physicians and other 

health professionals from referring a patient to an entity with which the physician

 (or family member) has a 

financial relationship, for the furnishing of certain designated health services

 (for example, durable medical 

equipment and medical supplies), unless an exception applies. 

The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to heightened

 enforcement activity over the past few 

years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who

 serve as whistleblowers by filing   
14 

complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states)

 under applicable false claims laws, 

and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries.

 Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be 

severe, and could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs,

 including the loss of licenses and the 

ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could

 have a material adverse effect on our 

business.

 Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,

 regulatory or judicial authority in 

a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial

 defense and settlement 

expenses.

 Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private

 relators could result in reputational 

harm and the incurring of substantial costs.

 Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these

 state 

laws have their own penalties, which may be in addition to federal False Claims

 Act penalties, as well as other 

fraud and abuse laws.

With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns

 about 

financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians

 and dentists on the other.

 As a result, we 

regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate

 compliance. 

We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign 

operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery

 Act, German anti-corruption laws 

and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal

 books and records, which have been 

the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. 

While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and

 abuse laws and regulations, and 

have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial

 compliance, we cannot predict 

whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in 

response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, or failure

 to comply with applicable law, could have 

a material adverse effect on our business. 

Affordable Care Act 

The United States Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the

 Health Care and Education 

Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010, as amended (the “ACA”),

 increased federal oversight of private 

health insurance plans and included a number of provisions designed

 to reduce Medicare expenditures and the cost 

of health care generally, to reduce fraud and abuse, and to provide access to increased health coverage.

 The ACA 

also materially expanded the number of individuals in the United States with health

 insurance.

The ACA has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking

 to invalidate and Congressional action 

seeking to repeal some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been

 implemented. In 2012, the United 

States Supreme Court, in upholding the constitutionality of the

 ACA and its individual mandate provision requiring 

that people buy health insurance or else face a penalty, simultaneously limited ACA provisions requiring Medicaid 

expansion, making such expansion a state-by-state decision. In addition, one of

 the major political parties in the 

United States remains committed to seeking the ACA’s legislative repeal, but legislative efforts to do so have 

previously failed to pass both chambers of Congress.

 Under President Trump’s administration, a number of 

administrative actions were taken to materially weaken the ACA, including,

 without limitation, by permitting the 

use of less robust plans with lower coverage and eliminating “premium support”

 for insurers providing policies 

under the ACA. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in 2017 (the “Tax Act”), which contains a broad range of tax 

reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international

 tax provisions, income tax add-

back provisions and deductions, also effectively repealed the ACA’s

 individual mandate by zeroing out the penalty 

for non-compliance.

 In the most recent ACA litigation, the federal Fifth Circuit Court

 of Appeals found the 

individual mandate to be unconstitutional, and returned the case to the District Court

 for the Northern District of 

Texas for consideration of whether the remainder of the ACA could survive the excision of the individual 

mandate.

 The Fifth Circuit’s decision was appealed to the United States Supreme Court.

 The Supreme Court heard 

argument on the appeal on November 10, 2020, and a decision is anticipated soon.

 Any outcome of this case that 

changes the ACA, in addition to future legislation, regulation, guidance

 and/or Executive Orders that do the same, 

could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare industry. 

An ACA provision, generally referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine

 Act or Open Payments Program (the 

“Sunshine Act”),

 imposes annual reporting and disclosure requirements for drug

 and device manufacturers and   
15 

distributors with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain

 covered recipients (including 

physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and distributors

 and for group purchasing 

organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting

 entity.

 The Centers for 

Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) publishes information from these

 reports on a publicly available website, 

including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital

 identities.

 Amendments expanded the 

law to also require reporting, effective January

 1, 2022, of payments or other transfers of value to physician 

assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered

 nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse-

midwives, and this new requirement will be effective for data collected

 beginning in calendar year 2021.

 The 

Sunshine Act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries

 may be required to report 

under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by

 the Sunshine Act, and some of 

these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous.

 We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring 

transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers.

In the United States, government actions to seek to increase health-related price

 transparency may also affect our 

business.

Another notable Medicare health care reform initiative, the Medicare Access

 and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 

2015 (“MACRA”), enacted on April 16, 2015, established a new payment framework,

 which modified certain 

Medicare payments to “eligible clinicians,” including physicians, dentists and

 other practitioners.

 Under MACRA, 

certain eligible clinicians are required to participate in Medicare through the Merit-Based

 Incentive Payment 

System (“MIPS”) or Advanced Alternative Payment Models (“APMs”), through

 which Medicare reimbursement to 

eligible clinicians includes both positive and negative payment adjustments

 that take into account quality, 

promoting interoperability, cost, and improvement

 activities.

 Data collected in the first MIPS performance year 

(2017) determined payment adjustments that began January 1, 2019.

 MACRA standards continue to evolve, and 

represent a fundamental change in physician reimbursement that is expected

 to provide substantial financial 

incentives for physicians to participate in risk contracts, and to increase physician

 information technology and 

reporting obligations.

 The implications of the implementation of MACRA are uncertain

 and will depend on future 

regulatory activity and physician activity in the marketplace.

 New payment and delivery system reform programs, 

including those modeled after such federal program, are also increasingly being

 rolled out at the state level through 

Medicaid administrators, as well as through the private sector, which may further alter the marketplace

 and impact 

our business.

Recently, in addition to other government efforts to control health care costs, there has been increased scrutiny on 

drug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the

 President, executive branch 

agencies and various states. At the state level, several states have adopted

 laws that require drug manufacturers to 

provide advance notice of certain price increases and to report information

 relating to those price increases, while 

others have taken legislative or administrative action to establish prescription

 drug affordability boards or multi-

payer purchasing pools to reduce the cost of prescription drugs.

 At the federal level, several related bills have been 

introduced and regulations proposed which, if enacted or finalized,

 respectively, would impact drug pricing and 

related costs. 

As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, the health care distribution

 industry in the United 

States is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes.

 We cannot predict what further reform 

proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. 

EU Directive on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products

EU law provides for the regulation of the pricing of medicinal products which are

 implemented by EU member 

states (Directive No. 89/105/EC of 21 December 1988 

relating to the transparency of measures regulating the 

pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in the scope of national health insurance

 systems

).

Member states may, subject notably to transparency conditions and to the statement of reasons based upon 

objective and verifiable criteria, regulate the price charged (or its increases) for authorized

 medicines and their level 

of reimbursement, or they may freeze prices, place controls on the profitability

 of persons responsible for placing 

medicinal products on the market, and include or exclude the medicine on

 the list of products covered by national 

health insurance systems.
16 

EU law does not expressly include provisions like those of the Sunshine Act in

 the United States, but a growing 

number of EU member states (such as France since 2011) have enacted laws to increase the transparency

 of 

relationships in the healthcare sector. The scope of these laws varies from on member state to another and may, for 

example, include the relations between healthcare industry players and

 physicians or their associations, students 

preparing for medical professions or their associations, teachers, health

 establishments or publishers of prescription 

and dispensing assistance software. 

Regulated Software; Electronic Health Records 

The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of

 computer software and digital health 

products intended for use in health care settings.

 The 21st Century Cures Act (the “Cures Act”), signed into law on 

December 13, 2016, among other things, amended the medical device definition

 to exclude certain software from 

FDA regulation, including clinical decision support software that meets certain

 criteria.

 On September 27, 2019, 

the FDA issued a suite of guidance documents on digital health products, which

 incorporated applicable Cures Act 

standards, including

 regarding the types of clinical decision support tools and other software that are

 exempt from 

regulation by the FDA as medical devices, and continues to issue new guidance

 in this area.

 Certain of our 

businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products

 to support physician and dental 

practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government

 authorities could determine that one or 

more of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one

 or more of our businesses to substantial 

additional requirements with respect to these products. 

In addition, our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management

 products, and our specialty home 

medical supply business, include electronic information

 technology systems that store and process personal health, 

clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals.

 These information technology systems may be 

vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious

 attack, which could require us to 

expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related

 security concerns and could involve 

claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies.

 For example, we are directly or indirectly 

subject to numerous and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and

 regulations that protect the privacy and 

security of personal information, such as the federal Health Insurance Portability

 and Accountability Act of 1996, 

as amended, and implementing regulations (“HIPAA”), the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography 

and Marketing Act, the Telephone Protection and Electronic Protection Act of 1991, Section 5 of the Federal Trade 

Commission Act, the California Privacy Act (“CCPA”), and the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”) that 

becomes effective on January 1, 2023.

 Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection are

 continually 

evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. These requirements

 may not be harmonized, may be 

interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction

 to another or may conflict with other 

rules or our practices.

 Our businesses’ failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose

 us to breach 

of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses,

 costs for remediation and harm to 

our reputation.

 Also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict

 the ability of our customers to obtain, 

use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant

 additional costs to re-design our 

products to reflect these legal requirements, which could have a material

 adverse effect on our operations.

Also, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted

 the pan-European General Data 

Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), effective from May 25, 2018, which increased

 privacy rights for individuals in 

Europe (“Data Subjects”), including individuals who are our customers, suppliers

 and employees.

 The GDPR 

extended the scope of responsibilities for data controllers and data processors,

 and generally imposes increased 

requirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that offer goods or

 services to Data Subjects or 

monitor their behavior (including by companies based outside of Europe).

 Noncompliance can result in penalties of 

up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues, and

 Data Subjects may seek damages. EU 

member states may individually impose additional requirements and penalties

 regarding certain matters, such as 

employee personal data.

 With respect to the personal data it protects, the GDPR requires, among other things, 

company accountability, consents from Data Subjects or other acceptable legal basis to process the personal data, 

breach notifications within 72 hours, data integrity and security, and fairness and transparency regarding the 

storage, use or other processing of the personal data.

 The GDPR also provides rights to Data Subjects relating 

notably to information, access, modification, erasure and transporting

 of the personal data.
17 

In the United States, the CCPA, which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents, became 

effective January 1, 2020.

 The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections 

regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information

 of California residents.

 Compliance 

with the new obligations imposed by the CCPA depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply 

them, and because the CCPA is relatively new,

 and its implementing regulations were released in August of

 2020, 

there remains some uncertainty about how the CCPA will be interpreted by the courts and enforced by the 

regulators. If we fail to comply with the CCPA or if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the CCPA, 

we may be subject to certain fines or other penalties and litigation,

 any of which may negatively impact our 

reputation, require us to expend significant resources, and harm our business.

 Furthermore, California voters 

approved the CPRA on November 3, 2020, which will amend and

 expand the CCPA, including by providing 

consumers with additional rights with respect to their personal information,

 and creating a new state agency to 

enforce the CCPA and the CPRA.

 The CPRA will come into effect on January 1, 2023, applying to information 

collected by businesses on or after January 1, 2022.

Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly

 considered the adoption of similarly expansive 

personal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance.

 While we believe we have 

substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with

 the GDPR, CCPA and CPRA requirements, 

our compliance with these measures is likely to impose additional costs on us,

 and we cannot predict whether the 

interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response

 to new requirements or interpretations of 

the requirements,

 could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and 

manage patient medical or dental records.

 These customers, and we, are subject to laws, regulations and industry 

standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection of 

the privacy and security of those records, and our products may

 also be used as part of these customers’ 

comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with

 applicable privacy 

and security laws.

 Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services,

 or the perceived or actual 

failure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply

 with applicable legal or contractual data 

privacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational

 harm, but may also lead to claims 

against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies

 and involve substantial fines, penalties and other 

liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation. 

Various

 federal initiatives involve the adoption and use by health care

 providers of certain electronic health care 

records systems and processes.

 The

 initiatives include, among others, programs that incentivize physicians

 and 

dentists, through MIPS, to use EHR technology in accordance with certain

 evolving requirements, including 

regarding quality, promoting interoperability, cost and improvement activities.

 Qualification for the MIPS 

incentive payments requires the use of EHRs that are certified as having certain

 capabilities designated in evolving 

standards adopted by CMS and by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health

 Information Technology

 of 

HHS (“ONC”).

 Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale

 of such certified EHR systems and 

other products linked to government supported incentive programs.

 In order to maintain certification of our EHR 

products, we must satisfy these changing governmental standards.

 If any of our EHR systems do not meet these 

standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive

 federal incentive payments, we may be 

exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws,

 including the False Claims Act.

 For 

example, on May 31, 2017, the U.S. Department of Justice announced a $155

 million settlement and 5-year 

corporate integrity agreement involving a vendor of certified EHR systems, based

 on allegations that the vendor, by 

misrepresenting capabilities to the certifying body, caused its health care provider customers to submit false 

Medicare and Medicaid claims for meaningful use incentive payments

 in violation of the False Claims Act.

Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex 

functionality, such as reporting functionality.

 Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the

 effort 

may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product

 modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable 

standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic 

health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic

 transactions, such as transactions 

involving claims submissions to third party payers.

 Failure to abide by these and other electronic health data   
18 

transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims,

 substantial fines, penalties, and other liabilities 

and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. 

Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the 

ability of these connected systems to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged

 information becomes 

increasingly important.

 For example, on September 6, 2017, the FDA issued final

 guidance to assist industry in 

identifying specific considerations related to the ability of electronic medical

 devices to safely and effectively 

exchange and use exchanged information.

 As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including 

those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a

 medical device. 

There may be additional legislative or regulatory initiatives in the future

 impacting health care. 

E-Commerce 

Electronic commerce solutions have become an integral part of traditional health

 care supply and distribution 

relationships.

 Our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological

 developments and intense 

competition.

 The continuing advancement of online commerce requires

 us to cost-effectively adapt to changing 

technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a

 variety of new services to address the 

changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis, particularly

 in response to competitive 

offerings.

Through our proprietary, technologically-based suite of products, we offer customers a variety of competitive 

alternatives.

 We believe that our tradition of reliable service, our name recognition and large customer base built 

on solid customer relationships, position us well to participate in

 this significant aspect of the distribution business.

We continue to explore ways and means to improve and expand our Internet presence and capabilities, including 

our online commerce offerings and our use of various social media outlets. 

International Transactions 

United States and foreign import and export laws and regulations require us to

 abide by certain standards relating to 

the importation and exportation of products.

 We also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the 

conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices

 Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German 

anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to

 the accuracy of our internal books and 

records, as well as other types of foreign requirements similar to those

 imposed in the United States. 

While we believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws

 and regulations promulgated 

thereunder and

 possess all material permits and licenses required for the conduct

 of our business, there can be no 

assurance that regulations that impact our business or customers’ practices

 will not have a material adverse effect 

on our business.

See “

Item 1A. Risk Factors