Item 1A. Risk Factors

.

” for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments

 that may 

affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

Proprietary Rights

We hold trademarks relating to the “Henry Schein

®

” name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks.

 We intend 

to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable.
19 

Employees and Human Capital 

At Henry Schein, our employees are our greatest asset.

 We employ more than 19,000 full-time equivalent 

employees, including approximately 2,250 telesales representatives, over

 3,450 field sales consultants, including 

equipment sales specialists, 2,000 installation and repair technicians, 3,550 warehouse

 employees, 800 computer 

programmers and technicians, 675 management employees and 6,300 office, clerical

 and administrative employees.

Approximately 49% of our workforce is based in the United States and

 approximately 51% is based outside of the 

United States.

Approximately 13% of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.

 We believe 

that our relations with our employees are excellent. 

We refer to our employees as Team

 Schein Members, or “TSMs.”

 Our TSMs are the cornerstone of the Company.

Our success is built on the engagement and commitment of our team, which

 is dedicated to meeting the needs of 

our customers, supplier partners, fellow TSMs, stockholders and society.

 We are committed to supporting the 

personal and professional development of our TSMs, as well as providing competitive

 benefits and a safe, inclusive 

workplace, and believe that these measures help us to retain our TSMs

 and attract new TSMs.

 As part of this 

commitment, we have, among other things: 

•

Developed a strong collaborative workplace culture.

 We believe our TSMs’ ability to effectively 

communicate and cooperate across functional and departmental teams positively

 impacts our performance.

Each TSM’s performance is evaluated annually, based on a measure of Team Schein values, with a focus 

on open communication.

 Our team’s performance as a whole is evaluated via a culture survey, conducted 

every two years, distributed to all TSMs, which, among other things,

 addresses collaboration.

 The results 

from our culture surveys are reviewed by senior leaders, reported to the Board

 of Directors and used to 

implement programs and processes designed to further enhance our culture.

 We are currently in the 

process of further developing our collaborative culture by, among other things, strengthening our existing 

commitment to diversity and inclusion, as further described below. 

•

Committed to

 enhance our

 Diversity

 and Inclusion

 (“D&I”) initiatives.

 We

 believe

 a

 diverse workforce 

fosters innovation and cultivates an environment filled with unique

 perspectives.

 As a result, D&I helps us 

meet the needs of customers around the world.

 We collect feedback through hosting roundtables where our 

senior

 leaders

 actively

 listen

 to

 our

 TSMs

 on

 topics

 related

 to

 D&I,

 and

 the

 insights

 learned

 are

 used

 to 

guide

 our

 efforts

 to

 support

 a

 diverse

 and

 inclusive

 environment.

 To

 guide

 our

 efforts

 and

 education 

related to

 D&I, we

 have established

 an Executive

 Diversity and

 Inclusion Council

 with engagement

 from 

our Board of Directors and Executive Management Committee. This

 Council drives the Company’s overall 

D&I strategy.

 In 2020, we launched

 a D&I learning

 program to educate our

 TSMs on critical

 D&I related 

topics, and management is incentivized to advance our D&I efforts.

 Additionally, we promote engagement 

by

 utilizing

 our

 Employee

 Resource

 Groups

 as

 an

 inclusive

 and

 diverse

 vehicle

 for

 all

 TSMs

 to

 share, 

connect, learn, and develop both personally and professionally.

 We believe that these efforts will serve as a 

critical

 stepping stone

 as

 we

 continue to

 strengthen our

 D&I

 initiatives in

 an

 effort

 to

 meet

 the

 evolving 

needs of our customers, supplier partners, TSMs, stockholders and society. 

•

Committed to the professional development of our TSMs.

 We have invested in education and skill building, 

and provide formal and informal learning opportunities to our TSMs.

 All TSMs globally are offered a 

broad suite of talent and professional development training programs

 targeted to specific learning 

opportunities based on their current and potential future role within

 the Company.

 We also offer

 over 50 

organizational and development training courses designed to aid in the overall development

 and 

advancement of skills and competencies to enable organizational success.

•

Supported talent development and succession planning.

 Talent planning efforts are an integral part of our 

commitment to ensure a strong leadership pipeline across the organization. We continuously identify a 

group of potential management successors as part of our succession planning

 process.

 Our senior leaders 

work to develop our TSMs’ talent and focus the team to execute our

 long-term strategic plans.

 Our Board 

of Directors is provided with periodic updates regarding our

 talent development and succession planning 

efforts, participates in professional development activities with our TSMs and receives

 formal 

documentation on these topics annually.
20 

•

Supported TSM health and safety.

 We offer competitive health and wellness programs and other benefits to 

eligible TSMs.

 In addition to employee health, we are committed to providing

 a safe and secure work 

environment for all TSMs.

 In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in March 2020, we implemented 

certain policy and procedure changes in an effort to protect our TSMs and customers,

 and to support 

appropriate health and safety protocols.

 While TSMs at our manufacturing and distribution facilities, as 

well as field sales consultants and equipment service technicians, have

 continued to work onsite or in the 

field to provide vital services to our customers, most TSMs in administrative

 functions have effectively 

worked remotely since mid-March.

 To support the health and safety of our TSMs, we, among other things, 

implemented extensive cleaning and sanitation processes and face

 mask policies to protect TSMs at our 

manufacturing and distribution facilities, instituted social distancing

 and face mask policies for our field 

sales consultants and equipment service technicians and adopted broad work-from-home

 initiatives for 

TSMs in administrative functions. In connection with this shift to remote working,

 we made investments in 

equipment, technology, and security upgrades to help protect our information and enhance our team’s 

ability to work remotely.

 Additionally, to help the team manage stress during the pandemic, we, among 

other things, established a “COVID-19 Resource Center” to provide a central

 location for all 

communications to support the health of TSMs and their families, and hold

 virtual Global Town Halls for 

all TSMs. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge through our Internet website, 

www.henryschein.com

, our annual report on Form 

10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements

 of beneficial ownership of 

securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements

 filed or furnished pursuant to 

Section 13(a) and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

 as soon as reasonably practicable after such 

materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities

 and Exchange Commission, or 

SEC.

 Our principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road, Melville, New

 York

 11747, and our 

telephone number is (631) 843-5500.

 Unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the

 “Company,” 

“Henry Schein,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware

 corporation, and its consolidated 

subsidiaries.   
21 

Information about our Executive Officers 

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: 

Name 

Age 

Position 

Stanley M. Bergman

71 

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Director 

Gerald A. Benjamin

68 

Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Director 

James P.

 Breslawski

67 

Vice Chairman, President, Director 

Michael S. Ettinger

59 

Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs and Chief of Staff, Secretary 

Mark E. Mlotek

65 

Executive Vice President, Chief Strategic Officer, Director 

Steven Paladino

63 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Director 

Walter Siegel

61 

Senior Vice President and General Counsel 

Stanley M. Bergman

 has been our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1989 and a director

 since 1982.

Mr. Bergman held the position of President from 1989 to 2005.

 Mr. Bergman held the position of Executive Vice 

President from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and Administration from 1980 to 1985.

Gerald A. Benjamin

 has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since 2000 and a 

director since 1994.

 Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President of 

Administration and Customer Satisfaction since 1993.

 Mr. Benjamin was Vice

 President of Distribution 

Operations from 1990 to 1992 and Director of Materials Management

 from 1988 to 1990.

 Before joining us in 

1988, Mr. Benjamin was employed for 12 years at Estée Lauder, Inc., in various management positions where his 

last position was Director of Materials Planning and Control.

James P. Breslawski

 has been our Vice Chairman since 2018, President since 2005 and a director since 1992.

 Mr. 

Breslawski was the Chief Executive Officer of our Henry Schein Global Dental

 Group from 2005 to 2018.

 Mr. 

Breslawski held the position of Executive Vice President and President of U.S. Dental from 1990 to 2005, with 

primary responsibility for the North American Dental Group.

 Between 1980 and 1990, Mr. Breslawski held 

various positions with us, including Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Administration and 

Corporate Controller. 

Michael S. Ettinger

 has been our Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs, Chief of Staff and Secretary 

since 2015.

 Prior to his current position, Mr. Ettinger served as Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs 

and Secretary from 2013 to 2015, Corporate Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary from 2006 to 

2013, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2000 to 2006, Vice President and Associate General 

Counsel from 1998 to 2000 and Associate General Counsel from 1994

 to 1998.

 Before joining us, Mr. Ettinger 

served as a senior associate with Bower & Gardner and as a member of

 the Tax Department at Arthur Andersen. 

Mark E. Mlotek

 has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Strategic Officer since 2012.

 Mr. Mlotek was 

Senior Vice President and subsequently Executive Vice President of the Corporate Business Development Group 

between 2000 and 2012.

 Prior to that, Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 

1999 and became a director in 1995.

 Prior to joining us, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of Proskauer 

Rose LLP,

 counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from

 1989 

to 1994. 

Steven Paladino

 has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2000.

 Prior to holding 

his current position, Mr. Paladino was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to 2000 and 

has been a director since 1992.

 From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Paladino served as Vice President and Treasurer and from 

1987 to 1990 served as Corporate Controller.

 Before joining us, Mr. Paladino was employed in public accounting 

for seven years, most recently with the international accounting

 firm of BDO USA, LLP.

 Mr. Paladino is a 

certified public accountant. 
22 

Walter Siegel

 has been our Senior Vice President and General Counsel since 2013.

 Prior to joining us, Mr. Siegel 

was employed with Standard Microsystems Corporation, a publicly

 traded global semiconductor company from 

2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as Senior Vice President, General 

Counsel and Secretary.

Other Executive Management 

The following table sets forth certain information regarding other Executive

 Management: 

Name 

Age 

Position 

David Brous 

52 

President, Strategic Business Units Group and

 Asia Pacific & Brazil Dental 

Brad Connett 

62 

President, U.S. Medical Group 

Jonathan Koch

46 

Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, Global Dental Group 

Lorelei McGlynn

57 

Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer 

James Mullins 

56 

Senior Vice President, Global Services 

Christopher Pendergast 

58 

Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 

Michael Racioppi

66 

Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer 

René Willi, Ph.D. 

53 

President, Global Dental Surgical Group 

David Brous

 has been our President, Strategic Business Units Group and Asia

 Pacific & Brazil Dental since 2019.

Mr. Brous joined us in 2002 and has held many positions within the organization, including leading and managing 

the Corporate Business Development Group and the International Healthcare Group

 (managing our International 

Animal Health business, International Medical business and Australia

 / New Zealand Dental business). 

Brad Connett

 has been our President of the U.S. Medical Group since 2018.

 Mr. Connett joined us in 1997 and 

has held a number of increasingly responsible positions at the Company.

 Throughout his career, he has received 

numerous industry honors, including the John F. Sasen Leadership Award from the Health Industry Distributors 

Association (HIDA), in recognition of his service to the industry, and induction into the Medical Distribution Hall 

of Fame by Repertoire Magazine. 

Jonathan Koch

 has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of our Global Dental Group since 

2018.

 Prior to joining us, for the years 2006 to 2018, Mr. Koch was a senior executive at Covance,

 the drug 

development services business of Laboratory Corporation of America.

 In his last role at Covance, Mr. Koch was 

the Executive Vice President and Group President of Covance Clinical Development & Commercialization 

Services.

 Prior to that, Mr. Koch was Executive Vice President and Group President of Covance Research and 

Development Laboratories from 2015 to 2017.

 Mr. Koch was also President of Covance Central Laboratory 

Services from 2010 to 2015,

 and Vice President at Covance, with various responsibilities, from 2006 to 2010.

 Prior 

to Covance, Mr. Koch held senior leadership roles of increasing responsibility while employed with Charles River 

Laboratories from 1998 to 2006.

Lorelei McGlynn

 has been our Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources Officer since 2013.

 Since joining 

us in 1999, Ms. McGlynn has served as Vice President, Global Human Resources and Financial Operations from 

2008 to 2013, Chief Financial Officer, International Group and Vice President of Global Financial Operations from 

2002 to 2008 and Vice President, Finance, North America from 1999 to 2002.

 Prior to joining us, Ms. McGlynn 

served as Assistant Vice President of Finance at Adecco Corporation. 

James Mullins

 has been our Senior Vice President of Global Services since 2018.

 Mr. Mullins joined us in 1988 

and has held a number of key positions with increasing responsibility, including Global Chief Customer Service 

Officer. 
23 

Christopher Pendergast

 has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since 2018.

 Prior to 

joining us, Mr. Pendergast was the employed by VSP Global from 2008 to 2018, most recently as the Chief 

Technology Officer and Chief Information Officer.

 Prior to VSP Global, Mr. Pendergast served in roles of 

increasing responsibility at Natural Organics, Inc., from 2006 to 2008, IdeaSphere Inc./Twinlab Corporation from 

2000 to 2006, IBM Corporation from 1987 to 1994 and 1998 to 2000

 and Rohm and Haas from 1994 to 1998. 

Michael Racioppi

 has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer since 2008. Prior to holding 

his current position, Mr. Racioppi was President of the Medical Division from 2000 to 2008 and Interim President 

from 1999 to 2000, and Corporate Vice President from 1994 to 2008, with primary responsibility for the Medical 

Group, Marketing and Merchandising departments.

 Mr. Racioppi served as Senior Director, Corporate 

Merchandising from 1992 to 1994.

 Before joining us in 1992, Mr. Racioppi was employed by Ketchum 

Distributors, Inc. as the Vice President of Purchasing and Marketing.

 He currently serves on the board of National 

Distribution and Contracting and previously served on the board of Health

 Distribution Management Association 

and Health Industry Distributors Association (HIDA). 

René Willi, Ph.D.

 has been our President, Global Dental Surgical Group, Henry Schein Inc., since 2013.

 Prior to 

joining Henry Schein, Dr. Willi held senior level roles with Institut Straumann AG as Executive Vice President, 

Surgical Business Unit from 2005 to 2013.

 Prior to Straumann, he held roles of increasing responsibility

 in 

Medtronic Plc’s cardiovascular division from 2003

 to 2005 and with McKinsey & Company as a management 

consultant from 2000 to 2003.   
24 

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

Our business operations could be affected by factors that are not presently known

 to us or that we currently 

consider not to be material to our operations, so you should not consider

 the risks disclosed in this section to 

necessarily represent a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties.

 The Company believes that the following 

risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial

 results, financial condition and/or 

the trading price of our common stock.

 The order in which these factors appear does not necessarily reflect

 their 

relative importance or priority.

COMPANY RISKS 

Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and

 liquidity may be negatively impacted by 

the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or similar wide-spread public

 health concerns and other 

natural disasters

. 

The COVID-19 pandemic and the responses of governments

 to it had, and may again have, a 

material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may

 result in a material 

adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. 

Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and

 liquidity may be negatively impacted by the 

effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, similar wide-spread public health concerns,

 and other natural 

disasters. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have,

 an unprecedented impact on society, worldwide 

economic activity, and the health care sector (particularly, the dental market). As a global healthcare solutions 

company, the COVID-19 pandemic and the governmental responses to it had, and may again have, a material 

adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a

 material adverse effect on 

our financial condition and liquidity. In March and April 2020, the dental market was severely impacted by 

COVID-19, with many, if not a majority, of practices being closed or open on a limited basis only. Although dental 

practice openings and patient volume recovery in the United States and

 many other countries have rebounded faster 

than originally anticipated, patient volumes have remained below pre-COVID-19

 levels.

 Material uncertainty 

remains and the potential for additional significant resurgences of COVID-19

 could cause a significant reduction in 

dental practice openings and patient volume recovery, or further delay the return to normal operations. Even

 after 

COVID-19 has subsided, we may again experience material adverse

 impacts to our business, results of operations 

and cash flows as a result of, among other things, its global economic

 impact, including any recession that may 

occur in the future, or a prolonged period of economic slowdown or the

 reluctance of patients to return for elective 

dental or medical care. The impacts and potential impacts from

 the COVID-19 pandemic include, but are not 

limited to: 

• 

Significant reductions in demand or significant volatility in demand for certain of our products.

 For example, in 

March and April 2020, many dental offices in the United States performed only emergency procedures,

 and 

rescheduled wellness exams and elective procedures. Dental offices in other countries

 also experienced closures or 

restricted operations, as did medical offices around the world. Such closures and restrictions

 impacted our 

customers’ spending with us and had, and if reinstated may again have, a material

 adverse effect on our business, 

results of operations and cash flows. Although dental practice openings and

 patient volume recovery have 

rebounded faster than originally anticipated, capacity constraints

 in offices and demand-side factors may again lead 

to reductions in demand or significant volatility in demand for our products. Additionally, significant reduction in 

demand for certain of our products or customers’ decisions to delay

 the purchase of large equipment may result in 

us having increased inventory; 

• 

Shortage of Certain Personal Protective Equipment (PPE

). Supply chain disruptions for PPE and an increased 

demand for these products has resulted, and may continue to result,

 in backorders of certain PPE and a potential 

scarcity in raw materials to make certain PPE. Prices for certain PPE have been

 volatile. Although we believe that 

most practices currently are able to access adequate supply, with some exceptions in certain markets depending on 

a number of factors, including the progress of the virus and efforts to combat it, we

 still may be unable to supply 

our customers with the quantity of certain PPE products they demand,

 which may lead to our customers seeking 

alternative sources of supply. Furthermore, healthcare professionals’ inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of 

certain PPE would

 adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows,

 and could materially 

adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Conversely, we recorded significant charges throughout the 

year beginning in the second quarter for PPE inventory due to volatility

 of pricing for PPE, and, depending upon   
25 

the course of the pandemic, if PPE pricing or demand decreases, our

 margins and the value of certain our PPE 

inventory could be further negatively impacted in future periods, which

 could result in a material adverse impact on 

our business, results of operations and cash flows and our financial condition

 and liquidity; 

• 

Reduction in Peoples’ Ability and Willingness to be in Public.

 Restrictions recommended by several public health 

organizations, and implemented by many local governments, to slow and limit the transmission

 of COVID-19 

(including business closures and restrictions, stay-at-home and similar measures)

 were implemented and then lifted 

or partially lifted in some locations and reinstituted in others. Ongoing

 social distancing ordinances and similar 

restrictions, and the actual and potential for additional resurgences of COVID-19

 has in some locations and may in 

other locations result in the re-imposition or tightening of governmental

 social distancing and other restrictions, 

and/or cause people to be less willing to go to elective medical and dental

 appointments, which could again 

materially adversely affect demand for our products. A lengthened period of materially

 suppressed demand could 

again cause material adverse impacts on our business, results of operations

 and cash flows and could materially 

adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity; 

• 

Potential delays in customer payments, or defaults on our customer credit arrangements.

 We generally sell 

products to customers with payment terms. If customers’ cash

 flows or operating and financial performance 

deteriorate due to the impact of COVID-19, or if they are unable to make scheduled

 payments or obtain credit, they 

may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. Likewise, for similar reasons, suppliers may restrict credit or 

impose more stringent payment terms. The inability of current and/or

 potential customers to pay us for our products 

and/or services or any demands by suppliers for more stringent payment terms

 may materially adversely affect our 

business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and

 liquidity and may limit the amounts we can 

borrow under our trade accounts receivable securitization; 

• 

Impact on third parties’ ability to meet their obligations to us; impact on our ability to meet obligations

 to third 

parties.

 Failure of third parties on which we rely, including our suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, 

contractors (including third-party shippers), banks, joint venture partners

 and external business partners, to meet 

their obligations to us, or significant disruptions in their ability to do

 so, which may be caused by their own 

financial or operational difficulties, or by travel restrictions and border closures, may materially

 adversely affect 

our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and

 liquidity. Certain of our contracts with 

supply partners contain minimum purchase requirements or include rebate provisions

 if we satisfy certain sales or 

purchasing targets that, in certain cases we have not been able to satisfy and in other

 cases we may not be able to 

fully satisfy, due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Rebate income recognized in fiscal 2020 is less than 

rebates earned over the prior fiscal year. Our failure to satisfy such contractual provisions or renegotiate

 more 

favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations

 and cash flows; 

• 

Negative impact on our workforce and impact of adapted business practices.

 The spread of COVID-19 caused us 

to implement temporary cost reduction measures (including a payroll

 cost reduction plan centered around 

furloughs, reduced pay and work hours, voluntary unpaid time off, suspension of Company

 contributions to certain 

retirement plans and job reductions), all of which have now ended (except

 for a small number of TSMs who remain 

on furlough), modify our business practices (including employee

 travel, employee work locations, and cancellation 

of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and

 we may take further actions as may be required 

by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests

 of our employees. As the COVID-19 

pandemic continues to unfold, we will continue to evaluate appropriate actions

 for our business. Many of our 

employees shifted abruptly to working remotely and our non-essential workers

 who are able to work from home 

continue to do so. An extended period of modified business practices

 and remote work arrangements could have a 

negative impact on employee morale, strain our business continuity plans,

 introduce operational risk (including but 

not limited to cybersecurity risks), and impair our ability to efficiently operate our

 business; 

• 

Significant changes in political conditions.

 Significant changes in political conditions in markets in which

 we 

purchase and distribute our products have occurred and are expected to

 continue at least during the pendency of the 

pandemic, including quarantines, governmental or regulatory actions, closures

 or other restrictions that limit or 

close our operating facilities, restrict our employees’ ability to

 travel or perform necessary business functions, or 

otherwise constrain the operations of our business partners, suppliers, or

 customers, which may materially 

adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition

 and liquidity; 
26 

• 

Potential impact on our ability to meet obligations under credit facilities.

 Although in fiscal 2020 we entered into 

amendments to our material credit facilities to, among other things,

 extend the maturity dates and temporarily 

provide additional flexibility under certain covenants, an extended negative

 impact of COVID-19 on our business, 

results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity could

 impact our ability to meet our obligations 

under credit facilities or outstanding long term debt, which contain

 maximum leverage ratios, and customary 

representations, warranties and affirmative covenants; 

• 

Volatility

 in the financial markets.

 Volatility

 in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the 

availability and cost of credit to us; 

• 

Refocusing management resources to mitigate effects of COVID-19

. Our management is focused on mitigating the 

effects of COVID-19, which has required, and may continue to require for the duration of

 the pandemic, a large 

investment of time and resources across the Company, and may delay certain strategic and other plans, which could 

materially adversely affect our business; 

• 

Potential

increased costs associated with our self-insured medical insurance programs. 

We may incur significant 

employee health care costs under our self-insurance medical insurance programs

 if a large number of our 

employees and/or their covered family members become ill from COVID-19;

 and 

• 

Reputational risk associated with response to COVID-19.

 If we do not respond appropriately to the COVID-19 

pandemic, or if customers do not perceive our response to be adequate, we could

 suffer damage to our reputation 

and our brands, which could materially adversely affect our business. 

The impact of COVID-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed below, any of which could have a material 

adverse effect on us. 

We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. 

We obtain substantially all of the products we distribute from third parties, with whom we generally do not have 

long-term contracts. While there is typically more than one source of

 supply, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, 

supply a significant portion of the products we sell.

 In 2020, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and

 our 

single largest supplier accounted for approximately 30%

 and 4%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases.

Because of our dependence upon such suppliers, our operations are

 subject to the suppliers’ ability and willingness 

to supply products in the quantities that we require, and the risks include delays

 caused by interruption in 

production based on conditions outside of our control, including

 a supplier’s failure to comply with applicable 

government requirements (which may result in product recalls and/or

 cessation of sales) or an interruption in the 

suppliers’ manufacturing capabilities. In the event of any such

 interruption in supply, we would need to identify and 

obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. There is no guarantee

 that we would be able to obtain such 

alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all, and an extended interruption

 in supply, particularly of a 

high sales volume product, could result in a significant disruption in our sales

 and operations, as well as damage to 

our relationships with customers and our reputation.

Our

 future

 growth

 (especially

 for

 our

 technology

 and

 value-added

 services

 segment)

 is

 dependent

 upon

 our 

ability

 to

 develop

 or

 acquire

 and

 maintain

 and

 protect

 new

 products

 and

 technologies

 that

 achieve

 market 

acceptance with acceptable margins. 

Our future success

 depends on our ability

 to timely develop (or

 obtain the right

 to sell) competitive

 and innovative 

(particularly

 for

 our

 technology

 and

 value-added

 services

 segment),

 products

 and

 services

 and

 to

 market

 them 

quickly and

 cost-effectively.

 Our ability

 to anticipate

 customer needs

 and emerging

 trends and

 develop or

 acquire 

new products,

 services and

 technologies at

 competitive prices

 requires significant

 resources, including

 employees 

with the requisite skills, experience

 and expertise, particularly in our

 technology segment, including dental practice 

management, patient engagement and demand creation software solutions.

 The failure to successfully address these 

challenges

 could

 materially

 disrupt

 our

 sales

 and

 operations.

 Additionally,

 our

 software

 and

 e-services

 products, 

like

 software

 products generally,

 may

 contain

 undetected errors

 or

 bugs

 when introduced

 or

 as

 new

 versions

 are 

released. Any such defective

 software may result in

 increased expenses related to the

 software and could adversely 

affect

 our

 relationships

 with

 customers

 as

 well

 as

 our

 reputation.

 While

 certain

 software

 and

 e-services

 that

 we   
27 

develop are protected

 under patent law,

 we rely primarily

 upon copyright, trademark

 and trade secret

 laws, as well 

as contractual and

 common law protections and

 confidentiality obligations. We

 cannot provide assurance that

 such 

legal protections will be

 available, adequate or enforceable in

 a timely manner to protect

 our software or e-services 

products. 

Our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves

 risks and may not result in the benefits and 

revenue growth we expect. 

One of our business strategies has been to expand our domestic and

 international markets in part through 

acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions

 and enter into joint ventures in the 

future. Such transactions require significant management attention,

 may place significant demands on our 

operations, information systems and financial resources, and there

 is risk that one or more may not succeed. We 

cannot be sure, for example, that we will achieve the benefits of revenue

 growth that we expect from these 

acquisitions or joint ventures or that we will avoid unforeseen additional

 costs or expenses.

 Our ability to 

successfully implement our acquisition and joint venture strategy depends

 upon, among other things, the following: 

•

the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at

 acceptable prices; 

•

our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially

 be prohibited due to U.S. or 

foreign antitrust regulations; 

•

the liquidity of our investments and the availability of financing on

 acceptable terms; 

•

our ability to retain customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or

 joint ventures; 

•

our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies

 we acquire; and 

•

our ability to successfully integrate these companies’ operations, services,

 products and personnel with 

our culture, management policies, internal procedures, working capital

 management, financial and 

operational controls and strategies. 

Furthermore, some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may give

 rise to an obligation to make contingent 

payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments

 could have material adverse impacts on our 

financial results individually or in the aggregate. 

Certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to

 which we are a party may discourage 

third parties from seeking to acquire us that might otherwise result in

 our stockholders receiving a premium 

over the market price of their shares. 

The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may

 make it more difficult for a third-party to 

acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may impact the price

 that certain investors might be willing to pay 

in the future for shares of our common stock.

 These provisions, among other things require: 

•

 the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock

 entitled to vote to 

approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our 

assets; and 

•

 the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled

 to vote to (i) 

remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited

 exceptions. 

In addition, certain of our employee incentive plans provide for accelerated

 vesting of stock options and other 

awards upon termination without cause within two years following a change

 in control, or grant the plan committee 

discretion to accelerate awards upon a change of control.

 Further, certain agreements between us and our executive 

officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those

 executive officers are terminated 

without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason, in each case within

 two years following a change in 

control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control

 or after the first public 

announcement of the pendency of the change in control.
28 

INDUSTRY RISKS 

The health care products distribution industry is highly competitive

 (including, without limitation, competition 

from third-party online commerce sites) and consolidating, and we may not

 be able to compete successfully.

We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our 

competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which

 could allow them to compete more 

successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships 

with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights

 to market particular products, which we would 

then be unable to market. Manufacturers also could increase their

 efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby 

eliminate or reduce our role in distribution. Industry consolidation among health

 care product distributors and 

manufacturers, price competition, product unavailability, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or 

to interruptions in manufacturing supply, or the emergence of new competitors, also could increase competition. 

Consolidation has also increased among manufacturers of health care

 products, which could have a material 

adverse effect on our margins and product availability. We

 could be subject to charges and financial losses in the 

event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments contained

 in some of our contracts. Additionally, 

traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged

 by electronic online commerce 

solutions. The continued advancement of online commerce by third

 parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt 

to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business

 (including with additional 

value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and

 our customers on a timely basis. The 

emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and

 effectively respond to changes on a 

timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business.

The repeal or judicial prohibition on implementation of the Affordable Care Act

 could materially adversely 

affect our business. 

The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and

 Education Reconciliation 

Act, each enacted in March 2010, as amended (the “ACA”), greatly expanded

 health insurance coverage in the 

United States and has been the target of litigation and Congressional reform efforts since its adoption.

 The U.S. 

Supreme Court, in upholding the constitutionality of the ACA and its

 individual mandate provision in 2012, 

simultaneously limited ACA provisions requiring Medicaid expansion,

 making such expansion a state-by-state 

decision.

 In 2017, the U.S. Congress effectively repealed the ACA’s

 individual mandate provision by eliminating 

the financial penalty for non-compliance.

 In the most recent ACA litigation, a federal appeals court found

 the 

individual mandate to be unconstitutional, and returned the case to a lower federal

 court for consideration of 

whether the remainder of the ACA could survive the excision of the individual

 mandate.

 This decision was 

appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, and a decision is expected soon.

 Any outcome of this case that changes the 

ACA, in addition to future legislation, regulation, guidance and/or Executive

 Orders that do the same, could have a 

significant impact on the U.S. healthcare industry and our operations. 

The health care industry is experiencing changes due to political, economic and

 regulatory influences that could 

materially adversely affect our business. 

The health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing

 political, economic and regulatory influences.

In recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant

 changes 

driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other factors: trends

 toward managed care; collective 

purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and

 changes in 

reimbursements to customers, including increased attention to value-based payment

 arrangements, as well as 

growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental

 officials. Both our profitability 

and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws

 and regulations reducing 

reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and devices,

 and/or medical treatments or services, or 

changes to the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined.

 If we are unable to react effectively to 

these and other changes in the health care industry, our business could be materially adversely affected.
29 

Expansion of group purchasing organizations (“GPO”) or provider networks

 and the multi-tiered costing 

structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. 

The medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure,

 which can vary by manufacturer and/or 

product. Under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more

 favorable prices for medical products than we are 

able to obtain. The multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand

 as many large integrated health care providers 

and others with significant purchasing power, such as GPOs, demand more favorable pricing terms.

 Additionally, 

the formation of provider networks and GPOs may shift purchasing decisions

 to entities or persons with whom we 

do not have a historical relationship and may threaten our ability to compete

 effectively, which could in turn 

negatively impact our financial results. Although we are seeking to obtain similar

 terms from manufacturers to 

access lower prices demanded by GPO contracts or other contracts, and to

 develop relationships with existing and 

emerging provider networks and GPOs, we cannot guarantee that such terms will

 be obtained or contracts executed.

Increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers

 could harm our business. 

Shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. We ship almost all of our orders through third-

party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping 

rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating

 results. Similarly, strikes 

or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating

 expenses to rise and materially adversely 

affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis.

MACRO ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL RISKS 

Uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could

 materially adversely affect our results of 

operations and financial condition. 

Uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy

 and the economic outlook of the 

United States, Europe, Asia and other parts of the world could materially adversely

 affect our results of operations 

and financial condition. These uncertainties, include, among other things: 

•

election results; 

•

changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade (including, without

 limitation, the United States-

Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement of December 

2020, and other international trade agreements); 

•

greater restrictions on imports and exports; 

•

supply chain disruptions due to social issues; 

•

changes in laws and policies governing health care or data privacy; 

•

tariffs and sanctions; 

•

changes to the relationship between the United States and China; 

•

sovereign debt levels; 

•

the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived

 economic, currency or 

budgetary crises or issues; 

•

consumer confidence; 

•

unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured

 and underinsured population); 

•

changes in regulatory and tax regulations; 

•

increases in interest rates; 

•

availability of capital; 

•

increases in fuel and energy costs; 

•

the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase

 prices over time; 

•

changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions; 

•

increases in health care costs; 

•

the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest; and 

•

changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development and

 investment in territories and 

countries where we do business.
30 

Additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government 

spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending,

 and/or higher income or corporate 

taxes, which could depress spending overall. Recessionary conditions and depressed

 levels of consumer and 

commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products 

and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale.

 We generally sell products to 

customers with payment terms. If customers’ cash flow or operating and

 financial performance deteriorate, or if 

they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not

 be able to, or may delay, payment to us. 

Likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment

 terms. 

REGULATORY

 AND LITIGATION RISKS 

Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements

 could materially adversely affect our 

business. 

The laws and regulations that govern our business and operations are

 subject to varying and evolving 

interpretations, future changes, additions, and enforcement approaches

 (including in light of political changes, such 

as with respect to the new administration of President Biden) that

 affect our ability to comply.

 For example, 

President Biden’s administration has authorized and encouraged a freeze on certain federal regulations

 that have 

been published but are not yet effective, as well as a review of all federal regulations

 issued during President 

Trump’s administration.

 Changes with respect to the applicable laws and regulations may

 require us to update or 

revise our operations, services, marketing practices, and compliance programs

 and controls, and may impose 

additional and unforeseen costs on us, pose new or previously immaterial

 risks to us, or may otherwise have a 

material adverse effect on our business.

 There can be no assurance that current and future government

 regulations 

will not adversely affect our business, and we cannot predict new regulatory priorities,

 the form, content or timing 

of regulatory actions, and their impact on the health care industry and on

 our business and operations. 

Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on

 product pricing.

 In the United 

States, in addition to other government efforts to control health care costs, there has been

 increased scrutiny on drug 

pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the President,

 executive branch agencies 

and various states. At the state level, several states have adopted

 laws that require drug manufacturers to provide 

advance notice of certain price increases and to report information

 relating to those price increases, while others 

have taken legislative or administrative action to establish prescription drug

 affordability boards or multi-payer 

purchasing pools to reduce the cost of prescription drugs.

 At the federal level, several related bills have been 

introduced and regulations proposed which, if enacted or finalized,

 respectively, would impact drug pricing and 

related costs. 

Under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, we are required to collect

 and report detailed information regarding 

certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients, such as

 physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals.

We or our subsidiaries may be required to report information under certain state transparency laws that address 

circumstances not covered by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and

 some of these state laws, as well as the 

federal law, can be ambiguous.

 We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain 

interactions between suppliers and their customers.

 While we believe we have substantially compliant programs 

and controls in place satisfying the above laws and requirements,

 such compliance imposes additional costs on us 

and the requirements are sometimes ambiguous.

 In the United States, government actions to seek to increase 

health-related price transparency may also affect our business. 
31 

Our business is subject to additional requirements under various local, state,

 federal and international laws and 

regulations applicable to the sale and distribution of, and third-party

 payment for, pharmaceuticals and medical 

devices, human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products (“HCT/P products”).

 Among the federal laws 

with which we must comply are the Controlled Substances Act,

 the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as 

amended (“FDC Act”), the Federal Drug Quality and Security Act, including

 Drug Supply Chain Security Act 

(“DSCSA”), and Section 361 of the Public Health Services Act. Among

 other things, such laws, and the regulations 

promulgated thereunder:

•

regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting,

 record keeping, 

introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, HCT/P products

 and medical devices, including 

requirements with respect to unique medical device identifiers; 

•

subject us to inspection by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)

 and the U.S. Drug 

Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), and similar state authorities; 

•

regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products

 that are considered 

hazardous materials; 

•

require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance

 with applicable FDA 

requirements; 

•

require registration with the FDA and the DEA and various state agencies; 

•

require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; 

•

require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious

 orders of controlled 

substances to the DEA; 

•

require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject

 us to inspection of our 

recall procedures and activities;

•

impose on us reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, HCT/P product or

 medical device causes 

serious illness, injury or death; 

•

require manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers of prescription

 drugs to identify and 

trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed;

•

require the licensing of prescription drug wholesalers and third-party

 logistics providers; and

•

mandate compliance with standards for the recordkeeping, storage

 and handling of prescription drugs, 

and associated reporting requirements. 

The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of

 computer software and digital health 

products intended for use in health care settings.

 The 21st Century Cures Act (the “Cures Act”), signed into law on 

December 13, 2016, among other things, amended the medical device definition

 to exclude certain software from 

FDA regulation, including certain clinical decision support software.

 Certain of our businesses involve the 

development and sale of software and related products to support physician

 and dental practice management, and it 

is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine

 that one or more of our products is 

subject to regulation as a medical device, which could subject us or one

 or more of our businesses to substantial 

additional requirements, costs, and potential enforcement actions or liabilities

 for noncompliance with respect to 

these products. 

Applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require

 us to meet various standards 

relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, program eligibility, procurement, third-party 

reimbursement, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and

 supply tracking to product manufacturers, 

product labeling, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal

 information, installation, maintenance 

and repair of equipment and the importation and exportation of products.

 The FDA and DEA, as well as CMS 

(including with respect to complex Medicare reimbursement requirements

 applicable to our specialty home medical 

supplies business), have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement

 activities and, in particular, the DEA 

has heightened enforcement activities due to the opioid crisis in the United States.

 Our business is also subject to 

requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations

 affecting our operations abroad. 

The failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations, or new

 interpretations of existing laws and 

regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations,

 could materially adversely affect our business.

The costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable

 statutes and regulations, as they now exist 

and as they may be modified, could be material.

 Allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied 

with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses.

 While we believe that we are substantially   
32 

compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate

 compliance programs and controls in 

place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have

 not complied with these laws, we are 

potentially subject to penalties, including warning letters, substantial civil and

 criminal penalties, mandatory recall 

of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees and suspension

 or limitation of product sale and 

distribution.

 If we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance,

 we could be required 

to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including

 fines and the loss of licenses.

Non-compliance with government requirements could also adversely affect our ability

 to participate in important 

federal and state government health care programs, such as Medicare

 and Medicaid, and damage our reputation. 

The EU Medical Device Regulation may adversely affect our business.

The EU Medical Device Regulation No. 2017/745 (“EU MDR”) was meant

 to become applicable three years after 

publication (in May 2020). However, on April 23, 2020, to allow EEA national authorities, notified bodies, 

manufacturers and other actors to focus fully on urgent priorities related to the COVID-19

 pandemic, the European 

Council and Parliament adopted Regulation 2020/561, postponing the date

 of application of the EU MDR by one 

year (to May 2021).

 The EU MDR significantly modifies and intensifies the regulatory

 compliance requirements 

for the medical device industry as a whole.

 Once applicable, the EU MDR will among other things: 

•

Strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance

 once they are 

available; 

•

Establish explicit provisions on manufacturers’

 responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, 

performance and safety of devices placed on the market; 

•

Improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain

 to the end-user or patient 

through a unique identification number; 

•

Set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and

 the public with 

comprehensive information on products available in the EU;

•

Strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as

 implants, which may have to 

undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market; and 

•

Identify importers and distributors and medical device products through

 registration in a database 

(EudaMed not due until 2022 and after).

In particular, the EU MDR imposes stricter requirements for the confirmation that a product meets the regulatory 

requirements, including regarding a product’s clinical evaluation and a company’s quality systems, and for the 

distribution, marketing and sale of medical devices, including post-market surveillance.

 Medical devices that have 

been assessed and/or certified under the EU Medical Device Directive may

 continue to be placed on the market 

until 2024 (or until the expiry of their certificates, if applicable and earlier);

 however, requirements regarding the 

distribution, marketing and sale including quality systems and post-market surveillance

 have to be observed by 

manufacturers, importers and distributors as of the application date. 

The modifications created by the EU MDR may have an impact on the

 way we design and manufacture products 

and the way we conduct our business in the European Economic Area. 

If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care

 fraud or other laws and regulations, we 

could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations,

 which could materially 

adversely affect our business.

Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar

 foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral 

and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations.

 Some of these laws, referred to as “false 

claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent

 claims for reimbursement to 

federal, state and other health care payers and programs.

 Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit 

soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral

 of a patient or ordering, 

purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services

 that are 

paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs.

 Certain additional state and federal laws, such 

as the federal Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” prohibit physicians and other 

health professionals from referring a patient to an entity with which the physician

 (or family member) has a   
33 

financial relationship, for the furnishing of certain designated health services

 (for example, durable medical 

equipment and medical supplies), unless an exception applies. 

The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to heightened

 enforcement activity over the past few 

years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who

 serve as whistleblowers by filing 

complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states)

 under applicable false claims laws, 

and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries.

 Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be 

severe, and could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs,

 including the loss of licenses and the 

ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could

 have a material adverse effect on our 

business.

 Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial,

 regulatory or judicial authority in 

a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial

 defense and settlement 

expenses.

 Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private

 relators could result in reputational 

harm and the incurring of substantial costs.

 Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these

 state 

laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal False Claims

 Act penalties, as well as other fraud 

and abuse laws.

With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns

 about 

financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians,

 dentists and other health care providers, 

on the other.

 As a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices

 as necessary to facilitate 

compliance. 

In the EU, the Directive No. 2019/1937 of 23 October 2019 

on the protection of persons who report breaches of 

Union law

 which organizes the legal protection of whistleblowers must be implemented by EU

 member states by 

December 17, 2021. This Directive covers whistleblowers reporting breaches

 of certain EU laws, in particular as 

regards public health, the above-mentioned Directive No. 2001/83, Regulation

 No. 726/2004 or, as regards data 

protection, the GDPR. The Directive protects a wide range of people and

 includes former employees.

 All private 

companies with 50 or more employees are required to create effective internal reporting

 channels. 

We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign 

operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery

 Act, German anti-corruption laws 

and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal

 books and records, which have been 

the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years.

 Our businesses are generally subject to 

numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial

 results, including, without limitation, 

securities, antitrust, consumer protection, and marketing laws and regulations. 

In the EU, both active and passive bribery are criminalized. The EU Council

 Framework Decision 2003/568/JHA 

of 22 July 2003

 on combating corruption in the private sector 

establishes more detailed rules on the liability of 

legal persons and deterrent sanctions. However, the liability of legal persons is regulated at a national

 level. 

Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and other

 laws and regulations, could result in 

significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of

 licenses and the ability to participate in 

federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse

 effect on our business.

 We may 

determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees

 or enter into other arrangements to 

resolve such matters.

 Intentional or unintentional failure to comply with consent decrees could

 materially adversely 

affect our business. 

While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and

 abuse and other laws and 

regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls

 in place to ensure substantial 

compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our 

services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or

 interpretation of laws, could have a 

material adverse effect on our business. 
34 

If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality

 of sensitive personal information or 

standards in electronic health records or transmissions, we could

 be required to make significant changes to our 

products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities.

Our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management

 products, and our specialty home medical 

supply business, include electronic information technology systems that

 store and process personal health, clinical, 

financial and other sensitive information of individuals.

 These information technology systems may be vulnerable 

to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which

 could require us to expend 

significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security

 concerns, and could involve claims 

against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies.

We are directly or indirectly subject to numerous and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations 

that protect the privacy and security of personal information, such as the

 HIPAA, the Controlling the Assault of 

Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act, the Telephone Protection and Electronic Protection Act of 1991, 

Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the CCPA, and the CPRA that becomes effective on January 1, 

2023.

 Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection are continually

 evolving and subject to 

potentially differing interpretations. These requirements may not be harmonized,

 may be interpreted and applied in 

a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another or may conflict

 with other rules or our practices.

 Our 

businesses’ failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us

 to breach of contract claims, 

substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation

 and harm to our reputation.

Also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability

 of our customers to obtain, use or 

disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant

 additional costs to re-design our products to 

reflect these legal requirements, which could have a material adverse

 effect on our operations. 

In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union

 have adopted the GDPR, which 

increases privacy rights for individuals in Europe, or “Data Subjects”,

 including individuals who are our customers, 

suppliers and employees.

 The GDPR extended the scope of responsibilities for data controllers

 and data processors 

and generally imposes increased requirements and potential penalties

 on companies, such as us, that offer goods or 

services to Data Subjects or monitor their behavior (including by

 companies based outside of Europe).

Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20

 million, or 4% of global company revenues.

Data Subjects also have the right to seek compensation for damages.

 EU member states may individually impose 

additional requirements and penalties regarding certain matters,

 such as employee personal data.

In the United States, the CCPA, which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents, became 

effective January 1, 2020.

 The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections 

regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information

 of California residents.

 Compliance 

with the new obligations imposed by the CCPA depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply 

them, and because the CCPA is relatively new,

 and its implementing regulations were released in August of

 2020, 

there remains some uncertainty about how the CCPA will be interpreted by the courts and enforced by the 

regulators. If we fail to comply with the CCPA or if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the CCPA, 

we may be subject to certain fines or other penalties and litigation,

 any of which may negatively impact our 

reputation, require us to expend significant resources, and harm our business.

 Furthermore, California voters 

approved the CPRA on November 3, 2020, which will amend and

 expand the CCPA, including by providing 

consumers with additional rights with respect to their personal information,

 and creating a new state agency to 

enforce CCPA and CPRA.

 The CPRA will come into effect on January 1, 2023, applying to information collected 

by businesses on or after January 1, 2022. 

Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly

 considered the adoption of similarly expansive 

personal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance.

 While we believe we have 

substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with

 the GDPR, CCPA and CPRA requirements, 

our compliance with these measures is likely to impose additional costs

 on us, and we cannot predict whether the 

interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response

 to new requirements or interpretations of 

the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and 

manage patient medical or dental records.

 These customers and we are subject to laws, regulations and

 industry   
35 

standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection of 

the privacy and security of those records. Our products or services

 may be used as part of these customers’ 

comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their

 efforts to comply with applicable data 

privacy and security laws and contractual requirements.

 Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products 

or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who

 use our products or services to comply 

with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security requirements,

 may not only cause us significant 

reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers

 and/or governmental agencies and 

involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses

 and costs for remediation. 

Under the EU GDPR, health data belong to the category of “sensitive data”

 and benefit from specific protections. 

Processing of such data is generally prohibited, except for specific exceptions. 

Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of electronic

 health record (“EHR”) systems and other 

products linked to government supported incentive programs, where

 the EHR systems must be certified as having 

certain capabilities designated in evolving standards, such as those adopted

 by CMS and by the Office of the 

National Coordinator for Health Information

 Technology of HHS (“ONC”).

 In order to maintain certification of 

our EHR products, we must satisfy the changing governmental standards.

 If any of our EHR systems do not meet 

these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive

 federal incentive payments, we may 

be exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws,

 including the False Claims Act.

 While 

we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications

 and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and 

regulations and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls

 in place to ensure substantial compliance, 

we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or resulting changes in our, could 

have a material adverse effect on our business.

Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex

 reporting 

functionality.

 Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve

 increased costs, 

and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy

 applicable standards, could have a material 

adverse effect on our business. 

Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the 

ability of these connected systems to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged

 information becomes 

increasingly important.

 As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with 

an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device. 

Tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities.

We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, as well as 

foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives

 may be proposed that could materially 

adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not

 be materially 

adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. In addition, tax

 laws and regulations are extremely 

complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our

 historical tax positions are sound and 

consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent,

 there can be no assurance that our tax positions 

will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be

 successful in any such challenge. 

We face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the 

event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. 

Our business involves a risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary 

course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant

 in cases as a result of our distribution of 

products. Additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. As a result, we 

could be subject to the potential risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement or other claims relating 

to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. In addition,

 as our private-label business continues 

to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate 

product manufacturer, for product-related claims. Another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products 

is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply

 chain.

 In addition, some of the 

products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous

 materials. The improper handling of such materials or   
36 

accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us

 to liability or at least legal action that 

could harm our reputation.

GENERAL RISKS 

Security risks generally associated with our information systems and our

 technology products and services could 

materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be

 materially adversely affected if 

such products, services or systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted,

 damaged by unforeseen 

events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of

 time. 

We rely on information systems (IS) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store customer, 

product, supplier and employee data to, among other things: 

•

maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and

 distribution of thousands of 

inventory items from numerous distribution centers; 

•

receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; 

•

manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of

 customers; 

•

process payments to suppliers; and 

•

provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers’ electronic

 medical or dental 

records (including protected health information of their patients). 

Information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a

 cyberattack that bypasses our IS security 

systems (including third-party systems we rely on) causing an IS security breach

 may lead to a material disruption 

of our IS business systems (including third-party systems we rely on) and/or

 the loss of business information, as 

well as claims against us by affected parties and/or governmental agencies, and involve

 fines and penalties, costs 

for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. In addition,

 we develop products and provide 

services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack

 that bypasses the IS security systems of our 

products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security

 vulnerabilities in our products or services 

could also cause significant loss of business and reputational harm, and actual

 or perceived vulnerabilities may lead 

to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies.

 In particular, certain of our practice 

management products and services purchased by health care providers, such

 as physicians and dentists, are used to 

store and manage patient medical or dental records.

 These customers are subject to laws and regulations which 

require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our

 products may be used as part of these 

customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection

 with their efforts to comply with 

applicable privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities

 in our products or services, or the 

perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products

 to comply with applicable legal 

requirements, may not only cause reputational harm and loss of business,

 but may also lead to claims against us by 

our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve damages, fines and

 penalties, costs for remediation, and 

substantial defense and settlement expenses. In addition, a cyberattack

 on a third-party that we use to manage a 

portion of our information systems could result in the same effects.

 Additionally, legislative or regulatory action 

related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement

 new technology products and services.

Furthermore, procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new

 IS challenges, and enhancing 

protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional

 costs on us. 

Finally, our business may be interrupted by shortfalls of IS systems providers engaged by our customers, such

 as 

Internet-based services upon which our customers depend to access certain of

 our products.

Our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially

 adversely affect our business. 

Our global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business. The

 risks that our 

global operations are subject to include, among other things:

•

difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; 

•

difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products, establishing channels of distribution and

 contract 

manufacturing in foreign markets;   
37 

•

fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies (including, without limitation,

 in connection with 

Brexit); 

•

uncertainties relating to the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement of December 2020, including 

for example potential implementation problems such as border delays, as

 well as potential changes to 

the U.K. regulatory scheme to replace EU requirements;

•

longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables

 in foreign 

jurisdictions; 

•

repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the United States; 

•

regulatory requirements, including without limitation, anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining 

to the accuracy of our internal books and records; 

•

unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products and import/export

 tariffs, quotas, 

sanctions or penalties; 

•

limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual

 property; 

•

unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; 

•

changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; 

•

civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political

 or military coups; and 

•

public health emergencies, including COVID-19. 

Our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior

 management, and our revenues and profitability 

depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as

 customers, suppliers and manufacturers of 

the products that we distribute. 

Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of

 members of our existing senior 

management, particularly Stanley M. Bergman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of 

Mr. Bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have an employment agreement with Mr. 

Bergman. We do not currently have “key man” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Competition for 

senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting

 and retaining key personnel. Additionally, 

our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to

 maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales 

personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. If we

 fail to maintain our existing relationships with 

such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the

 future, our business may be materially 

adversely affected. 

Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely

 affect the availability and cost of credit to us. 

Our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with

 respect to indebtedness will depend on 

our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing

 economic conditions and financial, 

business and other factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the financial

 markets may materially adversely affect 

the availability and cost of credit to us. 

Item 1B.

 Unresolved Staff Comments

We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of 

our 2020 fiscal year.
38 

ITEM 2.

 Properties