ITEM 7A.

 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the U.S. 

dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets.

 We attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using 

foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits.

 These hedging activities provide 

only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks.

 Factors that could influence the effectiveness of 

our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging

 instruments and liquidity of the credit 

markets.

 All foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components

 of hedging programs and are 

entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated

 currency exposure.

 We do not enter into such 

contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying

 our investments, maintaining a 

strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. 

Foreign Currency Agreements 

The value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar

 and the value of certain underlying functional 

currencies of the Company, including its foreign subsidiaries, may affect our financial results.

 Fluctuations in 

exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses

 and retained 

earnings, all of which are expressed in U.S. dollars.

 Where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs 

using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting

 the impact of foreign currency exchange rate 

fluctuations on earnings.

 We purchase short-term (i.e., generally 18 months or less) foreign currency forward 

contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany

 loans due from our international 

subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign

 suppliers.

 We do not hedge the translation of 

foreign currency profits into U.S. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting

 exposure, not an economic 

exposure.

 A hypothetical 5% change in the average value of the U.S. dollar

 in 2020 compared to foreign currencies 

would have changed our 2020 reported Net income attributable to Henry

 Schein, Inc. by approximately $1.3 

million. 

As of December 26, 2020, we had forward foreign currency exchange

 agreements, which expire through November 

16, 2023, which include a mark-to-market loss of $9.9 million as determined

 by quoted market prices. Included in 

the forward foreign currency exchange agreements, Henry Schein, Inc.

 had EUR/USD forward contracts notionally 

totaling an amount of approximately €200 million, with a reported fair value

 of these contracts as a net liability of 

$9.6 million.

 A 5% increase in the value of the Euro to the USD from December 26,

 2020, with all other variables 

held constant, would have had an unfavorable effect on the fair value of these forward contracts

 by decreasing the 

value of these instruments by $11.9 million. 

Total

 Return Swaps 

On March 20, 2020, we entered into a total return swap for the purpose

 of economically hedging our unfunded non-

qualified supplemental retirement plan (“SERP”) and our deferred compensation

 plan (“DCP”).

 This swap will 

offset changes in our SERP and DCP liabilities.

 At the inception, the notional value of the investments in these 

plans was $43.4 million.

 At December 26, 2020, the notional value of the investments

 in these plans was $67.6 

million.

 At December 26, 2020 the financing rate for this swap was

 based on LIBOR of 0.15% plus 0.38%, for a 

combined rate of 0.53%.

 From March 20, 2020, the effective date of the swap, to December 26, 2020, we have 

recorded a gain, within the selling, general and administrative line item

 in our consolidated statement of income, of 

approximately $21.2 million, net of transaction costs, related to this undesignated

 swap for the year ended 

December 26, 2020.

 This gain was offset by the change in fair value adjustment in deferred compensation, 

resulting in a neutral impact to our results of operations.

 This swap is expected to be renewed on an annual basis.

Short-Term Investments 

We limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by 

monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are

 the counterparties to such financial 

instruments.

 As a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing 

numerous investment grade counterparties. 
68 

Variable

 Interest Rate Debt 

As of December 26, 2020, we had variable interest rate exposure for certain

 of our revolving credit facilities and 

our U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization. 

Our revolving credit facility which we entered into on April 18, 2017

 and expires on April 18, 2022, has an interest 

rate that is based on the U.S. Dollar LIBOR plus a spread based on our

 leverage ratio at the end of each financial 

reporting quarter.

 As of December 26, 2020, there was $0.0 million outstanding under

 this revolving credit 

facility.

 During the year ended December 26, 2020, the average outstanding

 balance under this revolving credit 

facility was approximately $21.4 million.

 Based upon our average outstanding balance for this revolving

 credit 

facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by 

less than $0.1 million. 

Our U.S trade accounts receivable securitization, which we entered into

 on April 17, 2013 and was scheduled to 

expire on April 29, 2022, has an interest rate that is based upon the asset-backed

 commercial paper rate.

 On June 

22, 2020, the expiration date for this facility was extended to June 12, 2023.

 As of December 26, 2020, the 

commercial paper rate was 0.22% plus 0.95%, for a combined rate of

 1.17%. At December 26, 2020 the 

outstanding balance was $0.0 million under this securitization facility.

 During the year ended December 26, 2020, 

the average outstanding balance under this securitization facility was approximately

 $92.3 million.

 Based upon our 

average outstanding balance for this securitization facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our 

interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.2 million. 
69 

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data