PART I

Item 1. Business

We incorporated in California in 1985 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1991. We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in September. Our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal fiscal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. The financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal years ended September 26, 2021, September 27, 2020 and September 29, 2019 included 52 weeks. 

Overview

We are a global leader in the development and commercialization of foundational technologies for the wireless industry. Our technologies and products are used in mobile devices and other wireless products, and are sold across industries and applications beyond mobile handsets, including automotive and the internet of things (IoT) (which includes the industries and applications of consumer, industrial and edge networking), among others. Our inventions have helped power the growth in smartphones, which have connected billions of people. We are a leader in 3G (third generation), 4G (fourth generation) and 5G (fifth generation) wireless technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, including our Snapdragon® family of highly-integrated, system-based solutions, and licensing of our intellectual property, including patents and other rights.

The foundational technologies we invent help power the modern mobile experience, impacting how the world connects, computes and communicates. We share these inventions broadly through our licensing program, enabling wide ecosystem access to technologies at the core of mobile innovation, and through the sale of our wireless integrated circuit platforms (also known as integrated circuit products, chips or chipsets) and other products. We collaborate across the ecosystem, including manufacturers, operators, developers, system integrators, cloud providers, tool vendors, service providers, governments and industry standards organizations, to enable a global environment to drive continued progress and growth.

We have a long history of driving innovation. We have played and continue to play a leading role in developing system level inventions that serve as the foundation for 3G, 4G and 5G wireless technologies. This includes technologies such as the CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) and OFDMA (Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access) families of technologies, with the latter encompassing LTE (Long Term Evolution) and 5G NR (New Radio), which are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit voice or data over radio waves using a public or private cellular wireless network.

 We own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets, applicable to products that implement any version of CDMA and/or OFDMA technologies. Companies in the mobile industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell devices or infrastructure equipment that use CDMA-based and/or OFDMA-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. We also develop and commercialize numerous other key technologies used in mobile and other wireless devices, and we own substantial intellectual property related to these technologies. Some of these inventions are contributed to and commercialized as industry standards, such as for certain video and audio codecs, Wi-Fi, GPS (Global Positioning System) and Bluetooth®. We have also developed other 

7

technologies that are used by wireless devices that are not related to industry standards, such as operating systems, user interfaces, graphics and camera processing functionality, RF (radio frequency), RFFE (radio frequency front-end) and antenna designs, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning techniques and application processor architectures. Our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system (including wireless devices and network infrastructure equipment), not just the portion of such patented technologies incorporated into chipsets.

We are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments. We conduct business primarily through our QCT (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) semiconductor business and our QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) licensing business. QCT develops and supplies integrated circuits and system software based on 3G/4G/5G and other technologies, including RFFE, for use in mobile devices, automotive systems for telematics, connectivity and digital cockpit (also known as infotainment) and IoT including wireless networks, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices and industrial devices. QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. Our QSI (Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments. We also have nonreportable segments, including QGOV (Qualcomm Government Technologies) and our cloud AI inference processing initiative and other technology and service initiatives.

Industry Trends

As the largest technology platform in the world, mobile has transformed the way we connect, compute and communicate. Advanced connectivity and high-performance, low-power computing technologies from mobile are also impacting industries beyond wireless, empowering new services, new business models and new ways to engage and interact with customers. Our breakthrough inventions, along with our flexible and transparent licensing program, have been integral to the growth and evolution of the mobile industry.

Advancing Connectivity. 3G technology introduced the world to the potential of the mobile internet, and the ability to access the internet virtually anytime and anywhere. 4G brought mobile broadband speeds that helped fuel the smartphone era, forever changing the way we work, live and connect with others. 4G has become the foundational technology to many of the applications and services used today, including e-commerce, video streaming, video calling, social media and gaming. 

Building on foundational innovations developed for 3G and 4G, the mobile industry is quickly moving to 5G technology. Beginning with the Release 15 specification issued by 3GPP (3rd Generation Partnership Project), an organization that develops technical specifications, 5G is designed to support multi-gigabit data rates, low latency and greater capacity than previous generations of mobile technology to enable enhanced mobile broadband experiences, including ultra-high definition (4K) video streaming and sharing, near-instantaneous access to cloud services, immersive cloud gaming and extended reality (XR), which includes augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR) and mixed reality (MR). 5G’s performance and capacity improvements are also enabling operators to offer new consumer and enterprise services while also reducing their operating costs.

Although 5G networks are being deployed at a faster pace as compared to the transition from 3G to 4G technologies, as with previous generations of mobile networks, it will take time. Since the first commercial 5G networks were launched in April of 2019, 180 operators in more than 70 countries have commercially launched 5G, with more than 280 additional operators investing to deploy the technology as of September 30, 2021 (GSA, October 2021). Most 5G devices include multimode support for 3G, 4G and Wi-Fi technologies, enabling service continuity where 5G has yet to be deployed. They also allow mobile operators to utilize existing 3G and/or 4G network infrastructure, enabling them to roll out 5G services over time, while also helping to maximize previous generation equipment investments. As of September 30, 2021, there were approximately 7.0 billion 3G/4G/5G connections globally, representing 85% of total mobile connections (GSMA Intelligence, November 2021). By 2025, global 3G/4G/5G connections are projected to reach 8.4 billion, with approximately 86% of these connections in emerging regions and China (GSMA Intelligence, November 2021).

Consumer Demand in Smartphones. From October 2020 through September 2021, approximately 1.4 billion smartphones are estimated to have shipped globally, representing a year-over-year increase of approximately 8%, primarily driven by a recovery from the impacts of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, which negatively impacted consumer demand for smartphones (IDC, Mobile Phone Tracker, 2021Q2). Smartphone shipments in calendar 2022 are expected to increase by approximately 3% year-over-year (IDC, Mobile Phone Tracker, 2021Q2), reflecting modest growth in emerging regions. We estimate that 5G smartphone shipments will be between 500 and 550 million in calendar 2021, more than doubling compared to the prior year. Looking beyond 2022, we expect modest smartphone growth in emerging regions to continue along with relatively flat demand in developed regions.

Consumer demand for new experiences, combined with the needs of mobile operators and device manufacturers to provide differentiated features and services, is driving continued innovation within the smartphone across connectivity, processing, AI, multimedia, imaging, audio and more. As a result, the smartphone continues to be the go-to device for social networking, music and video streaming, photography and video capture, e-commerce, gaming, email, web browsing and more. 5G enables these experiences to be more immersive, intuitive and interactive. 

Transforming Other Industries: Automotive. The automotive industry continues to adopt advanced connectivity and compute technologies from mobile. According to analyst data, more than 70% of new vehicles sold in 2027 are projected to 

8

have embedded cellular connectivity, as compared to 55% in 2020 (Strategy Analytics, October 2021), which includes growth in 5G connectivity. 

Digitalization of the automotive cockpit continues to transform the in-vehicle experience, enabling greater personalization of content and settings for both drivers and passengers as automakers respond to growing interest from consumers to bring their digital lifestyles into the vehicle. Car-to-cloud platform solutions are helping automakers improve cost efficiencies, create new service opportunities throughout the lifecycle of a vehicle with over-the-air (OTA) update capabilities and receive valuable vehicle and usage analytics. High-performance, low-power computing technologies from mobile are being used to improve advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) features and will continue progression towards supporting higher levels of automation and safety.

Transforming Other Industries: IoT. Demand for connected devices beyond smartphones continues to grow at a rapid pace across consumer, edge networking and industrial applications, in part due to the expanded use cases enabled by 5G technologies. The installed base of IoT devices, which includes everything from wearables to industrial handhelds to gateways, is projected to more than double between 2021 and 2025 to over 27 billion (IoT Analytics, October 2021). The growth in IoT devices is a catalyst in driving demand in edge networking platforms.

Trends such as remote working, distance learning and telehealth have also helped accelerate the adoption of fast, reliable wireless technologies and driven the demand for connected devices and networking equipment. We expect many of these trends to continue well into the future. According to survey data, 79% of executives plan to allow employees to continue to work remotely at least part time (WeWork/Workplace Intelligence, April 2021), and over 70% of employees want flexible remote work options to remain in place (Microsoft, March 2021). In the United States alone, the virtual care market is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 40% through 2025 (Frost & Sullivan, March 2021), signaling projected demand for remote connectivity.

Consumer. Consumer IoT demand is being fueled by the adoption of the latest mobile technologies in consumer electronics products, including personal computing (e.g., tablets and personal computers), connected audio (e.g., wireless earbuds, speakers and soundbars), wearables (e.g., smart watches and XR) and others (e.g., camera and video collaboration, exercise equipment and home appliances). Connectivity brought to these devices enables new services, applications and experiences. 

Edge Networking. Growth in demand for connected devices, along with advances in wireless technology, are driving increased demand for edge networking products (including mobile broadband and wireless access points). 5G brings a broadband connection to the home via wireless technologies that allows for the delivery of high-speed, low-latency connections, enabling operators to replace traditional “last-mile” wired broadband connections. Advances in Wi-Fi alongside 5G technologies are driving consumer and enterprise demand for the latest Wi-Fi 6 access point technologies that leverage increased network speed, capacity and efficiency to support the increased number of connected devices at home and at work. 

Industrial. The digital transformation happening across industries, which is being driven by the adoption of mobile technologies, is fueling the growth of and new use cases for industrial IoT. Central to this transformation is the combination of connectivity, computing, on-device AI and big data that brings real time data and insights that are helping companies in industries such as retail, transportation, logistics and asset tracking and utilities gain new knowledge and insights about their products and services, manufacturing processes and more, which will help drive efficiencies and transform the way companies operate.

Wireless Technologies Overview

The worldwide demand in the use of wireless devices and for data services and applications requires continuous innovation to improve the user experiences, support new services, increase network capacity, make use of different frequency bands and allow for dense network deployments. To meet these requirements, different wireless communications technologies continue to evolve. We have a long history of investing heavily in research and development and have developed foundational technologies that help drive the continued evolution of the wireless industry, including CDMA and OFDMA. As a result, we have developed and acquired (and continue to develop and acquire) significant related intellectual property. This intellectual property has been incorporated into the most widely accepted and deployed cellular wireless communications technology standards, and we have licensed it to several hundred licensees, including all the leading handset manufacturers. 

Cellular Wireless Technologies. Relevant cellular wireless technologies can be grouped into the following categories.

CDMA-based. CDMA-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency and time by allocating different orthogonal codes to individual users. Most of the CDMA-based technologies are classified as 3G technology.

A number of variants of CDMA-based technologies have been deployed around the world, in particular CDMA2000, EV-DO (Evolution Data Optimized), WCDMA (Wideband CDMA) and TD-SCDMA (Time Division-Synchronous CDMA, which was deployed exclusively in China). CDMA-based technologies provide vastly improved capacity for voice and low-rate data services as compared to analog technologies and significant improvements over earlier technologies (e.g., 2G technology). 

9

As of September 30, 2021, there were approximately 1.7 billion CDMA-based connections worldwide, representing approximately 21% of total cellular connections, down from 23% as of September 30, 2020 as consumers migrate to OFDMA-based technologies (GSMA Intelligence, November 2021).

OFDMA-based. OFDMA-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency band and time by allocating different subcarriers to individual users. Most of the OFDMA-based technologies deployed prior to 2020 are classified as 4G technology. 5G heavily leverages OFDMA-based technologies. 3GPP developed the 4G system through the specification of the radio component (LTE) and the core network component (Enhanced Packet Core or EPC). Similarly, 3GPP has developed the 5G system through the specification of the radio component (NR) and the core network component (5G Core or 5GC). Unlike 4G that has fixed Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) parameterization, 5G has multiple OFDM parameterizations to address a wide range of spectrum and use cases. We continue to play a significant role in the further development of LTE-based technologies, such as Narrowband IoT (NB-IoT), enhanced Machine Type Communications (eMTC) and Enhanced TV broadcast (EnTV).

LTE is incorporated in 3GPP specifications beginning with Release 8 and uses OFDMA in the downlink and single carrier FDMA (Frequency Division Multiple Access) in the uplink. LTE has two modes, FDD (Frequency Division Duplex) and TDD (Time Division Duplex) to support paired and unpaired spectrum, respectively, and continues to evolve as 3GPP defines new specifications. The principal benefit of LTE is its ability to leverage a wide range of spectrum (bandwidths of up to 20 MHz or more through aggregation). LTE is designed to seamlessly interwork with 3G technologies through multimode devices. 

LTE Advanced brings many more enhancements, including carrier aggregation, advanced multi-antenna techniques and optimizations for small cells. Apart from improving the performance of existing networks, there are also enhancements under the umbrella of LTE Advanced Pro, including LTE Direct for proximity-based device-to-device discovery, improved LTE broadcast, optimizations of narrowband communications designed for IoT (known as eMTC and NB-IoT) and the ability to use LTE Advanced in unlicensed spectrum (LTE Unlicensed), as well as in shared spectrum bands in various regions, such as the Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) in the United States. There are multiple options for deploying LTE Unlicensed for different deployment scenarios.

•LAA (Licensed Assisted Access), introduced as part of 3GPP Release 13, aggregates unlicensed and licensed spectrum in the downlink and is being deployed globally by mobile operators. LAA is a key technology for many operators with limited licensed spectrum to deliver Gigabit LTE speeds. 

•eLAA (enhanced LAA), introduced as part of 3GPP Release 14, is an evolution of LAA. eLAA enables aggregation of unlicensed and licensed spectrum in the uplink.

Beginning with Release 14, 3GPP specifications provide enhancements specifically for C-V2X (cellular vehicle-to-everything), which includes both direct communication (vehicle-to-vehicle, vehicle-to-infrastructure and vehicle-to-pedestrian) in dedicated spectrum that is independent of a cellular network and cellular communications with networks in traditional mobile broadband licensed spectrum.

As of September 30, 2021, there were approximately 4.7 billion global LTE connections worldwide, representing approximately 58% of total cellular connections, up from 56% as of September 30, 2020 (GSMA Intelligence, November 2021).

The wireless industry is actively developing and commercializing 5G technologies. Commercial 5G network deployments and device launches began in calendar 2019, and we expect that additional deployments and device launches will occur as more operators and geographic regions launch 5G services. Many of our inventions at the core of 3G and 4G serve as foundational technologies for 5G. 5G is designed to transform the role of wireless technologies and already incorporates advancements on 3G/4G features available today, including device-to-device capabilities and the use of all different types of spectrum (including licensed, unlicensed and shared spectrum). We continue to play a significant role in driving advancements in 5G, including contributing to 3GPP standardization activities that are defining the continued evolution of 5G NR and 5GC standards. 

The first global set of 5G standards is incorporated in 3GPP specifications starting from Release 15, which was initially completed in March 2018. Release 15 enables different architecture deployment choices of 5G networks while sharing the same radio access technology. This is due to 5G’s ability to target diverse services with very different technical requirements (from enhanced mobile broadband to massive IoT to mission critical services), its utilization of diverse types of spectrum (from the low bands to millimeter wave (mmWave) bands) and its ability to support diverse types of deployment scenarios. Predominant technological components of 5G include the ability to address ultra-reliable, low-latency communication, new channel coding schemes to efficiently support large data blocks, MIMO (multiple input, multiple output) to increase coverage and network capacity and mobile mmWave to increase the data rate offered to users. 5G uses OFDMA in the downlink and either OFDMA or single carrier FDMA in the uplink depending on the use case. Like 3G and 4G, 5G supports carrier aggregation across spectrum bands, across FDD and TDD and across licensed and unlicensed spectrum (starting with Release 16), and 5G also supports dual connectivity across 4G and 5G. A key benefit of 5G is its ability to take advantage of very wide channel bandwidth (i.e., up to 100 MHz per component carrier for sub-6 and up to 400MHz per component carrier for mmWave), compared to LTE’s 20 MHz maximum bandwidth, which requires carrier aggregation to combine spectrum 

10

beyond 20 MHz. As with previous cellular generations, 5G is designed to support seamless compatibility with 3G/4G technologies through multimode devices. 

5G is the first generation of cellular wireless communication systems to use transmissions at mmWave bands, which creates certain challenges including coverage limitations and blockages, heightened costs and power constraints. In order to address these challenges, we have been a leader in designing RFFE modules and RF filter products which, when paired with our modems, provide a comprehensive 5G modem-to-antenna solution. Our RFFE modules and RF filter products use adaptive beamforming (which spatially concentrates radio energy in a given beam direction to extend the range) and enable the efficient tracking and switching of beams in accordance with varying radio conditions. mmWave deployments rely on small cells (low-powered cellular base stations typically used for increased system capacity and which may have already incorporated Gigabit LTE) to allow for faster, more reliable mobile service with transmissions at mmWave bands. 3GPP has so far defined six mmWave bands. Furthermore, mmWave beam management enhancements were defined in Release 16 with more anticipated in Release 17 (expected to be initially completed in 2022). 

Release 16 not only introduced enhancements to 5G mobile broadband experiences (e.g., more capacity, improved coverage, mobility and better device power efficiency), but also expanded 5G technologies into new use cases and industries. For example, to better enable new industrial IoT use cases, such as factory automation, Release 16 added support for private 5G networks, efficient wireless Ethernet over 5G, 5G Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN) and further enhanced ultra-reliable, low latency communications. Release 16 also supports different spectrum types by expanding 5G into unlicensed spectrum with 5G NR Unlicensed (NR-U). Release 16 NR-U focused on sub-7GHz operation (commonly referred to as sub-6, sub-7 or Frequency Range 1), specifically 5GHz and 6GHz bands, and Release 17 will expand NR-U to support higher bands such as 60GHz. High-precision positioning was another focus area in Release 16. Accurate device positioning is a key enabler for many applications, such as public safety and indoor navigation. Release 16 added new capabilities for 5G positioning, supporting techniques such as multi-cell roundtrip time, angle of arrival/departure and time difference of arrival. Release 16 addressed the growing needs of low-power, wide-area IoT use cases by allowing in-band deployments of NB-IoT and eMTC in 5G carriers, as well as supporting these low-complexity IoT technologies with the new 5G core network. Additionally, to make mmWave densification more cost efficient, Release 16 introduced integrated access and backhaul that allows a base station to provide both wireless access for devices and wireless backhaul connectivity, thereby eliminating the need for a wired backhaul.

Other (Non-Cellular) Wireless Technologies. There are other, non-cellular wireless technologies that have also been broadly adopted.

Wireless Local Area Networks. Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN), such as Wi-Fi, link two or more nearby devices wirelessly and usually provide connectivity through an access point. We are actively involved in innovative programs developed in the context of the Wi-Fi Alliance, a non-profit organization that drives global Wi-Fi adoption and evolution. Wi-Fi systems are based primarily on standards developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.11 Working Group. Amendments of the 802.11 standard are commonly referred to by the names made popular by the Wi-Fi Alliance (for example, 802.11ax is known as Wi-Fi 6). Wi-Fi 6 adds advanced features such as downlink and uplink OFDMA and uplink multiple-user MIMO. This technology primarily targets connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops and other consumer electronic devices using the 2.4GHz and 5GHz spectrum bands. 1200MHz of new spectrum has been added in the 6GHz band in the United States, Brazil, Canada, South Korea, Saudi Arabia and other countries, which triples the available spectrum for unlicensed technologies, such as Wi-Fi, which can be used by new Wi-Fi 6E devices. Europe has added 480 MHz of spectrum in the 6GHz band for unlicensed operation. For 60GHz mmWave technology, 802.11ay adds wider channel bandwidth and the use of MIMO to the existing 802.11ad (also known as Gigabit Wi-Fi or WiGig) standard. 802.11ah targets sub-1 GHz spectrum. We played a leading role in the development of 802.11ac, 802.11ax, 802.11ay, 802.11ah and 802.11ad, and continue to play a leading role in the evolution of the 802.11 family of standards with the development of the new 802.11be standard, which is expected to be known as Wi-Fi 7. The 802.11be specification is expected to standardize technologies such as Multi-Link Operation, 4K QAM (quadrature amplitude modulation), wider channel bandwidth modes (up to 320 MHz) and low latency enhancements.

Bluetooth. Bluetooth is a wireless personal area network that provides wireless connectivity between devices over short distances ranging from a few centimeters to approximately one hundred meters. Bluetooth technology provides wireless connectivity to a wide range of fixed or mobile consumer electronic devices. Bluetooth functionalities are standardized by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group in various versions of the specification (from 1.0 to 5.3), which include different functionalities, such as enhanced data rate, low energy and mesh technologies. We are a leading contributor to Bluetooth technologies in the areas of mobile devices and audio and mesh technologies.

Location Positioning Technologies. Location positioning technologies continue to evolve in order to deliver an enhanced commercial location experience and comply with new mandates on location for E911 (enhanced 911) calls. We are a key developer of the Assisted-GPS (A-GPS), Assisted Global Navigation Satellite System (A-GNSS) and WLAN positioning technologies used in most cellular handsets today. For uses requiring the best reliability and accuracy for E911 services and navigational based services, A-GPS, A-GNSS and WLAN provide leading-edge solutions. We continue to invest in the standardization and productization of many 4G- and 5G-based positioning capabilities, including in 3GPP Release 16. 

The industry continues to evolve to support additional inputs for improving the location experience. Our products and intellectual property now support multiple constellations for A-GNSS, including: GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, NavIC and BeiDou; Wi-Fi-based and Bluetooth-based positioning for WLAN, including Wi-Fi RSSI (received signal strength 

11

indication) and Wi-Fi RTT (round-trip time) signals for indoor location; observed time difference of arrival positioning for LTE access (e.g., in rural and indoor areas); and third-party inertial sensors. The combination of these different location solutions is used to ensure accurate location availability in all areas. 

Other Significant Technologies used in Cellular and Certain Consumer Electronic Devices and Networks. We have played and continue to play a leading role in developing and/or have acquired many of the other technologies used across the wireless system, including in cellular handsets and certain other consumer electronic devices and networks:

•on-device AI features, including machine learning platforms and the application of AI and machine learning techniques to edge computing and other use cases;

•graphics and display processing functionality; 

•video coding based on the HEVC (High Efficiency Video Coding) standard, which is being deployed to support 4K video and immersive media content, the next generation VVC (Versatile Video Coding) and the MPEG-5 EVC (Essential Video Coding) standard, which is designed to power the creation and consumption of rich digital media experiences; 

•audio coding, including EVS (enhanced voice services) and MPEG-H 3D Audio; 

•the latest version of 3GPP’s codec for multimedia use and for voice/speech use;

•camera functions;

•operating system and user interface features; 

•XR platform features such as 6DoF (six-degrees of freedom) head tracking and controller capabilities, 3D Reconstruction, 3D audio and video pass-through, and embedded cellular connectivity for new types of user experiences;

•security and content protection systems for enhanced device security without compromising the user experience and ultrasonic fingerprint readers for single touch authentication;

•volatile (LP-DDR4, 5) and non-volatile (eMMC) memory and related controllers; 

•fast charging features, enabling devices to charge quickly, safely and efficiently;

•Qualcomm® Smart Transmit™ technology, a modem-to-antenna technology that optimizes data speeds while complying with RF transmit power limits; 

•power management systems for improved battery life and device charging; and

•System on Chip (SoC) architecture with heterogeneous computing features, which uses different types of specialized engines (Graphics Processing Unit (GPU)) to enable high performance and low-power computing and other optimization techniques.

Acquisitions

We make strategic investments and acquisitions to: open new opportunities for our technologies, supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services); obtain development resources; grow our patent portfolio; or pursue new businesses as part of our strategic plan. Information regarding acquisitions is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9. Acquisitions” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12. Subsequent Events.”

Operating Segments

We have three reportable segments. We conduct business primarily through QCT and QTL, while QSI makes strategic investments. Additional information regarding our operating segments is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8. Segment Information.” 

QCT Segment. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on 3G/4G/5G and other technologies for use in wireless voice and data communications, networking, computing, multimedia and GPS products. QCT’s integrated circuit products are sold and its system software is licensed to manufacturers that use our products in a broad range of devices, from low-tier, entry-level devices primarily for emerging regions to premium-tier devices, including but not limited to mobile devices (primarily smartphones), tablets, laptops, XR headsets, data modules, gaming devices, voice and music devices, wearable devices, wireless access points and routers, broadband gateway equipment, data cards and infrastructure equipment, sensor hubs and other industrial equipment and automotive systems for telematics, connectivity and digital cockpit. Our 3G/4G/5G modem roadmap delivers the latest network technologies across multiple product tiers and devices. This roadmap is the result of extensive collaboration with manufacturers, operators, developers, systems integrators, cloud providers, tool vendors, service providers, governments and industry standards organizations, as well as our years of research into emerging network standards and the development of integrated circuits, that takes advantage of these new standards, while maintaining backward compatibility with existing standards. We have leveraged and expect to continue to leverage the foundational technologies initially developed and commercialized for use in mobile handset devices, such as our core baseband modem and processor technologies and our other wireless connectivity products in Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and precise positioning technologies, to extend into new product categories, industries and applications beyond mobile handsets, such as automotive and IoT (which includes the industries and applications of consumer, industrial and edge networking). 

The Snapdragon family of highly integrated, system-based solutions include the Snapdragon mobile, compute, sound and automotive platforms. Each platform consists of application processors and wireless connectivity capabilities, including our cellular modem that provides core baseband modem functionality for voice and data communications, non-cellular wireless 

12

connectivity (such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth) and global positioning functions. Our Snapdragon application processor functions include CPU, security, graphics, display, audio, video, camera and AI. Our CPUs are designed based on the ARM architecture and are designed to deliver high levels of compute performance with optimized power consumption. Our Qualcomm® Hexagon™ processors are designed to support a variety of signal processing applications, including AI, audio and sensor processing. Our Qualcomm® Adreno™ graphics processing units are designed to deliver high quality graphics performance for visually rich 3D gaming and user interfaces. In addition to the highly integrated core SoC, we also design and supply supporting components, including the RF transceiver, PM (power management), audio, codecs, speaker amps and additional wireless connectivity integrated circuits. These supporting components, in addition to our cellular modems and application processors comprising our core SoC, are also sold as individual components. The combination of the Snapdragon SoC, system software and supporting components provide an overall platform with optimized performance and efficiency, enabling manufacturers to design and deliver powerful, slim and power-efficient devices ready for integration with the complex cellular networks worldwide. 

Our portfolio of RF products includes Qualcomm® RFFE components that are designed to simplify the RF design for 5G front-end, LTE multimode and multiband mobile devices, including sub-6 GHz and mmWave devices, to reduce power consumption and to improve radio performance. We provide comprehensive RFFE product offerings with system level performance from the modem and transceiver to the antenna that include complex 4G/5G transmit and receive modules, power tracking, tuning systems, multimode-multiband power amplification, low noise amplifiers and mmWave antenna solutions, in addition to discrete filtering products, for devices and applications across the mobile handsets, automotive and IoT industries. We have also integrated our Snapdragon platform with our RFFE components to create our Snapdragon 5G modem-RF products, the world’s first commercial modem-to-antenna 5G solution designed to maximize data speeds and performance, support superior call connectivity and coverage and extend battery life.

Our wireless connectivity products also consist of integrated circuits and system software for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and frequency modulation (FM), as well as technologies that support location data and services, including GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, NavIC and BeiDou. Our wireless connectivity products provide additional connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops, XR headsets, voice and music devices, wearable devices, automotive telematics, digital cockpit, utility meters, logistic trackers and industrial sensors, in addition to other IoT devices and applications. QCT also offers standalone Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, fingerprint sensor, applications processor and Ethernet products utilized within these devices and systems. Our networking products include Wi-Fi, Ethernet and Powerline chips, network processors, wireless access points and routers, broadband gateway equipment and software. These products help enable home and business networks to support the growing number of connected devices, digital media and data services. 

Other than for certain of our RFFE modules and RF filter products, QCT utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Therefore, we primarily rely on third parties to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. Our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the package assembly and test manufacturing processes. The semiconductor package supports the electrical contacts that connect the integrated circuit to a circuit board. Die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. Under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third parties for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. The primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, RF and PM integrated circuits are Global Foundries, Samsung Electronics, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and United Microelectronics. The primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor Technology, Siliconware Precision Industries and STATSChipPAC. The majority of our foundry and semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are located in the Asia-Pacific region.

QCT primarily uses internal fabrication facilities to manufacture certain RFFE modules and RF filter products, and its manufacturing operations consist of front-end and back-end processes. The front-end processes primarily take place at manufacturing facilities located in Germany and Singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate wafers with the structure and circuitry required for the products to function (also known as wafer fabrication). The back-end processes include the assembly, packaging and test of RFFE modules and RF filter products and their preparation for distribution. The back-end manufacturing facilities are located in China and Singapore.

QCT’s sales are primarily made through a purchase order and order confirmation process for delivery of products. QCT generally allows customers to reschedule delivery dates within a defined time frame and to cancel orders prior to shipment with or without payment of a penalty, depending on when the order is canceled. The industry in which QCT operates is intensely competitive. QCT competes worldwide with a number of U.S. and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. As a result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes, device manufacturer concentrations, limited global supply capacity, vertical integration and the potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the industry to remain very competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors for our products include performance, level of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price, time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation, growth and scaling of distribution channels, desire by 

13

certain customers to use multiple suppliers and customer support. QCT also competes in both single-mode and multimode environments against alternative communications technologies. Additional competitive factors exist for QCT product offerings that have expanded into industries and applications beyond mobile handsets, including automotive and IoT. The automotive industry is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in a significant barrier to entry and may result in increased costs.

QCT’s current competitors include, but are not limited to, companies such as Broadcom, MediaTek, Nvidia, NXP Semiconductors, Qorvo, Samsung, Skyworks, Texas Instruments and UNISOC. QCT currently faces competition, which may intensify in the future, from products internally developed by our customers, including some of our largest customers, and from some early-stage companies. Our competitors devote significant amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to develop and market competitive products and, in some cases, to develop and adopt competitive digital communication or signal processing technologies, and those efforts may materially and adversely affect us. Although we have attained a significant position in the wireless industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us. These and other risks related to competition are more fully described in the Risk Factors entitled “Our industry is subject to intense competition in an environment of rapid technological change. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to such change and compete effectively; and such change and competition could result in decreased demand for our products and technologies or declining average selling prices for our products or those of our customers or licensees” and “Our business, particularly our semiconductor business, may suffer as a result of our customers vertically integrating (i.e., developing their own integrated circuit products).” 

QTL Segment. QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture, sale and/or use of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing CDMA2000, WCDMA, LTE and/or OFDMA-based 5G standards and their derivatives. We grant licenses or otherwise provide rights to use our cellular standard-essential patents (including 3G, 4G and 5G) for both single-mode and multimode devices on a worldwide basis. We also offer licenses to our cellular standard-essential patents together with other Qualcomm patents that may be useful to such licensed products for licensees that desire to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. While we offer license rights to patents that we do not have a duty or obligation to grant, those rights may be negotiated at our discretion. A significant portion of QTL’s licensing revenues is derived from licensees that have entered into license agreements that grant licenses under Qualcomm’s cellular standard-essential patents. Our licensees manufacture wireless cellular products such as mobile devices (including handsets), other consumer devices (e.g., tablets and laptops), plug-in end user data modem cards and embedded modules for incorporation into machine-to-machine devices and certain end user products (excluding handsets, tablets and laptops), connected vehicle units and connected vehicle modules used in automobiles, wireless access points, small cell wireless products, infrastructure equipment required to establish and operate a cellular network and equipment to test wireless networks and cellular devices. 

Since our founding in 1985, we have focused heavily on technology development and innovation. These efforts have resulted in a leading intellectual property portfolio related to foundational, system level technologies for the wireless industry. We have an extensive portfolio of United States and foreign patents, and we continue to pursue patent applications around the world. Our patents have broad coverage in many countries, including Brazil, China, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, the United States and countries in Europe. A substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to digital wireless communications technologies, including patents that are essential or may be important to the commercial implementation of CDMA2000, WCDMA (UMTS), LTE and/or OFDMA-based 5G products. Our patent portfolio is the most widely and extensively licensed in the industry, including more than 150 5G license agreements to date. Additionally, we have a substantial patent portfolio related to key technologies used in communications and other devices and/or related services, some of which were developed in industry standards development organizations. These include certain video codecs, audio codecs, Wi-Fi, memory interfaces, wireless power, GPS and positioning, broadcast and streaming protocols, and short-range communication functionalities, including NFC and Bluetooth. Our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system (including wireless devices and network infrastructure equipment), not just the portion of such patented technologies incorporated into chipsets. Over the years, a number of companies have challenged our patent position, but companies in the mobile communications industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell certain wireless products that use CDMA-based and/or OFDMA-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. 

We have licensed or otherwise provided rights to use our patents to hundreds of companies on industry-accepted terms. Our strategy to make our patented technologies broadly available has been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to enable a wide range of companies offering a broad array of wireless products and features while increasing the capabilities of and/or driving down average and low-end selling prices for handsets and other wireless devices. By licensing or otherwise providing rights to use our patents to a wide range of equipment manufacturers, encouraging innovative applications, supporting equipment manufacturers with integrated chipset and software products and focusing on improving the efficiency of the airlink for wireless operators, we have helped multimode device capabilities evolve, grow demand and reduce device pricing. 5G network deployments and commercial 3G/4G/5G multimode device sales began in 2019 and have continued. By licensing or otherwise providing rights to use our patents to a wide range of equipment manufacturers, we are supporting the global rollout and availability of 5G technology. We believe that 5G will continue to encourage innovative applications through enhanced mobile broadband services with lower latency and multi-gigabit user data speeds and bring more capacity and efficiency to wireless networks. 

14

Upon the initial deployment of OFDMA-based networks, the products implementing such technologies generally have been multimode and implement OFDMA-based and CDMA-based technologies. The licenses granted under our existing license agreements generally cover multimode CDMA/OFDMA (3G/4G/5G) devices, and our licensees are obligated to pay royalties under their license agreements for their sales of such devices. 

Standards bodies have been informed that we hold patents that might be essential for all 3G standards that are based on CDMA; patents and pending patent applications that are potentially essential for LTE standards, including FDD and TDD versions; and patents and pending patent applications that are potentially essential for 5G technologies. We have committed to such standards bodies that we will offer to license our essential patents for these standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. We have made similar commitments with respect to certain other technologies implemented in industry standards. 

QTL licensing revenues include royalties and, to a lesser extent, license fees. Licensees pay quarterly royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property and may also pay a fixed license fee in one or more installments. Sales-based royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensee’s) selling price of complete licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (including transportation, insurance, packing costs and other items). We broadly provide per unit royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets, laptops and smartwatches, and which provide for a maximum royalty amount payable per device. For certain non-handset product categories, including automotive, we charge a fixed royalty amount per unit. Revenues generated from royalties are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations.

The vast majority of QTL revenues have been generated through our licensees’ sales of CDMA-based (including, but not limited to WCDMA-based) and OFDMA-based products (including 3G, 3G/4G and 3G/4G/5G multimode devices), such as smartphones and other devices. We have invested and continue to invest in both the acquisition and development of OFDMA technology and intellectual property and have generated the industry leading patent portfolio applicable to LTE, LTE Advanced, LTE Advanced Pro and 5G-NR. Some of our inventions that serve as foundational technologies for 3G and 4G also serve as foundational technologies for 5G. We have invested and continue to invest in the development of 5G and continue to play a significant role in driving advancements of 5G. Nevertheless, we face competition in the development of intellectual property for future generations of digital wireless communications technologies and services. 

Separate and apart from licensing manufacturers of wireless devices and network equipment, we have entered into certain arrangements with competitors of our QCT segment. A principal purpose of these arrangements is to provide our QCT segment and the counterparties certain freedom of operation with respect to each party’s integrated circuits business. In every case, these agreements expressly reserve the right for QTL to seek royalties from the customers of such integrated circuit suppliers with respect to such suppliers’ customers’ sales of CDMA-based (including, but not limited to WCDMA-based) and OFDMA-based wireless devices into which such suppliers’ integrated circuits are incorporated.

Our license agreements also may provide us with rights to use certain of our licensees’ technology and intellectual property to manufacture, sell and/or use certain components (e.g., application-specific integrated circuits) and related software, cellular devices and/or infrastructure equipment. 

We have been in the past and are currently subject to certain legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing practices, including those described in this Annual Report under the heading “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies,” which may require us to change our patent licensing practices as described more fully herein in “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the heading “Changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, legal challenges or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.”

QSI Segment. QSI makes strategic investments primarily through our Qualcomm Ventures arm that are focused on expanding or opening new opportunities for our technologies as well as supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services). Many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies in a variety of industries and applications, including, but not limited to, 5G, AI, automotive, consumer, enterprise, cloud and IoT. Investments primarily include non-marketable equity securities and, to a lesser extent, marketable equity securities (the majority of which resulted from initial public offerings of certain non-marketable equity investments) and convertible debt instruments. In addition, QSI segment results include revenues and related costs associated with development contracts with one of our investees. As part of our strategic investment activities, we generally intend to pursue various exit strategies for each of our QSI investments in the foreseeable future.

Other Businesses. Nonreportable segments include our Qualcomm Government Technologies or QGOV business, our cloud AI inference processing initiative and other technology and service initiatives. QGOV provides development and other services and sells related products to U.S. government agencies and their contractors. 

Seasonality. Information regarding seasonality is provided in this Annual Report in “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the “Our Business and Operating Segments” section under the heading “Seasonality.”

15

Corporate Structure

We operate our businesses through our parent company, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and multiple direct and indirect subsidiaries. We have developed our corporate structure in order to address various legal, regulatory, tax, contractual compliance, operational and other matters. Substantially all of our products and services businesses, including QCT, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (QTI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of QUALCOMM Incorporated, and QTI’s subsidiaries. QTL is operated by QUALCOMM Incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Neither QTI nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by QUALCOMM Incorporated.

Revenue Concentrations and Significant Customers

A small number of customers/licensees historically have accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues. In fiscal 2021, revenues from Apple, Samsung and Xiaomi each comprised 10% or more of our consolidated revenues. Additional information regarding revenue concentrations is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8. Segment Information.”

Research and Development

The wireless communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and, with the use of 5G, the expansion into new industries or applications such as automotive and IoT, requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and technologies and to develop new products and technologies. We have significant engineering resources, including engineers with substantial expertise in modem technologies, radio-frequency integrated circuit (RFIC), RFFE, multimedia (camera, video, display, computer vision), advanced SoC, which includes specialized engines, such as CPU and GPU, to enable high performance and low-power computing and other optimization techniques, AI, packaging, and a broad range of other technologies. We expect to continue to invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the demand for our products and technologies and to utilize that research and development in industries and applications beyond mobile handsets (such as automotive and IoT), including continuing the development of new modem and multimedia technologies and other technologies (such as ADAS and XR), developing alternative technologies for certain specialized applications, participating in the formulation of new voice and data communication standards and technologies and assisting in deploying digital voice and data communications networks around the world. Our research and development team has a demonstrated track record of innovation in voice and data communication technologies and application processor technology, among others.

We continue to invest significant resources towards advancements in OFDMA-based technologies and products (including LTE and 5G). We also engage in acquisitions and other transactions, such as joint ventures, to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development resources or open or expand opportunities for our technologies and to support the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products and services) for voice and data communications and new industries and applications beyond mobile handsets. We make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets designed on leading-edge technology nodes that combine multiple technologies for use in consumer electronic devices (e.g., smartphones, tablets, laptops, voice and music devices, wearable devices, XR devices) and other products (e.g., access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment). In addition to 3G, 4G and 5G technologies, our chipsets support other wireless and wired connectivity technologies, including Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Ethernet, location positioning and Powerline communication. Our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies, including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the tools to connect these diverse technologies. We continue to support Android, Windows and other client software environments in our chipsets.

We develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product portfolio to further expand the opportunity for wireless communications and enhance the value of our products and services. These innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband data services ahead of their competition.

We have research and development centers in various locations throughout the world that support our global development activities and ongoing efforts to develop and/or advance 4G, 5G, RFFE and a broad range of other technologies. We continue to use our substantial engineering resources and expertise to develop new technologies, applications and services and make them available to licensees to help grow the communications industry and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities.

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and Human Capital

For decades, our innovations have helped transform industries, enhance people’s lives and address some of society’s biggest challenges. With the world becoming increasingly connected, we have a tremendous opportunity to shape a better future. We believe in the power of technology. As such, our corporate responsibility vision is to be a facilitator of innovation for a sustainable world, connected wirelessly.

We have integrated corporate responsibility throughout our business, from our daily operations to our executive leadership and our Board of Directors (Board). The Governance Committee of our Board provides oversight on corporate 

16

responsibility matters, including ESG policies, programs and initiatives, and the HR and Compensation Committee of our Board provides oversight on our workforce diversity and inclusion programs and initiatives. Our Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee, composed of executives and senior management, provides guidance on global corporate responsibility issues. Our Corporate Responsibility Governance Committee implements directives from the Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee, measures progress on achieving our goals, and reports to management on accomplishments and challenges.

ESG

Our sustained investment in R&D has helped revolutionize the way people connect; our approach to innovation is strategic and purposeful. We understand that the success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our world. We focus our efforts in four key areas where we believe we can have the biggest impact:  

•Purposeful Innovation. We invent breakthrough technologies by building on our legacy of technology leadership with 5G, which we believe will serve as the technological foundation for connected cars, industrial IoT, smart homes and cities, networking and mobility, among others. Our 5G technology advancements are helping transform industries, like telemedicine and remote education, and driving efficiencies with always-connected devices. We believe that 5G can also help manage and improve the sustainability trajectory of our planet in key areas such as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water use, reduction of pesticides and energy efficiency, while providing an inherently lower CO2 footprint than previous network deployments. Through our Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™ program (Wireless Reach), we work to broaden our impact by bringing advanced wireless technologies to underserved communities around the world. Further, through the Qualcomm Small Business Accelerator Program, we have provided technology and support to U.S.-based small businesses in various industries to help them transition to a mobile-first remote work environment.  

•Our People. We strive to make Qualcomm an inspiring and inclusive workplace to advance the development of leading-edge technologies. Our success is only possible with the hard work and dedication of our employees. We celebrate diversity among our workforce and recognize that our varied backgrounds, experiences and ideas are critical to innovation. We seek to foster inclusive teams and educate and train employees and leaders on the importance of driving diversity. We also engage our global workforce through giving and outreach efforts to support and enrich the communities where we live and work. 

•STEM Education. Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) is the foundation for everything we do. It supports the brainpower behind the breakthrough technologies and inventions we bring to life. As technology leaders and a company of inventors, we are committed to providing tomorrow’s workforce with the skills and knowledge to solve global challenges. Our initiatives are designed to promote and improve STEM education and to expand opportunities for underrepresented students.

•Responsible Business. We strive to integrate responsible and sustainable practices throughout our organization. We continually look for ways to conserve water, minimize energy consumption, lower emissions and reduce waste. We prioritize transparency in our actions and reporting, including reporting on our ESG risks and opportunities using the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures), SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) and GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) frameworks in our Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report (located on our website). Because privacy and cybersecurity are critical for success in the wireless industry, we seek to promote data protection across the mobile ecosystem. Further, we are committed to respecting all internationally recognized human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse, upholding adherence to our Supplier Code of Conduct in our extended supply chain, being a global leader in ethical business conduct and engaging in discussions to advocate for policies that promote innovation as well as protect and foster new ideas in mobile communications. 

2025 Goals. In addition to the human capital goals discussed below, our 2025 Goals related to corporate responsibility include, among others:

•Reduce our absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 30% from global operations, compared to a 2014 baseline.

•Reduce power consumption by 10% every year in our flagship Snapdragon Mobile Platform products (given equivalent features).

•Ensure 100% of our primary semiconductor manufacturing suppliers are audited every 2-years for conformance to our Supplier Code of Conduct.

Net-Zero Global GHG Emissions Commitment. In addition to our 2025 Goals, in November 2021, we announced plans to: (1) reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 global GHG emissions by 50% by 2030 from 2020 base year; (2) reduce absolute Scope 3 global GHG emissions by 25% by 2030 from 2020 base year; and (3) reach net-zero global GHG emissions for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2040.

The foregoing discussion includes information regarding ESG matters that we believe may be of interest to our stockholders generally. We recognize that certain other stakeholders (such as customers, employees and non-governmental organizations), as well as certain of our stockholders, may be interested in more detailed information on these topics. We encourage you to review our most recent Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report (located on our website) for more 

17

detailed information regarding our Corporate Responsibility and ESG governance, goals, priorities, accomplishments and initiatives; a 5G and sustainability report, Environmental Sustainability and a Greener Economy: The Transformative Role of 5G (also located on our website) for additional information regarding our views on climate change, environmental sustainability and the role of 5G in enabling a more sustainable future; as well as the Corporate Governance section of our most recent Proxy Statement, and our Corporate Governance Principles and Practices (located on our website), for additional information regarding governance matters, including Board and Committee leadership, oversight, roles and responsibilities, and Director independence, tenure, refreshment and diversity. Nothing on our website, including the aforementioned reports, documents or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.

Human Capital

 In order to continue to produce the innovative, breakthrough technologies for which we are known, it is crucial that we continue to attract and retain top talent. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, we strive to make Qualcomm a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace, with opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by strong compensation, benefits and health and wellness programs and by programs that build connections between our employees and their communities.

At September 26, 2021, we had approximately 45,000 full-time, part-time and temporary employees, the overwhelming majority of which were full-time employees. During fiscal 2021, the number of employees increased by approximately 4,000, primarily due to increases in engineering resources. Our employees are represented by more than 100 self-identified nationalities working in over 150 locations in 33 different countries around the world. Collectively, we speak more than 90 different languages. Our global workforce is highly educated, with the substantial majority of our employees working in engineering or technical roles (many of whom help develop foundational technologies for both our QCT semiconductor business and our QTL licensing business). During fiscal 2021, our voluntary turnover rate was less than 7%, below the technology industry benchmark, which is comprised of certain of our key competitors (Aon, 2021 Salary Increase and Turnover Study - Second Edition, September 2021).

Diversity and Inclusion. We believe that a diverse workforce is critical to our success, and we continue to focus on the hiring, retention and advancement of women and underrepresented populations. Our recent efforts have been focused in three areas: inspiring innovation through an inclusive and diverse culture; expanding our efforts to recruit and hire world-class diverse talent; and identifying strategic partners to accelerate our inclusion and diversity programs. 

We have employee networks that enhance our inclusive and diverse culture, including global network groups focused on supporting women, LGBTQ+ employees and employees with disabilities, in addition to U.S.-based employee networks that focus on Black and African American employees, Hispanic and Latinx employees and U.S. military members and veterans.

We continue to recruit technical talent in diverse communities, including by engaging as a high-level sponsor of professional conferences, such as the Grace Hopper Celebration, the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers National Convention and the National Society of Black Engineers National Convention. We also continue to recruit from a variety of colleges including Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Women’s Colleges. 

Our continued engagement with organizations that work with diverse communities has been vital to our efforts to increase women and minority representation in our workforce. For example, we partner with AnitaB.org to benchmark our progress and identify promising practices for recruiting, retaining and advancing women technologists and support its research initiatives related to attracting and retaining women and underrepresented minority students in computing majors. We, alongside other top technology companies, helped form the Reboot Representation Tech Coalition, which aims to double the number of Black, Latinx and Native American women receiving computing degrees by 2025. In collaboration with the National Foundation for Autism Research, we started an internship program to welcome those with autism into our Company. Through our collaboration with Disability:IN’s Inclusion Works program, we have increased our ability to address the needs of individuals with disabilities. 

We publish our most recent Consolidated EEO-1 reports on our website to provide additional transparency into our efforts to increase underrepresented populations in our workforce. 

From a governance perspective, the HR and Compensation Committee of our Board, through its charter, provides oversight of our policies, programs and initiatives focusing on workforce diversity and inclusion.

Health, Safety and Wellness. The success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our people. Accordingly, we are committed to the health, safety and wellness of our employees. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of innovative, flexible and convenient health and wellness programs, including benefits that provide protection and security concerning events that may require time away from work or that impact their financial well-being; that support their physical and mental health by providing tools and resources to help them improve or maintain their health status and encourage engagement in healthy behaviors; and that offer choice where possible so they can customize their benefits to meet their needs and the needs of their families. 

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in 2020, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, as well as the communities in which we operate, and which comply with government regulations. This included having the vast majority of our employees work from home, while implementing additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work. We introduced our Live+Well, Work+Well program, designed to 

18

help cultivate a productive work environment, while also focusing on our employees’ wellbeing. We have commenced a phased approach to returning our employees onsite, which included modifications to certain of our existing office locations as we adapt to a hybrid work environment that provides flexibility, while maintaining our strong culture of innovation, collaboration, openness and camaraderie, in addition to a safe working environment for our employees. We continue to monitor the state of the pandemic and gather additional feedback during the reopening of our offices to ensure the continued health, safety and wellness of our employees working onsite.

Compensation and Benefits. We provide robust compensation and benefits programs to help meet the needs of our employees. In addition to salaries, these programs (which vary by country/region) include annual bonuses, stock awards, an employee stock purchase plan, a 401(k) plan, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules, adoption and surrogacy assistance, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance and on-site services, such as health centers and fitness centers, among many others. In addition to our broad-based equity award programs, we have used targeted equity-based grants with vesting conditions to facilitate retention of personnel, particularly those with critical engineering skills and experience.

Talent Development. We invest significant resources to develop the talent needed to remain a world-leading wireless innovator. We deliver numerous training opportunities, provide rotational assignment opportunities, have expanded our focus on continuous learning and development, and implemented “industry-leading” methodologies to manage performance, provide feedback and develop talent.

Our talent development programs provide employees with the resources they need to help achieve their career goals, build management skills and lead their organizations. We provide a series of employee workshops around the globe that support professional growth and development. Additionally, our manager and employee forum programs provide an ongoing opportunity for employees to practice and apply learning around conversations aligned with our annual review process. We also have an employee development website that provides quick access to learning resources that are personalized to the individual’s development needs.

Building Connections - With Each Other and our Communities. We believe that building connections between our employees, their families and our communities creates a more meaningful, fulfilling and enjoyable workplace. Through our engagement programs, our employees can pursue their interests and hobbies, connect to volunteering and giving opportunities and enjoy unique recreational experiences with family members. Leveraging our partnerships with various local arts and culture organizations, we have created numerous unique experiences for employees and their families around the world. 

Since our employees are passionate about many causes, our corporate giving and volunteering programs support and encourage employees by engaging with those causes. In our offices around the world, our employee-led Giving Committees select local organizations to support, often in the form of grants that are primarily funded by the Qualcomm Foundation (which was established in 2011 to support charitable giving and volunteerism). We also frequently collaborate with these organizations on volunteer activities for our employees. Additionally, during fiscal 2021, thousands of our employees around the world utilized our charitable match program, benefiting more than 1,600 charitable organizations.

2025 Goals. We set the following 2025 Goals related to human capital, with a focus on diversity and inclusion:

•Increase women in leadership by 15% (defined as individuals at the principal and above level in technical roles, and director and above in non-technical roles). 

•Increase underrepresented minorities (URM) in leadership by 15% (for technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and American Indian or Native American; for non-technical positions, URM also includes Asian). 

•Increase overall URM representation by 20%.

Human Capital Advancements Added to our Executive Compensation. As previously disclosed in our 2021 Proxy Statement, and in response to stockholder feedback, our HR and Compensation Committee allocated 10% of our executives’ fiscal 2021 bonus to be based upon human capital advancements. The HR and Compensation Committee then adopted a framework for human capital advancements to include advancement of our 2025 diversity and inclusion goals, workforce stability and responsiveness to COVID-19. 

The foregoing discussion includes information regarding Human Capital matters that we believe may be of interest to stockholders generally. We recognize that certain other stakeholders (such as customers, employees and non-governmental organizations), as well as certain of our stockholders, may be interested in more detailed information on these topics. We encourage you to review the “Our People” section of our most recent Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report (located on our website) for more detailed information regarding our Human Capital goals, programs and initiatives. Nothing on our website, including our Consolidated EEO-1 reports, our Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.

19

Available Information

Our Internet address is www.qualcomm.com. There we make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports (among others), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website public financial information for which a report is not required to be filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our SEC reports and such other information can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website (https://investor.qualcomm.com/). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.

Information about our Executive Officers

Our executive officers (and their ages as of November 1, 2021) are as follows:

Cristiano R. Amon, age 51, has served as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director since June 2021. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer-elect from January 2021 to June 2021 and as President from January 2018 to January 2021. He served as Executive Vice President, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated (QTI), and President, QCT, from November 2015 to January 2018. He served as Executive Vice President, QTI and Co-President, QCT from October 2012 to November 2015, Senior Vice President and Co-President, QCT from June 2012 to October 2012 and as Senior Vice President, QCT Product Management from October 2007 to June 2012, with responsibility for our product roadmap, including the Qualcomm Snapdragon platforms. Mr. Amon joined Qualcomm in 1995 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at Qualcomm has held several other technical and leadership positions. Mr. Amon holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering and an honorary doctorate from UNICAMP, the State University of Campinas, Brazil.

Heather Ace, age 51, has served as Chief Human Resources Officer since March 2020. Prior to joining Qualcomm, Ms. Ace was Senior Vice President, Human Resources at DexCom, Inc., a provider of continuous glucose monitoring, from July 2016 to March 2020. Prior to DexCom, she was Executive Vice President, Human Resources at Orexigen Therapeutics, Inc., a developer of treatments for obesity, from January 2016 to July 2016. Ms. Ace was Integration Leader for Royal Philips, leading the cross-functional integration of Philips Healthcare’s acquisition of Volcano Corporation, from January 2015 to January 2016. She was Executive Vice President, Human Resources at Volcano Corporation from May 2012 to January 2015. Prior to May 2012, Ms. Ace served in various senior executive roles in human resources, post-acquisition/merger integration and employment law at Life Technologies Corporation. She began her career at Gray Cary Ware & Freidenrich (now DLA Piper) as a litigation and transactional employment attorney, specializing in mergers and acquisitions. Ms. Ace holds a B.A. in Law & Society from the University of California, Santa Barbara and a J.D. from Santa Clara School of Law.

Ann Cathcart Chaplin, age 48, has served as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since November 2021. Prior to joining Qualcomm, Ms. Chaplin served at General Motors Company as Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel, U.S., Transformation Initiatives and Corporate Securities from February 2021 to November 2021, Deputy General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, North America, Transformation Projects and Compliance from April 2019 to February 2021, Deputy General Counsel, Commercial, Transportation as a Service, Litigation and Regulation from January 2018 to April 2019, Deputy General Counsel, Intellectual Property, Regulation and Litigation from June 2017 to January 2018 and Deputy General Counsel, Litigation from December 2015 to June 2017. Prior to General Motors, Ms. Chaplin was Litigation Practice Group Leader/Litigation Equity Principal at the law firm of Fish & Richardson P.C. from February 2001 to December 2015. She began her career as an intellectual property litigation associate at the law firm of Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi LLP. Ms. Chaplin holds a B.A in Sociology of Law from the University of Minnesota and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. 

Akash Palkhiwala, age 46, has served as Chief Financial Officer since November 2019. He served as Senior Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer from August 2019 to November 2019. He served as Senior Vice President, QCT Finance, QTI from December 2015 to August 2019 and Senior Vice President and Treasurer from October 2014 to December 2015. Mr. Palkhiwala served as Vice President, QCT Finance from October 2012 to October 2014 and Vice President, QCT Finance, QTI from October 2009 to October 2012. He served in various other finance roles since joining Qualcomm in March 2001. Prior to joining Qualcomm, Mr. Palkhiwala was an Analyst at KeyBank. Mr. Palkhiwala has an undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering from L.D. College of Engineering in India and an M.B.A from the University of Maryland.

Alexander H. Rogers, age 64, has served as President, QTL and Global Affairs since June 2021. He served as President, QTL from October 2016 to June 2021. He served as Senior Vice President and President, QTL from September 2016 to October 2016, Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and General Manager, QTL from March 2016 to September 2016, Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel from October 2015 to March 2016 and Senior Vice President and Legal Counsel from April 2007 to October 2015. Prior to transitioning to QTL, Mr. Rogers led Qualcomm’s litigation group. Mr. Rogers joined Qualcomm in January 2001 as an attorney. Prior to joining Qualcomm, he was a partner at the law firm of Gray, Cary, Ware & Freidenrich (now DLA Piper), specializing in intellectual property and commercial litigation. Mr. Rogers holds a B.A. and an M.A. in English Literature from Georgetown University and a J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center.

James H. Thompson, age 57, has served as Chief Technology Officer, QTI since March 2017. He served as Executive Vice President, Engineering, QTI from October 2012 to March 2017 and as Senior Vice President, Engineering from July 1998 to October 2012. Dr. Thompson joined Qualcomm in 1992 as a senior engineer and throughout his tenure at Qualcomm 

20

has held several other technical and leadership positions. Dr. Thompson holds a B.S., an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin.

Item 1A. Risk Factors