PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

Ryder System, Inc. (Ryder) is a leading logistics and transportation company. We provide supply chain, dedicated transportation, and commercial fleet management solutions. We report our financial performance based on three business segments: (1) Fleet Management Solutions (FMS), which provides full service leasing and leasing with flexible maintenance options, commercial rental, and maintenance services of trucks, tractors and trailers to customers principally in the United States (U.S.), Canada and the United Kingdom (U.K.); (2) Supply Chain Solutions (SCS), which provides integrated logistics solutions, including distribution management, dedicated transportation, transportation management, last mile and professional services in North America; and (3) Dedicated Transportation Solutions (DTS), which provides turnkey transportation solutions in the U.S. that includes dedicated vehicles, drivers, management and administrative support. Dedicated transportation services provided as part of an operationally integrated, multi-service, supply chain solution to SCS customers are primarily reported in the SCS business segment.

MISSION AND STRATEGY

Ryder's mission is to provide innovative fleet management and supply chain solutions that are reliable, safe and efficient, enabling our customers to deliver on their promises. We seek to deliver valuable solutions that will compel customers to outsource their fleet management and supply chain needs to us. Our primary strategy is to accelerate growth in our supply chain and dedicated businesses and successfully grow in our fleet management solutions business by targeting those companies not currently outsourcing their fleet-related and logistics services as well as companies who have outsourced to other providers. This strategy is supported by:

•leveraging secular trends to outsource transportation and logistics services which is driven by increased cost and complexity of vehicle operation, labor constraints, and the need for efficient supply chains in a changing environment;

•offering innovative products, solutions and support services to create and strengthen customer relationships;

•delivering operational excellence through continuous productivity and process improvements;

•attracting, developing and retaining the best talent; and

•deploying technology to accelerate growth while improving operational efficiencies.

1

INDUSTRY AND OPERATIONS  

Fleet Management Solutions

Value Proposition

Through our FMS business, we provide our customers with a variety of fleet solutions that are designed to improve their competitive position. By outsourcing these services to us, our customers can focus on their core business, improve their efficiency and productivity, and lower their costs. Our FMS product offering is comprised of full service leasing as well as leasing with flexible maintenance options; shorter-term commercial vehicle rental; contract or transactional maintenance services; and value-added fleet support services to help fleet managers optimize their fleets by providing digital solutions, technology tools and information they need in the areas of asset performance, compliance, safety, and comprehensive fuel services. In addition, we provide our customers the ability to purchase a large selection of used trucks, tractors and trailers through our used vehicle sales facilities or through our website. FMS also provides vehicles and maintenance, fuel and other services for all vehicles used in our SCS and DTS businesses.

Market Trends

The U.S. commercial fleet market is estimated to include 9 million vehicles, of which 5 million vehicles are privately owned by companies, 2 million vehicles are with for-hire carriers, 1 million vehicles are leased from banks or other financial institutions, and 1 million vehicles are being leased or rented from third parties1. The companies that privately own their fleets generally provide all or a portion of the fleet management services for themselves rather than outsourcing those services to third parties such as Ryder.

The Canadian commercial fleet is estimated at 500,000 vehicles, of which approximately 15,000 vehicles are being leased or rented from other third parties2. In the U.K., approximately 250,000 vehicles are being leased or rented from third parties3. 

Over the last several years, many key trends have been reshaping the transportation industry. Companies that own, maintain and manage their own fleet of vehicles have put greater emphasis on the quality of their preventive maintenance and safety programs because of increased demand for efficiency and reliability. The maintenance and operation of commercial vehicles has become more complicated and expensive, requiring companies to spend a significant amount of time and money to keep up with new technology, diagnostics, retooling and training. Companies are also faced with labor issues, including a shortage of mechanics and qualified truck drivers. Maintenance and other vehicle operational processes have become more costly as a result of increased regulation and active enforcement efforts by federal and state governments require more stringent and costly operational processes and oversight. Also, fluctuating energy prices and alternative fuel technologies have and will make it difficult for businesses to predict and manage fleet costs. In addition, the value of used vehicles has generally declined over the past few years, which could lead to further risks when owning a vehicle. We believe these trends increase the value of our product offering and will increasingly lead privately held fleets and the for-hire carriers to decide to outsource.

Operations

In 2020, our global FMS business accounted for 55% of our consolidated revenue.

United States. Our FMS customers in the U.S. range from small businesses to large national enterprises operating in a wide variety of industries, the most significant of which are transportation and warehousing, food and beverage, housing, business and personal services, and industrial. At December 31, 2020, we had 535 operating locations, excluding ancillary storage locations, in 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. A location consists of a maintenance facility and serves multiple customers. Our maintenance facilities typically include a shop for preventive maintenance and repairs, a service island for fueling, safety inspections and preliminary maintenance checks, offices for sales and other personnel, and in many cases, a commercial rental vehicle counter. We also operate on-site at 166 customer locations, which primarily provide vehicle maintenance solely for that customer's fleet. 

Canada. At December 31, 2020, we had 33 operating locations throughout seven Canadian provinces. We also operate 14 maintenance facilities on-site at customer properties in Canada. 

Europe. At December 31, 2020, we managed a network of 344 third-party maintenance facilities and had 46 operating locations, primarily throughout the U.K., including those that we manage on behalf of our customers. We also supply and manage vehicles and equipment for military organizations in the U.K. and Germany. We have transformed our maintenance 

1 U.S. Fleet as of December 2020, Class 3-8, IHS Markit Ltd.

2 Canada Outsourced Fleet Market as of December 2020, Class 3-8, IHS Markit Ltd. 

3 U.K. Lease and Rental HGV Market, Projection for December 2020, Source: The Society of Motor Manufacturers & Traders (SMMT) 2010 & Ryder Internal Estimate

2

support activities to meet customer needs by introducing technology and digital tools and leveraging our maintenance partnerships to expand our maintenance network and customer support services. 

FMS Product Offerings

ChoiceLease. Our lease offering, ChoiceLease, provides customers with vehicles, maintenance services, supplies, and 

related equipment necessary for operation of the vehicles while our customers furnish and supervise their own drivers and exercise control over the vehicles. The ChoiceLease offering allows customers to select the terms of their lease alongside the level of maintenance they prefer, from full service coverage to on-demand, or pay-as-you-go, maintenance. 

Our ChoiceLease customers receive the following benefits:

•We are able to leverage our vehicle buying power for the benefit of our customers because we purchase a large number of vehicles from a limited number of manufacturers. Once we have signed an agreement with the customer, we acquire vehicles and components that are custom engineered to the customer’s requirements and lease the vehicles to the customer for periods generally ranging from three to seven years for trucks and tractors and typically ten years for trailers.

•We offer ChoiceLease customers a complete maintenance program designed to reduce vehicle downtime that includes a preventive maintenance plan that is based on vehicle type and time or mileage intervals. Alternatively, we offer flexible maintenance options to our customers designed to provide them with choices on their preferred level of maintenance. Given our continued focus on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of our maintenance services, particularly in light of changing technology and increased regulation, we provide our ChoiceLease customers with a cost effective alternative to maintaining their own fleet of vehicles and the flexibility to choose the maintenance program that works for them. 

•Our customers have access to our extensive network of maintenance facilities and trained technicians for maintenance, vehicle repairs, 24-hour emergency roadside service, and replacement vehicles for vehicles that are temporarily out of service.

•We typically retain vehicle residual risk exposure.

•Customers have an opportunity to enhance their standard lease with additional fleet support services, including our fuel and related services as described below; safety services including safety training, driver certification and loss prevention consulting; vehicle use and other tax reporting, permitting and licensing, and regulatory compliance (including hours of service administration); environmental services; and access to RyderGuide®, our mobile fleet tool that provides customers with 24/7 access to key operational and maintenance management information about their fleets; and access to RydeSmart®, a full-featured GPS fleet location, tracking, and vehicle performance telematics system. In January 2020, we announced our plan to exit the extension of our liability insurance coverage for ChoiceLease customers, which is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2021.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, ChoiceLease revenue accounted for 62% of our FMS total revenue.

SelectCare. Through our SelectCare product line, we provide maintenance services to customers who choose not to lease some or all of their vehicles from us. Our SelectCare customers have the opportunity to utilize our extensive network of maintenance facilities and trained technicians to maintain the vehicles they own or lease from third parties. There are several bundles of services available to SelectCare customers including full service contract maintenance, preventive only maintenance and on-demand maintenance. Vehicles covered under this offering are typically serviced at our own facilities. However, based on the size and complexity of a customer’s fleet, we may operate an on-site maintenance facility at the customer’s location or through our mobile service vehicles.

We may also offer our lease and maintenance customers additional maintenance and repair services, as needed, that are not included in contractual agreements, such as services when a customer damages a vehicle. In such situations, we generally charge the customer on an hourly basis for work performed. By servicing all of our customers’ maintenance needs, we create stronger, long-term relationships and have greater opportunity to provide customers with a wide range of outsourcing solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2020, SelectCare revenue accounted for 10% of our FMS total revenue.

Commercial Rental. We offer rental vehicles to customers that have a need to supplement their private fleet of vehicles on a short-term basis (one day up to one year in length), either because of seasonal increases in their business or discrete projects with additional transportation needs. ChoiceLease customers also utilize our commercial rental fleet to handle their peak or seasonal business needs, as substitute vehicles while their lease vehicles are undergoing maintenance, and while they are awaiting delivery of new lease vehicles. Although a portion of our commercial rental business is purely occasional in nature, we focus on building long-term relationships with customers so that we become their preferred source for commercial vehicle rentals. In addition to vehicle rental, we may extend liability insurance coverage under our existing policies to our rental 

3

customers as well as the benefits of cost savings and convenience of our comprehensive fuel services program. For the year ended December 31, 2020, commercial rental revenue accounted for 16% of our FMS total revenue. 

The following table provides information regarding the number of vehicles and customers by FMS product offering as of December 31, 2020: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________ 

(1)SelectCare customers include approximately 900 ChoiceLease customers

(2)Commercial rental customers represent those who rented a vehicle for more than 3 days during the year and includes approximately 6,300 ChoiceLease customers

Fuel Services. We provide our FMS customers with access to diesel fuel at competitive prices at 451 of our maintenance facilities across the United States and Canada. We also provide fuel services such as fuel planning, fuel tax reporting, centralized billing, fuel cards and fuel monitoring. Although fuel sales do not have a significant impact on our FMS earnings, as it is largely a pass-through cost to customers, we believe allowing customers to leverage our fuel buying power is a significant and valuable benefit to our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2020, fuel services revenue accounted for 11% of our FMS total revenue.

Used Vehicles. We primarily sell our used vehicles out of our 59 retail sales centers throughout North America (15 of which are co-located at an FMS shop), at our branch locations and through our website at www.Usedtrucks.Ryder.com. Typically, before we offer used vehicles for sale, our technicians ensure that the vehicles are Ryder CertifiedTM, which means that they have passed a comprehensive, multi-point performance inspection based on specifications formulated through our maintenance program; Ryder VerifiedTM, which are fully inspected and Department of Transportation (DOT) compliant vehicles with some wear and tear, or Ryder ReclassifiedTM. Given our focus on maximizing sales proceeds, we primarily sell our used vehicles through our retail channel, which allows us to leverage our maintenance expertise and strong brand reputation to realize higher sales proceeds than in the wholesale market. The realized sales proceeds of used vehicles are dependent upon various other factors, including the general state of the used vehicle market, the supply and demand for used commercial vehicles in wholesale and retail markets, and the age and condition of the vehicle at the time of its disposal. In recent years, the general state of the used vehicle sales market has been particularly challenging, which has required us to increase the amount of vehicles sold in the wholesale market, and lower residual value estimates on vehicles still in operation.

FMS Business Strategy

Our FMS business strategy is to be the leading provider of fleet management outsourcing services for light, medium and heavy duty commercial highway vehicles. This strategy revolves around the following interrelated goals and priorities:

•drive profitable fleet growth that maximizes our return on investment by (1) successfully implementing sales and marketing initiatives designed to compel private fleet operators and for-hire carriers to outsource all or some portion of their fleet management needs to us, (2) reducing costs through operational efficiencies, including long-term maintenance initiatives, and (3) offering innovative products, solutions and support services that will create and strengthen new and existing customer relationships;

•deliver a consistent, industry-leading and cost-effective lease and maintenance program to our customers through continued process improvement; productivity initiatives; and technology improvements, which also help us attract new customers; and

•optimize asset utilization and management, particularly with respect to our rental fleet, used vehicle operations and maintenance facility infrastructure.

Competition

As an alternative to using our fleet management services, companies may choose to provide these services for themselves or to obtain similar or alternative services from other third-party vendors.

Our FMS business segment competes with companies that provide and manage maintenance services themselves and those providing similar services on a national, regional and local level. Many regional and local competitors provide services on a national level through their participation in various cooperative programs. We compete with finance lessors, truck and trailer 

4

manufacturers and independent dealers who provide full service lease products, finance leases, extended warranty maintenance, rental and other transportation services. We compete with other companies based on factors such as price, geographic coverage, equipment, maintenance options, and service reliability and quality. We also face competition from managed maintenance providers who are hired to coordinate and manage the maintenance of large fleets of vehicles through a network of third-party maintenance providers. 

Supply Chain Solutions

Value Proposition

Through our SCS business, we offer a broad range of innovative logistics management services that are designed to optimize customers' supply chain and address customers' key business requirements. Our business is organized by industry verticals (Automotive, Technology and Healthcare, Consumer Packaged Goods and Retail, and Industrial and Other) to enable our teams to focus on the specific needs of their customers. Our SCS product offerings are organized into five categories: distribution management, dedicated transportation, transportation management, last mile and professional services. These offerings are supported by a variety of information technology and engineering solutions and can be provided independently or as an integrated solution to optimize supply chain effectiveness. Key aspects of our value proposition are our operational execution and industry expertise, which are important differentiators in the marketplace.

Market Trends

Logistics spending in the markets we target in North America equates to approximately $2 trillion, of which $245 billion is outsourced4. Outsourced logistics is a market with significant growth opportunity. More sophisticated supply chain practices are required as supply chains expand and become more complex and companies look for lower cost supply chain alternatives. In addition, disruptions from unexpected events, such as natural disasters and global pandemics, have caused companies to focus on risk management of their supply chains. For example, we believe the effects of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic are accelerating trends toward e-commerce fulfillment, final mile delivery of big and bulky goods, and onshoring and nearshoring of manufacturing and supply chain operations. The more complicated the supply chain or the product requirements, the greater the need for companies to utilize the expertise of supply chain solution providers. 

Operations

For the year ended December 31, 2020, our global SCS business accounted for 30% of our consolidated revenue.

U.S. At December 31, 2020, we had 190 SCS customer accounts in the U.S., most of which are large enterprises that maintain large, complex supply chains. Most of our core SCS business operations are strategically located in geographic locations to maximize efficiencies and reduce costs. At December 31, 2020, managed warehouse space totaled approximately 57 million square feet.

We also centralize certain logistics expertise in locations not associated with specific customer sites. For example, our carrier procurement, contract management, freight bill audit and payment services, and transportation optimization and execution groups operate out of our logistics centers in Novi, Michigan and Fort Worth, Texas.

Mexico. At December 31, 2020, we had 145 SCS customer accounts and managed warehouse space totaling approximately 4 million square feet. Our Mexico operations offer a full range of SCS services, which are often highly integrated with our distribution and transportation operations, and manage approximately 18,400 border crossings each month between the U.S. and Mexico.

Canada. At December 31, 2020, we had 34 SCS customer accounts and managed warehouse space totaling approximately 2.3 million square feet. The Canadian operations are highly coordinated with their U.S. and Mexico counterparts and manage approximately 9,500 border crossings each month.

4 Armstrong & Associates - Third-Party Logistics Market Results and Predictions for 2020, August 2020

5

SCS Product Offerings

Distribution Management. Our SCS business offers a wide range of services relating to a customer’s distribution operations, such as designing a customer’s distribution network; managing distribution facilities; offering an e-commerce service designed specifically for high-volumes; coordinating warehousing and transportation for inbound and outbound material flows; handling import and export for international shipments; coordinating just-in-time replenishment of component parts to manufacturing plants and final assembly; and providing shipments to customer distribution centers or end customer delivery points, including support for e-commerce networks. Additional value-added services, such as light assembly of components into defined units, packaging and refurbishment, are also offered to our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2020, distribution management solutions accounted for 39% of our SCS revenue.

Dedicated Transportation. Dedicated transportation services are offered as part of an integrated supply chain solution to our customers. We fulfill transportation needs for our customers with a combination of outside carriers and dedicated services. The dedicated transportation services offering combines the equipment, maintenance, drivers and additional services to provide a customer with a dedicated transportation solution that, combined with outside transportation, is designed to increase their competitive position, improve risk management and integrate their transportation needs with their overall supply chain. As part of our dedicated transportation services, we also offer routing and scheduling, fleet sizing, safety, regulatory compliance, risk management, technology and communication systems support including on-board computer and other technical support. These additional services allow our customers to mitigate labor challenges associated with maintaining a private fleet of vehicles, such as driver recruitment and turnover, and government regulation, including hours of service regulations, DOT audits and workers' compensation. Our dedicated transportation solution offers a high degree of specialization to meet the needs of customers with sophisticated service requirements such as tight delivery windows, high value or time-sensitive distribution, closed-loop distribution, multi-stop shipments, specialized equipment and integrated transportation needs. Dedicated transportation operations are located at our customer facilities, and our dedicated offering utilizes and benefits from our extensive network of FMS facilities, which provides maintenance for all Ryder vehicles used in SCS solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 33% of our SCS revenue was related to dedicated transportation services.

Transportation Management. Our SCS business offers transportation management services relating to all aspects of a customer’s transportation network. Our team of transportation specialists provides shipment planning and execution, which includes shipment optimization, load scheduling, and delivery confirmation through a series of technological and web-based solutions. Our transportation consultants focus on carrier procurement of all modes of transportation with an emphasis on truck-based transportation, and also includes rate negotiation, freight bill audits and payment services. In addition, our SCS business provides customers with brokerage services designed to provide prequalified trucking capacity in North America. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we purchased or executed approximately $6.1 billion in freight moves on our customers' behalf, including $84 million in brokerage services. For the year ended December 31, 2020, transportation management solutions accounted for 14% of our SCS revenue.

Last Mile. Our last mile offering consists of a network of 100 locations strategically located throughout the U.S. that receive, assemble, and prepare big and bulky items ranging from furniture to exercise equipment for in-home or office delivery, as well as a network to help fulfill e-commerce distribution needs. We offer tiered levels of delivery services to meet customers' needs, including placing the newly delivered item in the location of a consumer’s choosing, minor installation and disposal of the replaced item. We use proprietary scheduling software to provide customers with the appointment times they need and optimize routes for maximum efficiency. For the year ended December 31, 2020, our last mile service accounted for 10% of our SCS revenue.

Professional Services. In conjunction with providing the SCS services described previously, our SCS business offers a variety of knowledge-based professional services that support every aspect of a customer’s supply chain. Our SCS professionals are available to evaluate a customer’s existing supply chain to identify inefficiencies as well as opportunities for integration and improvement. Once the assessment is complete, we work with the customer to develop a supply chain strategy that will create the most value for the customer and their target clients. Once a customer has adopted a supply chain strategy, our SCS logistics team, supported by functional experts and representatives from our information technology, real estate and finance groups, work together to design a strategically focused supply chain solution. The solution may include both a network design that sets forth the number, location and function of key components of the network and a transportation solution that optimizes the mode or modes of transportation and route selection. In addition to providing the distribution and transportation expertise necessary to implement the supply chain solution, our SCS representatives can coordinate and manage all aspects of the customer’s supply chain provider network to assure consistency, efficiency and flexibility. For the year ended December 31, 2020, knowledge-based professional services accounted for 4% of our SCS revenue.

6

SCS Business Strategy

Our SCS business strategy is to offer our customers differentiated, functional execution and proactive solutions from our expertise in key industry verticals. The strategy revolves around the following interrelated goals and priorities:

•provide customers with best in class execution and quality through reliable and flexible supply chain solutions;

•develop innovative solutions and capabilities that drive value for our customers, such as RyderShareTM, a real-time collaborative visibility tool showing all goods moving across the supply chain;

•create a culture of innovation and collaboration to provide solutions to meet our clients' needs;

•focus consistently on network optimization and continuous improvement;

•execute on targeted sales and marketing growth strategies; and

•expand customer relationships to include fast growing offerings in e-commerce and last mile.

Competition

As an alternative to using our services, companies may choose to internally manage their own supply chains and logistics operations, or obtain similar or alternative services from other third-party vendors.

In the SCS business segment, we compete with a large number of companies providing similar services, each of which has a different set of core competencies. We compete with a handful of large, multi-service companies across all of our product offerings and industries. We also compete against other companies on specific service offerings (for example, in transportation management, distribution management or dedicated transportation) or with companies specializing in a specific industry. We face different competitors in each country or region where they may have a greater operational presence. We compete based on factors such as price, service offerings, market knowledge, expertise in logistics-related technology and overall performance (e.g., timeliness, accuracy, and flexibility).

Dedicated Transportation Solutions

Value Proposition

Through our DTS business, we combine equipment, maintenance, drivers, administrative services and additional services, including routing and scheduling, fleet sizing, safety, regulatory compliance, risk management, and technology and communication systems support to provide customers with a dedicated transportation solution that is designed to increase their competitive position, improve risk management and integrate their transportation needs with their overall supply chain. This solution allows us to mitigate our customers' labor challenges associated with maintaining a private fleet of vehicles, such as driver recruitment and retention, and government regulation, including electronic logging devices and hours of service regulations, DOT audits and workers’ compensation. Our DTS solution offers a high degree of specialization to meet the needs of customers with sophisticated service requirements such as tight delivery windows, high-value or time-sensitive freight distribution, closed-loop distribution, multi-stop shipments, specialized equipment and integrated transportation needs.

Market Trends

The U.S. dedicated market is estimated to be $20 billion5 from an addressable market of approximately $400 billion6. This market is affected by many of the same trends that impact our FMS business. The administrative requirements relating to regulations issued by the DOT regarding driver screening, training and testing, as well as record keeping and other costs associated with the hours of service requirements, make our DTS offering an attractive alternative to private fleet and driver management. There continues to be significant pressure on the availability of qualified truck drivers and shippers continue to seek dedicated capacity from quality transportation and logistics providers, which makes our offering attractive to potential customers. In addition, market demand for just-in-time delivery creates a need for well-defined routing and scheduling plans that are based on comprehensive asset utilization analysis and fleet rationalization studies offered as part of our DTS services.

Operations/Product Offerings

For the year ended December 31, 2020, our DTS business accounted for 15% of our consolidated revenue. At December 31, 2020, we had 188 DTS customer accounts in the U.S. Because it is highly customized, our DTS product is particularly attractive to companies that operate in industries that have time-sensitive deliveries or special handling requirements, as well as companies who require specialized equipment. DTS accounts typically operate in a limited geographic area, and, therefore, most of the drivers assigned to these accounts are short haul drivers, meaning they return home at the end of each work day, 

5 Armstrong & Associates - Third-Party Logistics Market Results and Predictions for 2020, August 2020

6 Addressable market as of October 2020, Class 3-8, IHS Markit Ltd. (formerly RL Polk) & Ryder Internal Estimates

7

which helps with driver recruiting and retention. Although a significant portion of our DTS operations are located at customer facilities, our DTS business also utilizes and benefits from our extensive network of FMS facilities, including the FMS maintenance network that services the vehicles used in DTS solutions.

In order to customize an appropriate DTS transportation solution for our customers, our DTS logistics specialists perform a transportation analysis using advanced logistics planning and operating tools. Based on this analysis, they formulate a logistics design that includes the routing and scheduling of vehicles, the efficient use of vehicle capacity and overall asset utilization. The goal of each customized plan is to create a distribution system that optimizes freight flow while meeting a customer’s service goals. A team of DTS transportation specialists can then implement the plan by leveraging the resources, expertise and technological capabilities of both our FMS and SCS businesses.

To the extent a distribution plan includes multiple modes of transportation (air, rail, sea and highway), our DTS team, in conjunction with our SCS transportation specialists, selects appropriate transportation modes and carriers, places the freight, monitors carrier performance and audits billing. In addition, through our SCS business, we can reduce costs and add value to a DTS customer’s distribution system by aggregating orders into loads, looking for shipment consolidation opportunities and organizing loads for vehicles that are returning from their destination point back to their point of origin (backhaul).

DTS Business Strategy

Our DTS business strategy is to offer services to customers who need specialized equipment, specialized handling or integrated services. This strategy revolves around the following interrelated goals and priorities:

•increase market share to provide more specialized services with customers across industries, including customers in the retail, metals and mining, energy and utility, consumer product goods, construction, and food and beverage industries;

•develop innovative solutions and capabilities that drive value for our customers, such as RyderShareTM, a real-time collaborative visibility tool showing all goods moving across the supply chain;

•utilize the support of the FMS sales team to compel private fleet operators to outsource all or some of their transportation needs to us;

•align the DTS business with other SCS product lines to create revenue opportunities and improve operating efficiencies in both segments; 

•leverage secular outsourcing trends, such as driver shortage and increased safety regulations and equipment costs; and

•improve competitiveness in the non-specialized and non-integrated customer segments.

Competition

Our DTS business segment competes with other dedicated providers and truckload carriers servicing on a national, regional and local level. We compete with these companies based on a number of factors, including price, equipment options and features, maintenance, service and geographic coverage, driver availability and operations expertise. We are able to differentiate our DTS product offering by leveraging our FMS vehicles and maintenance services and integrating the DTS services with those of SCS to create a more comprehensive transportation solution for our customers. Our strong safety record and focus on customer service also enables us to uniquely meet the needs of customers with high-value products that require specialized handling in a manner that differentiates us from truckload carriers.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

In addition to our continued focus on organic growth, strategic initiatives, including acquisitions and other investments or partnerships, play an important role in enhancing our growth strategy. In our SCS and DTS business segments, we focus on adding technological capabilities and product offerings, potentially expanding into new industries, diversifying our customer base within our current industries, and improving our competitive position. In assessing potential acquisitions and investments in our FMS business segment, we look for opportunities that would create value through operating synergies, expanding our service offerings, providing more efficient ways to offer or deliver our services, leveraging our existing facility infrastructure, improving our geographic coverage and diversifying our customer base. 

COVID-19

Our business has been, and may continue to be, impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. For a detailed discussion of its impact on our results of operations and future considerations, refer to our "Consolidated Results" and "Operating Results by Business Segment" discussions in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

8

and Note 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, for a detailed description of certain risk factors that impact our business, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic, refer to “Item 1A-Risk Factors” and "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" sections included in this Annual Report.

CYCLICALITY 

Our business is impacted by economic and market conditions. In a strong economic cycle, there is generally more demand for our fleet management, dedicated transportation and supply chain services. In a weak or volatile economy, demand for our services decreases and is considerably more unpredictable. Because of these factors, we have continued to focus on increasing the diversity of our customer base and strengthening our long-term business partnerships with our customers. Although we believe these efforts help mitigate the immediate impact of an economic downturn, customers are often unwilling to commit to a full-service lease or long-term supply chain and dedicated contracts during a protracted or severe economic downturn. Because commercial rental and used vehicle sales are transactional, they are more cyclical in nature and are also heavily dependent on economic and market conditions, and results can vary significantly in both the short- and long-term. We mitigate some of the potential impact of an economic downturn through a disciplined and centralized approach to asset management. This approach allows us to manage the size, mix and location of our operating fleet and used vehicle inventories to try and maximize asset utilization and used vehicle proceeds in both strong and weak market conditions. 

REGULATION

Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities. The DOT and various federal and state agencies exercise broad powers over certain aspects of our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and operations. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), under the DOT, manages a Compliance, Safety, Accountability initiative (CSA), partnering with state agencies designed to monitor and improve commercial vehicle motor safety, which uses roadside inspections and violations to measure motor carriers and drivers. The FMCSA also has regulations mandating electronic logging devices in commercial motor vehicles that impact various aspects of our dedicated, supply chain and rental businesses.

We are also subject to a variety of laws and regulations promulgated by national, state, provincial and local governments, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), which regulate safety, the management of hazardous materials, water discharges, air emissions, solid waste disposal and the release and cleanup of regulated substances. In addition, we must comply with licensing and other requirements imposed by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Customs Service as a result of increased focus on homeland security and our Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism certification. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by these agencies or other authorities or states relating to carbon controls and reporting, engine exhaust emissions, drivers’ hours of service, wage and hour requirements, security including data privacy and cyber security and ergonomics. We are also subject to a variety of state and local regulations related to pandemic response, including health and wellness and sanitation responses in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has, and will, require us to incur costs to comply with these regulations.

Additional information about the regulations that we are subject to can be found in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not believe compliance with governmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

Refer to Note 19, “Environmental Matters,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion surrounding environmental matters. 

HUMAN CAPITAL 

We strive to create a high-performance culture that embraces diverse perspectives and experiences and ensure that employees have opportunities to develop the skills they need to grow and excel in their fields. Human capital management is a priority for our executives and Board of Directors. We are committed to identifying and developing the talent necessary for our long-term success. We have a robust talent and succession planning process and have established programs to support the development of our talent pipeline for critical roles in our organization. Annually, we conduct a robust review with the leadership team focusing on high performing and high potential talent, diverse talent and succession for our critical roles. 

We also recognize that it is important to develop our future leaders. We provide a variety of resources to help our employees build and develop their skills, including online development resources as well as individual development opportunities and projects for key talent. Additionally, we have leadership development resources for our future leaders as they 

9

continue to develop their skills. We invest in our employees by offering comprehensive health, welfare and retirement programs, along with wellness programs and well-being initiatives.

At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 39,000 full-time employees worldwide, of which 38,000 were employed in North America and 1,000 in Europe. We currently employ approximately 8,600 drivers and 5,400 technicians. We have approximately 25,200 hourly employees in the U.S., approximately 3,500 of which are organized by labor unions. Those employees organized by labor unions are principally represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, and the United Auto Workers. Their wages and benefits are governed by 96 separate labor agreements which are renegotiated periodically. Although we have not experienced a material work stoppage or strike, these events can potentially occur given the types of businesses in which we currently engage. We consider the relationship with our employees to be good. Refer to "We may face difficulties in attracting and retaining drivers and technicians", included in Item 1A. Risk Factors for further information regarding risk associated with our human capital and the attraction, development, and retention of personnel.

Safety

Our safety culture is founded upon a core commitment to the safety, health and well-being of our employees, customers and the community. As a core value, our focus on safety is embedded in our day-to-day operations, reinforced by many safety programs and continuous operational improvement and supported by a talented and dedicated safety organization.

We have created and implemented policies, processes and training programs to minimize safety events. We review and monitor our performance closely. We deploy relevant vehicle safety systems in the vehicles we operate, including active brake assistance, lane departure warning systems and stability control, to enhance safety performance. We also install aftermarket safety monitoring systems that provide effective means for our operations teams to measure and improve driver performance, including in-vehicle video event recorders. Training is also a key component of our safety program. We use certified driver trainers to on-board and train our drivers using first hand experienced certified driver trainers. Proactive injury and crash prevention and remedial training are also delivered regularly online to each employee through a highly interactive lesson platform. Regular safety behavioral observations are conducted by managers throughout the organization every day and remedial training and coaching takes place on the spot. Our proprietary, web-based safety management system, RyderSafetyNetTM, delivers monthly proactive safety programs as well as safety compliance tasks tailored to every location and helps measure safety activity effectiveness across the organization. Our safety policies require that all managers, supervisors and employees incorporate safe processes in all aspects of our business. Monthly safety scorecards are tracked and reviewed by management for progress toward key safety objectives. 

COVID-19 and Employee Safety and Wellness

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the safety and well-being of our employees and their families has been a top priority, consistent with our company's core values, as we continue to serve our customers. Our operations supporting the supply chains and transportation needs of our customers has been deemed essential and we have continued operations during this period, but with diligent emphasis around following the guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and applicable state and local governments. We have adopted and implemented the COVID-19 Exposure Prevention, Preparedness, and Response Plan (COVID Response Plan), which defines our policies and procedures designed to mitigate the potential for transmission of COVID-19 and prevent exposure to illness from certain other infectious diseases. Among other things, the COVID Response Plan details employee and company responsibilities related to house-keeping and sanitization, hygiene and respiratory etiquette, use of personal protective equipment, employee and visitor screening procedures, leave policies and accommodations, remote working opportunities and infrastructure, and protocols for not reporting to work and when to return to work upon potential or confirmed COVID-19 exposure or infection. Company leadership and each business has increased the frequency of cross-functional communications to quickly identify and address any pandemic related needs. In addition, we use technology resources and human capital to develop tracking tools with predictive capabilities in an effort to further protect the workforce and efficiently deploy resources to do so. Further, we refined our wellness programs and communications aimed at informing employees about the pandemic, as well as engaging employees with healthcare providers to promote the proactive evaluation, tracking, and management of major health and wellness indicators. 

10

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Robert E. Sanchez was appointed Chair of Ryder's Board in May 2013 and promoted to Chief Executive Officer and became a Board member in January 2013. Previously, Mr. Sanchez served as President and Chief Operating Officer from February 2012 to December 2012. He served as President, Global Fleet Management Solutions from September 2010 to February 2012 and as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from October 2007 to September 2010. He also previously served as Executive Vice President of Operations, U.S. Fleet Management Solutions from October 2005 to October 2007 and as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from January 2003 to October 2005. Mr. Sanchez joined Ryder in 1993 and has held various other positions of increasing responsibility, including leadership positions in all three of Ryder's business segments.

Scott T. Parker joined Ryder in April 2019 and was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Ryder, Mr. Parker served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at OneMain Financial, a leading consumer finance company, where he was responsible for overseeing all financial operations since 2015. Prior to OneMain Financial, Mr. Parker served as Chief Financial Officer for CIT Group Inc., a commercial finance company, from 2010 to 2015. He also served as Chief Financial Officer from 2006 to 2008 and Chief Operating Officer from 2008 to 2010 of Cerberus Operations & Advisory Company, and spent more than 15 years in leadership roles within the industrial and financial services businesses at General Electric Company, including Chief Financial Officer of GE Capital Solutions from 2005 to 2006. 

John J. Diez has served as President, Global Fleet Management Solutions since September 2019. Previously, Mr. Diez served as President of Dedicated Transportation Solutions from March 2015 to August 2019, as Senior Vice President of Ryder Dedicated from March 2014 to February 2015, and as Senior Vice President of Asset Management from January 2011 to February 2014. Mr. Diez joined Ryder's Finance department in 2002 and has since held various positions within Finance including Senior Vice President Global Field Finance and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Fleet Management Solutions. 

J. Steven Sensing has served as President of Global Supply Chain Solutions since March 2015. In September 2019, the DTS business was consolidated under the leadership of Mr. Sensing. Previously, Mr. Sensing served as Vice President and General Manager of the Technology industry group from February 2007 to February 2015. In July 2014, he also added the Retail industry group under his leadership. Mr. Sensing joined Ryder in 1992 and has since held various positions within Dedicated Services, Transportation Management and Distribution Management. 

Robert D. Fatovic has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary since May 2004. He previously served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Supply Chain Operations, Hi-Tech and Consumer Industries from December 2002 to May 2004. Mr. Fatovic joined Ryder’s Law department in 1994 as Assistant Division Counsel and has held various other positions within the Law department including Vice President and Deputy General Counsel.

John Gleason has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Sales Officer since November 2015. Previously, Mr. Gleason served as Senior Vice President of Global Fleet Management Solutions from October 2009, when he joined Ryder, to October 2015. Prior to joining Ryder, Mr. Gleason served as Chief Sales Officer for Automatic Data Processing from April 2005 to September 2009 and as Senior Vice President of Sales from July 1998 to April 2005.

Karen M. Jones has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since October 2014. She joined Ryder in September 2013 as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining Ryder, Ms. Jones was Chief Marketing Officer for NRG/Reliant Energy, Inc from 2010 to 2013. Previously, Ms. Jones served as Senior Vice President of Marketing and Corporate Communications for DHL Express U.S. from 2006 to 2009 and as Vice President of Advertising, 

11

Brand Management and Promotion from 2004 to 2006. In addition, Ms. Jones has served in key positions responsible for worldwide brand advertising, sponsorship, and strategic alliances for Hewlett Packard.

Frank Lopez was appointed as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer in February 2018. Previously, Mr. Lopez served as Chief Human Resources Officer since February 2016 and Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources Operations since July 2013. Mr. Lopez joined Ryder in 2002 and has since held various positions within the Human Resources, Labor Relations and Legal functions.

Timothy (Tim) Fiore was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer in March of 2018. He previously held the same role from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his current role, Mr. Fiore was the Senior Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer of ThyssenKrupp NA, a manufacturer and supplier of automotive and industrial components and equipment, from 2012 until his retirement in 2014. In that role, he was responsible for developing and implementing ThyssenKrupp’s first consolidated North American supply management program. He also serves as Chair of the Institute for Supply Management's Manufacturing Business Survey Committee since 2017. Over the course of his career, Mr. Fiore has also held senior supply management roles at Terex Corporation, Celanese Corporation, and United Technologies Corporation. 

Rajeev Ravindran joined Ryder and was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in January 2018. Mr. Ravindran has over 20 years of IT leadership experience and was previously the CIO and Group Vice President at JM Enterprises since 2012. Prior to JM, Mr. Ravindran worked in IT leadership roles at various companies including Interactive Metronome, Asista.com, and AutoNation. 

Cristina Gallo-Aquino has served as Senior Vice President and Controller since August 2020. Previously, Ms. Gallo-Aquino served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Global Fleet Management Solutions from August 2015 through August 2020 and Vice President and Controller from September 2010 through August 2015. Ms. Gallo-Aquino joined Ryder in 2004 and has held various positions within the Finance and Corporate Accounting departments. 

FURTHER INFORMATION

For further discussion concerning our business, see the information included in Items 7 and 8 of this report. Industry and market data used throughout Item 1 was obtained through a compilation of surveys and studies conducted by industry sources, consultants and analysts.

We make available our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports through the Investor Relations page on our website at www.ryder.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and our other SEC filings. The address of the SEC's website is www.sec.gov. 

In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Principles of Business Conduct and Board committee charters are posted on the Corporate Governance page of our website at www.investors.ryder.com. Upon request to our Investor Relations page on our website at www.ryder.com, we will provide a copy of these documents to anyone, free of charge.

12

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS