Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Certain information contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis and in other parts of this report may be deemed forward-looking statements regarding events and financial trends that may affect the Company’s future operating results or financial positions. These statements may be identified by words such as “estimate”, “forecast”, “project”, “plan”, “intend”, “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, or variations or negatives thereof or by similar or comparable words or phrases. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: changes to or new interpretations of U.S. or international tax regulations, the global financial and economic situation; the duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to mitigate its spread; changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in the United States or foreign countries where the Company does business, or in particular regions or industries; reduction in the supply of candidates for contract employment or the Company’s ability to attract candidates; the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing competitors; the ability of the Company to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any change in the demand for the Company’s services, on the Company’s ability to maintain its margins; the possibility of the Company incurring liability for its activities, including the activities of its engagement professionals, or for events impacting its engagement professionals on clients’ premises; the possibility that adverse publicity could impact the Company’s ability to attract and retain clients and candidates; the success of the Company in attracting, training, and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; the Company’s ability to comply with governmental regulations affecting personnel services businesses in particular or employer/employee relationships in general; whether there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; the Company’s reliance on short-term contracts for a significant percentage of its business; litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities, including litigation that may be disclosed from time to time in the Company’s Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings; the ability of the Company to manage its international operations and comply with foreign laws and regulations; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the possibility that the additional costs the Company will incur as a result of health care reform legislation may adversely affect the Company’s profit margins or the demand for the Company’s services; the possibility that the Company’s computer and communications hardware and software systems could be damaged or their service interrupted or the Company could experience a cybersecurity breach; and the possibility that the Company may fail to maintain adequate financial and management controls and as a result suffer errors in its financial reporting. Additionally, with respect to Protiviti, other risks and uncertainties include the fact that future success will depend on its ability to retain employees and attract clients; there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; failure to produce projected revenues could adversely affect financial results; and there is the possibility of involvement in litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities. Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the Company’s business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results.

Executive Overview

The Company’s financial results during 2020 were affected by the economic crisis resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, primarily in the Company’s staffing business. Annual service revenues reached $5.11 billion in 2020, a decrease of 15.9% from the prior year. Full-year 2020 net income decreased to $306 million and diluted net income per share decreased to $2.70. Both the temporary and consultant staffing segment and the permanent placement staffing segment experienced revenue declines, while revenue in the risk consulting and internal audit services segment increased 11.8% in 2020 compared to last year.

Demand for the Company’s contract and consulting staffing, permanent placement staffing, and risk consulting and internal audit services is largely dependent upon general economic and labor trends both domestically and abroad. Although COVID-19 continues to impact the global economy, the Company has prioritized the health and safety of its employees, and a majority of global staffing and Protiviti employees continue working remotely. The Company has maintained full operations even where physical locations have remained closed. We believe that the Company is well positioned to participate fully as broader economic growth returns. Despite continued general economic declines, there is still strong competition for skilled talent, which increases the Company’s value to clients. 

The extent of the economic disruption on the Company’s operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the pandemic and related actions taken by the U.S. government, state and local government officials, and international governments to prevent disease spread, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted.

16

Given the magnitude of the COVID-19 impact on the Company’s business, we have worked to effectively manage our costs and pursue revenue-generation opportunities.

Protiviti continued its record of multi-year double-digit revenue growth, with particular strength in its technology consulting practice, and it continues to benefit from multiple solutions offerings and pipeline, including particularly robust growth from the blended solutions with the Company’s temporary and consultant staffing operations.

The United States economic backdrop during 2020 was one of uncertainty as real gross domestic product (“GDP”) decreased 3.5% compared with an increase of 2.3% in 2019. The unemployment rate increased from 3.5% in December 2019, to a peak of 14.7% during April 2020, ending with 6.7% in December 2020.

We monitor various economic indicators and business trends in all of the countries in which we operate to anticipate demand for the Company’s services. We evaluate these trends to determine the appropriate level of investment, including personnel, which will best position the Company for success in the current and future global macroeconomic environment. The Company’s investments in headcount are typically structured to proactively support and align with expected revenue growth trends and productivity metrics. We have limited visibility into future revenues not only due to the dependence on macroeconomic conditions noted above, but also because of the relatively short duration of the Company’s client engagements. Accordingly, we typically assess headcount and other investments on at least a quarterly basis. As such, during 2020, we decreased headcount in our staffing lines of business but increased headcount in the Protiviti line of business when compared to prior year-end levels. We are focused on the productivity levels of tenured staff and believe we have aligned staffing levels to drive increased profitability.

Capital expenditures, including $33 million related to cloud computing implementations, in 2020 totaled $67 million, approximately 71% of which represented investments in software initiatives and technology infrastructure, both of which are important to the Company’s future growth opportunities. Capital expenditures for cloud computing implementation costs are included in cash flows from operating activities on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Capital expenditures also included amounts spent on tenant improvements and furniture and equipment in the Company’s leased offices. We currently expect that 2021 capitalized expenditures will range from $85 million to $95 million, of which $50 million to $60 million relates to software initiatives and technology infrastructure, including capitalized costs relating to the implementation of cloud computing arrangements.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

As described below, the Company’s most critical accounting policies and estimates are those that involve subjective decisions or assessments.

Service Revenues. The Company derives its revenues from three segments: temporary and consultant staffing, permanent placement staffing, and risk consulting and internal audit services. Revenues are recognized when promised goods or services are delivered to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. See Note C—“Revenue Recognition” to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II—Item 8 of this report.

Income Taxes. The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes. In establishing its deferred income tax assets and liabilities and its provision for income taxes, the Company makes judgments and interpretations based on the enacted tax laws that are applicable to its operations in various jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured and recorded using current enacted tax rates, which the Company expects will apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are recovered or settled. The likelihood of a material change in the Company’s expected realization of its deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income and the effectiveness of its tax planning in the various relevant jurisdictions.

The Company also evaluates the need for valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to realizable amounts. Management evaluates all positive and negative evidence and uses judgment regarding past and future events, including operating results, to help determine when it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets may not be realized. When appropriate, a valuation allowance is recorded against deferred tax assets to offset future tax benefits that may not be realized. Valuation allowances of $24.1 million and $21.6 million were recorded as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The valuation allowances recorded relate primarily to net operating losses in certain foreign operations. If such losses are ultimately utilized to offset future segment income, the Company will recognize a tax benefit up to the full amount of the related valuation reserve. 

While management believes that its judgments and interpretations regarding income taxes are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience may materially affect the future financial results of the Company.

17

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note B—“New Accounting Pronouncements” to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under 

Part II—Item 8 of this report.