Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

In March 2020, the World Health Organization announced that COVID-19 had become pandemic. The subsequent global stay-at-home orders resulted in significant travel restrictions and business closures. These actions have led to global economic disruptions. We are continuing to monitor the efforts to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including uncertainty around the duration and extent of the stay-at-home orders and the effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In light of the economic disruption, we face a greater degree of uncertainty than normal in making the judgments and estimates needed to apply the Company’s significant accounting policies. As the situation continues to develop, we may make changes to these estimates and judgments over time, which could result in meaningful impacts to the Company’s financial statements in future periods. Actual results and outcomes may differ from management’s estimates and assumptions.

Because a portion of the Company’s net revenues are derived from its operations outside the U.S. and are denominated in

local currencies, the Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the Company’s foreign subsidiaries. Exchange rates impact the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s reported revenues, expenses, earnings, assets and liabilities.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 22% of the Company’s revenues were generated outside of the United States. These operations transact business in their functional currency, which is the same as their local currency. As a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly the Canadian dollar, British pound, Euro, and Australian dollar have an impact on the Company’s reported results. Under GAAP, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the monthly average exchange rates prevailing during the period. Consequently, as the value of the U.S. dollar changes relative to the currencies of the Company’s non-U.S. markets, the Company’s reported results vary.

During 2020, the U.S. dollar fluctuated and strengthened against the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar but weakened against the British pound and Euro, compared to one year ago. Currency exchange rates had the effect of decreasing reported service revenues by $1.6 million, or less than 0.1%, in 2020 compared to prior year. The general fluctuation of the U.S. dollar also affected the reported level of expenses incurred in the Company’s foreign operations. Because substantially all of the Company’s foreign operations generated revenues and incurred expenses within the same country and currency, the effect of lower reported revenues is largely offset by the decrease in reported operating expenses. Reported net income was $0.9 million, or 0.2%, lower in the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to prior year due to the effect of currency exchange rates.

For the one month ended January 31, 2021, the U.S. dollar has strengthened against the Euro, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar and weakened against the British pound, since December 31, 2020. If currency exchange rates were to remain at January 2021 levels throughout 2021, the currency impact on the Company’s full-year reported revenues and operating expenses would be nearly flat compared to full year 2020 results. Should current trends continue, the impact on reported net income would be immaterial.

Fluctuations in currency exchange rates impact the U.S. dollar amount of the Company’s stockholders’ equity. The assets and liabilities of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at period end. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Although currency fluctuations impact the Company’s reported results and shareholders’ equity, such fluctuations generally do not affect cash flow or result in actual economic gains or losses. The Company generally has few cross-border transfers of funds, except for transfers to the U.S. for payment of intercompany loans, working capital loans made between the U.S. and the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, and dividends from the Company’s foreign subsidiaries.

26

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data