PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

SL Green Realty Corp. is a self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of commercial and residential real estate properties, principally office properties, located in the New York metropolitan area. We were formed in June, 1997 for the purpose of continuing the commercial real estate business of S.L. Green Properties, Inc., our predecessor entity. S.L. Green Properties, Inc., which was founded in 1980 by Stephen L. Green, who serves as a member and the chairman emeritus of the Company's board of directors, had been engaged in the business of owning, managing, leasing, and repositioning office properties in Manhattan, a borough of New York City.

As of December 31, 2020, we owned the following interests in properties in the New York metropolitan area, primarily in midtown Manhattan. Our investments located outside of Manhattan are referred to as the Suburban properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The weighted average occupancy for commercial properties represents the total occupied square feet divided by total square footage at acquisition. The weighted average occupancy for residential properties represents the total occupied units divided by total available units.

As of December 31, 2020, we also managed two office buildings owned by third parties encompassing approximately 2.1 million square feet, and held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $1.1 billion, excluding $0.1 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the Debt and Preferred Equity Investments line item.

Our corporate offices are located in midtown Manhattan at 420 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10170. As of December 31, 2020, we employed 794 employees, 273 of whom were employed in our corporate offices. We can be contacted at (212) 594-2700. We maintain a website at www.slgreen.com. On our website, you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We have also made available on our website our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, nominating and corporate governance committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance principles. We do not intend for information contained on our website to be part of this annual report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the "Company," "SL Green," "we," "our" and "us" in this annual report means SL Green Realty Corp., a Maryland corporation, and one or more of its subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership, or, as the context may require, SL Green only or the Operating Partnership only, and "S.L. Green Properties" means S.L. Green Properties, Inc., a New York corporation, as well as the affiliated partnerships and other entities through which Stephen L. Green historically conducted commercial real estate activities.

Corporate Structure

In connection with the Company's initial public offering, or IPO, in August 1997, the Operating Partnership received a contribution of interests in real estate properties as well as a 95% economic, non-voting interest in the management, leasing and 

5
construction companies affiliated with S.L. Green Properties. We refer to these management, leasing and construction entities, which are owned by S.L. Green Management Corp, as the "Service Corporation." The Company is organized so as to qualify, and has elected to qualify as a REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code.

Substantially all of our assets are held by, and all of our operations are conducted through, the Operating Partnership. We are the sole managing general partner of the Operating Partnership, and as of December 31, 2020, we owned 94.71% of its economic interests. All of the management and leasing operations with respect to our wholly-owned properties are conducted through SL Green Management LLC, or Management LLC. The Operating Partnership owns 100% of Management LLC.

In order to maintain the Company's qualification as a REIT while realizing income from management, leasing and construction contracts with third parties and joint venture properties, all of these service operations are conducted through the Service Corporation, a consolidated variable interest entity. We, through our Operating Partnership, receive substantially all of the cash flow from the Service Corporation's operations. All of the voting common stock of the Service Corporation is held by an entity owned and controlled by Stephen L. Green, who serves as a member and as the chairman emeritus of the Company's board of directors.

Business and Growth Strategies

SL Green is Manhattan's largest owner of office real estate and an investment-grade, S&P 500 company that is focused primarily on the acquisition, development, ownership, management, operation and value maximization of Manhattan commercial properties.

Our core business is the ownership of high quality commercial properties and our primary business objective is to maximize the total return to stockholders, through net income attributable to common stockholders and funds from operations, or FFO, and through asset value appreciation. The commercial real estate expertise resulting from owning, operating, investing, developing, redeveloping and lending on real estate in Manhattan for over 40 years has enabled us to invest in a collection of premier office properties, selected retail and multifamily residential assets, and high-quality debt and preferred equity investments.

We are led by a strong, experienced management team that provides a foundation of skills in all aspects of real estate, including acquisitions, dispositions, management, leasing, development, redevelopment, and financing. It is with this team that we have achieved a market leading position in our targeted submarkets.

We seek to enhance the value of our company by executing strategies that include the following:

•Leasing and property management, which capitalizes on our extensive presence and knowledge of the marketplaces in which we operate;

•Acquiring properties and employing our local market skills to reposition these assets to create incremental cash flow and capital appreciation;

•Identifying properties well suited for development/redevelopment and maximizing the value of those properties through development/redevelopment or reconfiguration to match current workplace, retail and housing trends;

•Investing in debt and preferred equity positions that generate consistently strong risk-adjusted returns, increase the breadth of our market insight, foster key market relationships and source potential future investment opportunities;

•Executing dispositions through sales or joint ventures that harvest embedded equity which has been generated through management's value enhancing activities; and

•Maintaining a prudently levered, liquid balance sheet with consistent access to diversified sources of property level and corporate capital.

Leasing and Property Management

We seek to capitalize on our management's extensive knowledge of Manhattan and the New York metropolitan area and the needs of our tenants through proactive leasing and management programs, which include: (i) use of in-depth market experience resulting from managing and leasing tens of millions of square feet of office, retail and residential space since the Company was founded; (ii) careful tenant management, which results in a high tenant retention rate, long average lease terms and a manageable lease expiration schedule; (iii) utilization of an extensive network of third-party brokers to supplement our in-house leasing team; (iv) use of comprehensive building management analysis and planning; and (v) a commitment to tenant satisfaction by understanding and appreciating our tenant's businesses and the environment in which they are operating, while providing high quality tenant services at competitive rental rates.

Property Acquisitions

6
We acquire properties for long-term value appreciation and earnings growth. This strategy has resulted in capital gains that increase our investment capital base. In implementing this strategy, we continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities. These opportunities may come from new properties as well as the acquisition of properties in which we already hold a joint venture interest or, from time to time, from our debt and preferred equity investments.

Through intimate knowledge of our markets we have developed an ability to source transactions with superior risk-adjusted returns by capturing off-market opportunities. In rising markets, we primarily seek to acquire strategic vacancies that provide the opportunity to take advantage of our exceptional leasing and repositioning capabilities to increase cash flow and property value. In stable or falling markets, we primarily target assets featuring credit tenancies with fully escalated in-place rents to provide cash flow stability near-term and the opportunity for increases over time.

We believe that we have many advantages over our competitors in acquiring core and non-core properties, both directly and through our joint venture program that includes a predominance of high quality institutional investors. Those advantages include: (i) senior management's long-tenured experience leading a full-service, fully-integrated real estate company focused, primarily, on the Manhattan market; (ii) the ability to offer tax-efficient structures to sellers through the exchange of ownership interests, including units in our Operating Partnership; and (iii) the ability to underwrite and close transactions on an expedited basis even when the transaction involves a complicated structure.

Property Dispositions

We continually evaluate our portfolio to identify those properties that are most likely to meet our long-term earnings and cash flow growth objectives and contribute to increasing portfolio value. Properties that no longer meet our objectives are evaluated for sale, or in certain cases, joint venture to release equity created through management's value enhancement programs or to take advantage of attractive market valuations.

We seek to efficiently deploy the capital proceeds generated from these dispositions into property acquisitions and debt and preferred equity investments that we expect will provide enhanced future capital gains and earnings growth opportunities. Management may also elect to utilize the capital proceeds from these dispositions to repurchase shares of our common stock, repay existing indebtedness of the Company or its subsidiaries, or increase cash liquidity.

Property Repositioning

Our extensive knowledge of the markets in which we operate and our ability to efficiently plan and execute capital projects provide the expertise to enhance returns by repositioning properties that are underperforming. Many of the properties we own or seek to acquire feature unique architectural design elements or other amenities and characteristics that can be appealing to tenants when fully exploited. Our strategic investment in these properties, combined with our active management and pro-active leasing, provide the opportunity to creatively meet market needs and generate favorable returns.

Development / Redevelopment

Our constant interactions with tenants and other market participants keep us abreast of innovations in workplace layout, store design and smart living. We leverage this information to identify properties primed for development or redevelopment to meet these demands and unlock value. The expertise and relationships that we have built from managing complex construction projects in New York City and its surrounding areas allow us to cost efficiently add new and renovated assets of the highest quality and desirability to our operating portfolio.

Debt and Preferred Equity Investments

We invest in well-collateralized debt and preferred equity investments in the markets in which we operate, primarily New York City, that generate attractive yields. See Note 5, "Debt and Preferred Equity Investments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Knowledge of our markets and our leasing and asset management expertise provide underwriting capabilities that enable a highly educated assessment of risk and return. The benefits of this investment program, which has a carefully managed aggregate size, include the following:

•Our typical investments provide high current returns at conservative exposure levels and, in certain cases, the potential for future capital gains. Our expertise and operating capabilities provide both insight and operating skills that mitigate risk.

•In certain instances, these investments serve as a potential source of real estate acquisitions for us when a borrower seeks an efficient off-market transaction. Ownership knows that we are fully familiar with the asset through our existing investment, and that we can close more efficiently and quickly than others. Property owners may also provide us the opportunity to consider off-market transactions involving other properties because we have previously provided debt or preferred equity financing to them.

•These investments are concentrated in Manhattan, which helps us gain market insight, awareness of upcoming investment opportunities and foster key relationships that may provide access to future investment opportunities.

7
Capital Resources

Our objective is to maintain multiple sources of corporate and property level capital to obtain the most appropriate and lowest cost of capital. This objective is supported by:

•Property operations that generally provide stable cash flows through market cycles, long average lease terms, high credit quality tenants and superior leasing, operating and asset management skills;

•Concentration of our activities in a Manhattan market that is consistently attractive to property investors and lenders through market cycles relative to other markets;

•Maintaining strong corporate liquidity and careful management of future debt maturities; and

•Maintaining access to corporate capital markets through balanced financing and investment activities that result in strong balance sheet and cash flow metrics.

Manhattan Office Market Overview

Manhattan is the largest office market in the United States containing more rentable square feet than the next four largest central business district office markets combined. According to Cushman and Wakefield Research Services as of December 31, 2020, Manhattan has a total office inventory of approximately 404.7 million square feet, including approximately 248.6 million square feet in midtown. The properties in our portfolio are primarily concentrated in some of Manhattan's most prominent midtown locations.

While the near-term addition of new supply to the Manhattan office inventory is expected to be nominal relative to the size of the overall market, we view new supply as a positive to the Manhattan office market given the older vintage of the majority of Manhattan’s office inventory and the increasing desire of certain tenants to occupy new, high quality, efficient office space, which often isn’t available in older vintage properties.

According to Cushman and Wakefield Research Services the total volume of leases signed in Manhattan for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was 12.8 million and 34.7 million, respectively. Manhattan's diverse tenant base is exemplified by the following tables, which show the percentage of leasing volume attributable to each industry:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Source: Cushman and Wakefield Research Services

General Terms of Leases in the Manhattan Markets

Leases entered into for space in Manhattan typically contain terms that may not be contained in leases in other U.S. office markets. The initial term of leases entered into for space in Manhattan is generally seven to fifteen years. Tenants leasing space in excess of 10,000 square feet for an initial term of 10 years or longer often will negotiate an option to extend the term of the lease for one or two renewal periods, typically for a term of five years each. The base rent during the initial term often will provide for agreed-upon periodic increases over the term of the lease. Base rent for renewal terms is most often based upon the then fair market rental value of the premises as of the commencement date of the applicable renewal term (generally determined by binding arbitration in the event the landlord and the tenant are unable to mutually agree upon the fair market value), though base rent for a renewal period may be set at 95% of the then fair market rent. Very infrequently, leases may contain termination options whereby a tenant can terminate the lease obligation before the lease expiration date upon payment of a penalty together with repayment of the unamortized portion of the landlord's transaction costs (e.g., brokerage commissions, free rent periods, tenant improvement allowances, etc.).

8
In addition to base rent, a tenant will generally also pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for the building over a base year, which is typically the year during which the term of the lease commences, based upon the tenant's proportionate occupancy of the building. In some smaller leases (generally less than 10,000 square feet), in lieu of paying additional rent based upon increases in building operating expenses, base rent will be increased each year during the lease term by a set percentage on a compounding basis (though the tenant will still pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes over a base year).

Tenants typically receive a free rent period following commencement of the lease term, which in some cases may coincide with the tenant's construction period.

The landlord most often supplies electricity either on a sub-metered basis at the landlord's cost plus a fixed percentage or on a rent inclusion basis (i.e., a fixed fee is added to the base rent for electricity, which amount may increase based upon increases in electricity rates or increases in electrical usage by the tenant). Base building services, other than electricity, such as heat, air conditioning, freight elevator service during business hours and base building cleaning typically are provided at no additional cost, but are included in the building's operating expenses. The tenant will typically pay additional rent only for services which exceed base building services or for services which are provided other than during normal business hours.

In a typical lease for a new tenant renting in excess of 10,000 square feet, the landlord will deliver the premises with existing improvements demolished. In such instances, the landlord will typically provide a tenant improvement allowance, which is a fixed sum that the landlord makes available to the tenant to reimburse the tenant for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction of its premises. Such sum typically is payable as work progresses, upon submission by the tenant of invoices for the cost of construction and lien waivers. However, in certain leases (most often for relatively small amounts of space), the landlord will construct the premises for the tenant at a cost to the landlord not to exceed an agreed upon amount with the tenant paying any amount in excess of the agreed upon amount. In addition, landlords may rent space to a tenant that is "pre-built" (i.e., space that was constructed by the landlord in advance of lease signing and is ready to for the tenant to move in with the tenant selecting paint and carpet colors).

Occupancy

The following table sets forth the weighted average occupancy rates at our office properties based on space leased for properties owned by us as of December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)All office properties located in Manhattan owned by us at January 1, 2019 and still owned by us in the same manner at December 31, 2020. Percent Occupied includes leases signed but not yet commenced.

(2)Excludes properties under development.

Rent Growth

We are constantly evaluating our schedule of future lease expirations to mitigate occupancy risk while maximizing net effective rents. We proactively manage future lease expirations based on our view of estimated current and future market conditions and asking rents. The following table sets forth our future lease expirations, excluding triple net leases, and management's estimates of market asking rents. Taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from building to building. There can be no assurances that our estimates of market rents are accurate or that market rents currently prevailing will not erode or outperform in the future. 

9
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NOTE: Data excludes space currently occupied by SL Green's corporate offices

(1)Includes month to month holdover tenants that expired prior to December 31, 2020.

(2)Tenants may have multiple leases.

(3)Represents in place annualized rent allocated by year of expiration. 

(4)Management's estimate of current average asking rents for currently occupied space as of December 31, 2020. Taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from property to property.

Industry Segments

The Company is a REIT that is engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of commercial and residential real estate properties, principally office properties, located in the New York metropolitan area and has two reportable segments: real estate and debt and preferred equity investments. Our industry segments are discussed in Note 21, "Segment Information," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

At December 31, 2020, our real estate portfolio was primarily located in one geographical market, the New York metropolitan area. The primary sources of revenue are generated from tenant rents, escalations and reimbursement revenue. Real estate property operating expenses consist primarily of cleaning, security, maintenance, utility costs, real estate taxes and, at certain properties, ground rent expense. As of December 31, 2020, one tenant in our office portfolio, ViacomCBS Inc., contributed 5.7% of our share of annualized cash rent. No other tenant contributed more than 5.0% of our share of annualized cash rent. No property contributed in excess of 10.0% of our consolidated total revenue for 2020.

At December 31, 2020, we held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $1.1 billion, excluding $0.1 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the Debt and Preferred Equity Investments line item. At December 31, 2020, the assets underlying our debt and preferred equity investments were located in the New York metropolitan area. The primary sources of revenue are generated from interest and fee income.

Human Capital

Our employees are our most important asset. As we navigated through the challenges of COVID-19, we implemented new employee programs and physical office space enhancements to keep employees healthy, safe, and focused. Through the commitment of our employees, we remained operational for all tenants, including the essential businesses that fill our buildings. As a result of strategic changes to our corporate headquarters, along with employee-focused programs guided by employee input, we were the first employer in New York City to be able to return 100% of its employees to the office.

We are dedicated to creating a diverse workplace where employees feel valued and accepted regardless of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, or veteran status. We have a dual-track performance management program, which includes both ongoing goal setting and annual performance reviews for all employees. Communication, teamwork, and collaboration are the fundamental attributes that are the foundation of our company culture. We promote the professional development of our employees by offering opportunities to participate in trainings and continuing 

10
education programs. We also offer a leading benefits package that includes extensive medical coverage, mental health and wellness services, paternal benefits, and financial resources.

Our compensation program is designed to incentivize employees by offering competitive compensation comprised of fixed and variable pay including base salaries and cash bonuses. Several of our employees also receive equity awards that are subject to vesting over a multi-year period based on continued service. We believe these equity awards serve as an additional retention tool for our employees. By cultivating a work culture that prioritizes our people through training, diversity, education, and volunteerism, we have been able to retain a long-tenured staff with 61% of current employees remaining on board for five years or more.

At December 31, 2020, we employed 794 employees, 273 of whom were employed in our corporate offices. There are currently six collective bargaining agreements which cover the union workforce that services substantially all of our properties.

Highlights from 2020

Our significant achievements from 2020 included:

Corporate

•Declared a special dividend paid primarily in stock and authorized a reverse stock split to mitigate the dilutive impact of the special dividend with a ratio of 1.02918-for-1. These transactions were completed in January 2021. All share-related references and measurements in this report including the number of shares outstanding, share prices, number of shares repurchased, earnings per share, dividends per share, and share-based compensation awards, have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split for all periods presented in this Annual Report.

•Repurchased 8.5 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program at an average price of $58.90 per share and increased the size of our share repurchase program by $500 million to $3.5 billion. From program inception through December 31, 2020, we have repurchased a cumulative total of 31.5 million shares of our common stock under the program at an average price of $88.39 per share.

Leasing

•Signed 125 Manhattan office leases covering approximately 1.2 million square feet. The mark-to-market on signed Manhattan office leases was 3.6% lower in 2020 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. 

•Reached 73% leased at One Vanderbilt Avenue as of January 2021 after signing new leases with Walker & Dunlop, LLC; Heidrick & Struggles, International; 1Life Healthcase, Inc. d/b/a One Medical; Hodges Ward Elliot; InTandem Capital Partners; Sagewind Capital LLC; and a financial services firm; as well as a lease expansion with Oak Hill Advisors.

•Signed a lease renewal with Travelers Indeminity Company for 133,479 square feet at 485 Lexington Avenue.

Acquisitions

•Closed on the acquisition of 707 Eleventh Avenue for a gross purchase price of $90.0 million.

•Entered into a 99-year ground lease of 15 Beekman and completed the capitalization of a 100% pre-committed development for Pace University by entering into a partnership with a real estate fund managed by Meritz Alternative Investment Management, which holds an 80% interest in the joint venture, and closing on a $125.0 million construction facility. The Company retained a 20% interest in the joint venture and oversight of the development.

•Took possession of 590 Fifth Avenue at a gross asset valuation of $107.2 million.This property previously served as collateral for a debt and preferred equity investment and was acquired through a negotiated transaction with the sponsor of the investment

Dispositions

•Together with our partners, closed on the sale of 410 Tenth Avenue for gross consideration of $952.5 million.

•Closed on the sale of two retail condominiums in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, for a gross sales price of $32.0 million.

•Closed on the sale of 1055 Washington Boulevard in Stamford, Connecticut, for a gross sales price of $23.8 million.

•Closed on the sale of 1010 Washington Boulevard in Stamford, Connecticut, for a gross sales price of $23.1 million.

•Together with our partner, closed on the sale of 400 East 58th Street for a gross sales price of $62.0 million.

•Closed on the sale of a 49.5% interest in One Madison Avenue to the National Pension Service of Korea and Hines Interest LP. These partners have committed aggregate equity to the project totaling no less than $492.2 million. The 

11
Company and Hines Interest LP will co-develop the $2.3 billion project, which will span 1.4 million rentable square feet upon completion.

•Closed on the sale of the retail condominium at 609 Fifth Avenue for a gross sales price of $168.0 million.

•Closed on the sale of 315 West 33rd Street, known as The Olivia, and an adjacent undeveloped parcel of land, for a sale price of $446.5 million. The transaction included a $100 million preferred equity investment by the Company.

Debt and Preferred Equity Investments

•Originated and retained, or acquired, $0.6 billion in debt and preferred equity investments, inclusive of advances under future funding obligations, discount and fee amortization, and paid-in-kind interest, net of premium amortization, and recorded $1.0 billion of proceeds from sales, repayments and participations.

Finance

•Together with our joint venture partners, closed on a new $1.25 billion construction facility for One Madison Avenue. The facility has a term of up to 6 years and bears interest at a floating rate of 3.35% over LIBOR, with the ability to reduce the spread to as low as 2.50% upon achieving certain pre-leasing and completion milestones.

•Together with our joint venture partner, closed on the early refinancing of 100 Park Avenue. The new $360.0 million mortgage has a term of up to 5 years and bears interest at a floating rate of 2.25% over LIBOR.

•Together with our partners, closed on a new $600.0 million construction facility for 410 Tenth Avenue, replacing the previous $465.0 million construction facility that was put in place in 2019. The Company and its partners subsequently closed on the sale of this property for gross consideration of $952.5 million.

•Closed on a $510.0 million mortgage financing of 220 East 42nd Street, also known as the New Building. The new mortgage has a 3-year term, with two one-year extension options and bears interest at a floating rate of 2.75% per annum over LIBOR.

•Together with our partner, closed on the refinancing of 10 East 53rd Street. The new $220.0 million mortgage replaces the previous $170.0 million mortgage, has a 5-year term, and bears interest at a floating rate of 1.35% over LIBOR.

12
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS