Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect its future results of operations and financial condition. The company manages its exposure to these risks through its regular operating and financing activities. The company has periodically hedged interest rate risks of fixed-rate instruments with offsetting interest rate swaps. Additionally, the company uses short-term forward and option contracts primarily to hedge certain balance sheet and operational exposures resulting from changes in currency exchange rates. Such exposures result from purchases, sales, cash and intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective operations. The currency-exchange contracts principally hedge transactions denominated in Swiss franc, euro, British pounds sterling, Canadian dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen and Czech koruna. Income and losses arising from these derivative contracts are recognized as offsets to losses and income resulting from the underlying exposure being hedged. The company does not enter into speculative derivative agreements.

Interest Rates

The company is exposed to changes in interest rates while conducting normal business operations as a result of ongoing investing and financing activities, which affect the company’s debt as well as cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2020, the company’s debt portfolio was comprised primarily of fixed rate borrowings. The fair market value of the company’s fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The total estimated fair value of the company’s debt at December 31, 2020 was $24.67 billion (Note 14). Fair values were determined from available market prices using current interest rates and terms to maturity. If interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company’s debt at December 31, 2020 would increase by approximately $1.52 billion. If interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, the fair value of the company’s debt at December 31, 2020 would decrease by approximately $1.92 billion.

In addition, interest rate changes would result in a change in the company’s interest expense due to variable-rate debt instruments including swap arrangements. In 2020, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on the swap arrangements and variable-rate debt would have increased the company’s annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $14 million.

Currency Exchange Rates

The company views its investment in international subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar as permanent. The company’s investment in international subsidiaries is sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of the company’s international subsidiaries are principally denominated in euro, British pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Canadian dollars, Swiss franc, Norwegian kroner and Danish kroner. The effect of a change in the period ending currency exchange rates on the company’s net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the “accumulated other comprehensive items” component of shareholders’ equity. The company also uses foreign currency-denominated debt to partially hedge its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in year-end 2020 functional currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, would result in a reduction of shareholders’ equity of approximately $1.22 billion.

The fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of forward currency-exchange contracts is the estimated amount that the company would pay or receive upon termination of the contract, taking into account the change in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in year-end 2020 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company’s contracts would result in an additional unrealized loss on forward currency-exchange contracts of $410 million. A 10% appreciation in year-end 2020 non-functional currency exchange rates related to the company’s contracts would result in an unrealized gain on forward currency-exchange contracts of $348 million. The unrealized gains or losses on forward currency-exchange contracts resulting from changes in currency exchange rates are expected to approximately offset losses or gains on the exposures being hedged.

Certain of the company’s cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the depositor and are sensitive to changes in currency exchange rates. A 10% depreciation in the related year-end 2020 non-functional currency exchange rates applied to such cash balances would result in a negative impact of $18 million on the company’s net income.

33

THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data