Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

EQUITY PRICE RISK.

During the first quarter of 2020, the impact of the global coronavirus pandemic began to rapidly spread throughout the world and caused increasing disruption to populations, economic activity, and the global financial markets. While markets recovered sharply since that time, the impact and ongoing uncertainty related to the pandemic continued into the end of 2020. Since our investments in T. Rowe Price investment products are carried at fair value, these investments are subject to market risk. The following table presents the equity price risk from our investments in T. Rowe Price investment products. Investments in these products generally moderate market risk as they are diversified and invest in a number of different financial instruments. T. Rowe Price manages its cash and discretionary investments exposure to market risk by diversifying its investments among equity and fixed income portfolios. In addition, investment holdings may be altered from time to time in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as management deems appropriate. We do not actively manage the market risk related to our seed capital investments.

In order to quantify the sensitivity of our investments to changes in market valuations, we have chosen to use a variant of each product's net asset value to quantify the equity price risk, as we believe the volatility in each product's net asset value best reflects the underlying risk potential as well as the market trends surrounding each of its investment objectives. The potential future loss of value, before any income tax benefits, of these investments at December 31, 2020 was determined by using the lower of each product’s lowest net asset value per share during 2020 or its net asset value per share at December 31, 2020, reduced by 10%. In considering this presentation, it is important to note that: not all products experienced their lowest net asset value per share on the same day; it is likely that the composition of the investment portfolio would be changed if adverse market conditions persisted; and we could experience future losses in excess of those presented below.

20

Page 48

Table of Contents  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Any losses arising from the change in fair value of investments in T. Rowe Price products would result in a corresponding decrease, net of tax, in our net income attributable to T. Rowe Price Group. 

The direct investment in consolidated T. Rowe Price investment products represents our portion of the net assets of the product. Upon consolidation of these products, our direct investment is eliminated, and the net assets of the products are combined in our consolidated balance sheet, together with redeemable non-controlling interests, which represents the portion of the products that is owned by unrelated third-party investors. Any losses arising from the change in fair value of our direct investments in consolidated T. Rowe Price investment products would also result in a corresponding decrease, net of tax, in our net income attributable to T. Rowe Price Group. 

Further, we have investments that are used to economically hedge the change in our supplementary savings plan liability. Since we are hedging the liability, an impact on our net income attributable to T. Rowe Price Group would result from any ineffectiveness of this economic hedge.

CURRENCY TRANSLATION RISK.

Certain of our investments, including a few consolidated T. Rowe Price investment products, expose us to currency translation risk when the financial statements are translated into U.S. dollars ("USD"). Our most significant exposure relates to the translation of the financial statements of our equity method investment in UTI ($145.5 million at December 31, 2020). UTI's financial statements are denominated in Indian rupees ("INR") and are translated to USD each reporting period. We do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this currency risk, so both positive and negative fluctuations in the INR against the USD will affect accumulated other comprehensive income and the carrying amount of our investment. We had a cumulative translation loss, net of tax, of $43.6 million at December 31, 2020, related to our investment in UTI. Given the nature of UTI’s business, should conditions deteriorate in markets in which they operate, we are at risk for loss up to our carrying amount.

We operate in several countries outside the U.S. of which the United Kingdom is the most prominent. We incur operating expenses and have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than USD associated with these operations, although our revenues are predominately realized in USD. The majority of our currency translation risk on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2020, related to cash and non-consolidated investments of $95.2 million that are denominated in foreign currencies. We do not believe that foreign currency fluctuations materially affect our results of operations.

20

Page 49

Table of Contents  

Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.