ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our primary market exposures are to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as it relates to our market risk sensitive instruments, which are primarily cash, debt and derivative instruments. To quantify our market risk exposure, we perform a sensitivity analysis based on hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We changed our methodology for quantifying our market risk exposure in the second quarter of 2020 to better align with how we manage our risk exposure. Refer to “Note 1: Basis of Presentation and Summary of Accounting Principles,” “Note 10: Borrowings and Lines of Credit” and “Note 15: Financial Instruments” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of foreign currency exchange, interest rates and financial instruments.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk relating to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers in foreign currencies and to various internal or external financing arrangements. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the price risk associated with firmly committed and forecasted foreign denominated payments and receipts related to our ongoing business and financing. We actively manage foreign currency exposures that are associated with committed foreign currency purchases and sales, and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business at the operating unit level. More than insignificant exposures that cannot be naturally offset within an operating unit are hedged with foreign currency derivatives. Foreign exchange exposures arising from intercompany loan and deposit transactions are also hedged regularly. The aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency hedges was $11.6 billion and $13.0 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Foreign currency forward contracts are sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. A 10% unfavorable exchange rate movement in our portfolio of foreign currency contracts would have resulted in an increase in unrealized losses of $0.8 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Such losses or gains would be offset by corresponding gains or losses in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. We believe these foreign currency forward exchange contracts and the offsetting underlying commitments, when taken together, do not create material market risk

Within our aerospace business, our sales are typically denominated in U.S. Dollars. However, for our non-U.S. based entities, such as Pratt & Whitney Canada (P&WC), a substantial portion of their costs are incurred in local currencies. Consequently, there is a foreign currency exchange impact and risk to operational results as U.S. Dollars must be converted to local currencies such as the Canadian Dollar in order to meet local currency cost obligations. Additionally, we transact business in various foreign currencies which exposes our cash flows and earnings to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to minimize the exposure that exists from changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar against these other currencies, we hedge 

63
a certain portion of sales to secure the rates at which U.S. Dollars will be converted. The majority of this hedging activity occurs at P&WC and Collins Aerospace, and hedging activity also occurs to a lesser extent at the remainder of Pratt & Whitney. At P&WC and Collins Aerospace, firm and forecasted sales for both original equipment and spare parts are hedged at varying amounts for up to 49 months on the U.S. Dollar sales exposure as represented by the excess of U.S. Dollar sales over U.S. Dollar denominated purchases. Hedging gains and losses resulting from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially offset by the foreign currency translation impacts that are generated on the translation of local currency operating results into U.S. Dollars for reporting purposes. While the objective of the hedging program is to minimize the foreign currency exchange impact on operating results, there are typically variances between the hedging gains or losses and the translational impact due to the length of hedging contracts, changes in the sales profile, volatility in the exchange rates and other such operational considerations.

Interest Rate Risk. We have financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk, principally fixed-rate debt obligations. A 100 basis points unfavorable interest rate movement would have had an approximate $4 billion impact on the fair value of our fixed-rate debt at both December 31, 2020 and 2019. The investors in our fixed-rate debt obligations do not generally have the right to demand we pay off these obligations prior to maturity. Therefore, exposure to interest rate risk is not believed to be material for our fixed-rate debt. From time to time, we may hedge to floating rates using interest rate swaps. Currently, we do not hold any derivative contracts that hedge our interest exposures, but may consider such strategies in the future.

64
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA