PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

V.F. Corporation, founded in 1899, is one of the world's largest apparel, footwear and accessories companies connecting people to the lifestyles, activities and experiences they cherish most through a family of iconic outdoor, active and workwear brands. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “VF,” the "Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” used herein refer to V.F. Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. All references to "Fiscal 2021" relate to VF's current fiscal year which ran from March 29, 2020 through April 3, 2021.

Unless otherwise noted, all discussion below, including amounts and percentages for all periods, reflect the results of operations and financial condition of VF’s continuing operations. As such, both the Occupational Workwear business that met the held-for-sale and discontinued operations criteria as of March 28, 2020 and the Jeans business subject to the spin-off completed May 22, 2019, have been excluded.

VF’s diverse portfolio meets consumer needs across a broad spectrum of activities and lifestyles. Our ability to connect with consumers, as diverse as our brand portfolio, creates a unique platform for sustainable, long-term growth. Our long-term growth strategy is focused on four strategic choices:

•Drive and optimize our portfolio. Investing in our brands to realize their full potential, while ensuring the composition of our portfolio positions us to win in evolving market conditions;

•Distort investments to Asia. Investing in and scaling our business across the Asia-Pacific region, especially China, to unlock growth opportunities for our brands in this fast-growing region;

•Elevate direct channels. Investing in our direct-to-consumer business to make it the pinnacle expression of our brands, and prioritizing serving consumers through e-commerce and digitally enabled transactions; and,

•Accelerate our consumer-minded, retail-centric, hyper-digital business model transformation. Becoming consumer- and retail-centric to meet and exceed consumers' needs across all channels, and operate our business differently - from the design studio to the factory floor to the point of sale - by thinking and acting more like a vertical retailer.

VF is diversified across brands, product categories, channels of distribution, geographies and consumer demographics. We own a broad portfolio of brands in the outerwear, footwear, apparel, backpack, luggage and accessories categories. Our largest brands are Vans®, The North Face®, Timberland® and Dickies®. 

Our products are marketed to consumers through our wholesale channel, primarily in specialty stores, national chains, mass merchants, department stores, independently-operated partnership stores and with strategic digital partners. Our products are also marketed to consumers through our own direct-to-consumer operations, which include VF-operated stores, concession retail stores, brand e-commerce sites and other digital platforms. Revenues from the direct-to-consumer business represented 45% of VF’s total Fiscal 2021 revenues. In addition to selling directly into international markets, many of our brands also sell products through licensees, agents and distributors. In Fiscal 2021, VF derived 55% of its revenues from the Americas region, 28% from the Europe region and 17% from the Asia-Pacific region.

To provide diversified products across multiple channels of distribution in different geographic areas, we primarily rely on our global sourcing of finished goods from independent contractors. We utilize state-of-the-art supply chain technologies for inventory replenishment that enable us to effectively and efficiently get the right assortment of products that match consumer demand.

VF's chief operating decision maker allocates resources and assesses performance based on a global brand view which represents VF's operating segments. Global brands have been combined into reportable segments based on similar economic characteristics and qualitative factors. The reportable segments for financial reporting purposes have been identified as: Outdoor, Active and Work.

VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K 1
The following table summarizes VF’s brands by reportable segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) VF acquired the Supreme® brand on December 28, 2020.

Financial information regarding VF’s reportable segments is included in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.

OUTDOOR SEGMENT

Our Outdoor segment is a group of authentic outdoor-based lifestyle brands. Product offerings include performance-based and outdoor apparel, footwear and equipment.

The North Face® is the largest brand in our Outdoor segment. The North Face® brand features performance-based apparel, outerwear, sportswear and footwear for men, women and children. Its equipment line includes tents, sleeping bags, backpacks and accessories. Many of The North Face® products are designed for extreme winter sport activities, such as high altitude mountaineering, skiing, snowboarding, and ice and rock climbing. The North Face® products are marketed globally, primarily through specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods stores, department stores, independent distributors, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, over 200 VF-operated stores, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.thenorthface.com.

The Timberland® brand offers outdoor, adventure-inspired lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories that combine performance benefits and versatile styling for men, women and children. We sell Timberland® products globally through chain, department and specialty stores, independent distributors and licensees, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, over 200 VF-operated stores, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.timberland.com.

The Smartwool® brand offers active outdoor consumers a premium, technical layering system of merino wool socks, apparel and accessories that are designed to work together in fit, form and function. Smartwool® products are sold globally through specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods stores,  independent distributors, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.smartwool.com.

The Icebreaker® brand specializes in performance apparel and accessories based on natural fibers, including merino wool and other plant-based fibers. Icebreaker® products are sold globally through specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods stores, independent distributors, over 30 VF-operated stores, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.icebreaker.com.

Altra® is a performance-based footwear brand primarily in the road and trail running categories. Altra® products are sold globally through premium outdoor and specialty stores, independent distributors, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.altrarunning.com.

We expect continued long-term growth in our Outdoor segment as we focus on product innovation, extend our brands into new product categories, grow our direct-to-consumer business including our digital presence, expand wholesale channel partnerships, develop geographically and acquire additional brands.

2 VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K
ACTIVE SEGMENT

Our Active segment is a group of activity-based lifestyle brands. Product offerings include active apparel, footwear, backpacks, luggage and accessories.

Vans® is the largest brand in our Active segment. The Vans® brand offers performance and casual footwear and apparel targeting younger consumers that sit at the center of action sports, art, music and street fashion. Vans® products are available globally through chain stores, specialty stores, independent distributors and licensees, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, more than 700 VF-operated stores, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.vans.com.

The Supreme® brand was acquired by VF on December 28, 2020. Supreme® is a leading streetwear brand that sells apparel, accessories and footwear. Supreme® products are available globally through more than 10 VF-operated stores and online at www.supremenewyork.com.

Kipling® branded handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories are sold globally through department, specialty and luggage stores, independently-operated partnership stores, independent distributors, concession retail stores, more than 60 VF-operated stores, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.kipling.com.

The Napapijri® brand offers outdoor-inspired casual outerwear, sportswear and accessories at a premium price. Products are marketed to men, women and children primarily in Europe. 

Products are sold in department and specialty stores, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, independent distributors, more than 25 VF-operated stores, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.napapijri.com. 

Eastpak® backpacks, travel bags and luggage are sold primarily through department and specialty stores across Europe, on websites with strategic digital partners, throughout Asia by distributors and online at www.eastpak.com.

JanSport® backpacks and accessories are sold in North America, through department, office supply and chain stores, as well as sports specialty stores and independent distributors. JanSport® products are also sold on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.jansport.com.

Eagle Creek® adventure travel gear products include luggage, backpacks and accessories sold through specialty luggage, premium outdoor and department stores primarily in North America, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.eaglecreek.com.

We expect continued long-term growth in our Active segment as we focus on product innovation, extend our brands into new product categories, grow our direct-to-consumer business including our digital presence, expand wholesale channel partnerships, develop geographically and acquire additional brands.

WORK SEGMENT

Our Work segment consists of work and work-inspired lifestyle brands with product offerings that include apparel, footwear and accessories.

Dickies® is the largest brand in our Work segment. The Dickies® brand is a leader in authentic, functional, durable and affordable workwear and has expanded to produce work-inspired, casual-use products. Dickies® products are available globally through mass merchants, specialty stores, independent distributors and licensees, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, 20 VF-operated stores, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.dickies.com. 

The Timberland PRO® brand offers work and work-inspired products that provide comfort, durability and performance. 

Timberland PRO® products are available through specialty stores, chain stores, independent distributors, on websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.timberland.com. Timberland PRO® products are also available in most domestic VF-operated Timberland® stores.

We believe there is a strategic opportunity for growth in our Work segment in both existing and future markets and all channels and geographies by introducing innovative products that address workers’ desires for increased comfort and performance, combined with our increased presence in the retail workwear market and work-inspired lifestyle product offerings.

DIRECT-TO-CONSUMER OPERATIONS

Our direct-to-consumer business includes VF-operated retail stores, brand e-commerce sites, concession retail locations and other digital platforms. Direct-to-consumer revenues were 45% of total VF revenues in Fiscal 2021.

Our full-price retail stores allow us to display a brand’s full line of products with fixtures and imagery that support the brand’s positioning and promise to consumers. These experiences provide high visibility for our brands and products and enable us to stay close to the needs and preferences of our consumers. The complete and impactful presentation of products in our stores also helps to increase sell-through of VF products at our 

wholesale customers due to increased brand awareness, education and visibility. VF-operated full-price stores generally provide gross margins that are well above VF averages.

In addition, VF operates outlet stores in both premium outlet malls and more traditional value-based locations. These outlet stores carry merchandise that is specifically designed for sale in our outlet stores and serve an important role in our overall inventory management and profitability by allowing VF to sell a significant portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products at better prices than otherwise available from outside parties, while maintaining the integrity of our brands.

VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K 3
Our global direct-to-consumer operations included 1,374 stores at the end of Fiscal 2021. We operate retail store locations for the following brands: Vans®, Timberland®, The North Face®, Kipling®, Dickies®, Icebreaker®, Napapijri® and Supreme®. Approximately 56% of our stores are located in the Americas region (49% in the U.S.), 24% in the Europe region and 20% in the Asia-Pacific region. We opened 80 stores, concentrating on the brands with the highest retail growth potential: Vans® and The North Face®, and acquired 12 Supreme® brand stores during Fiscal 2021 . Additionally, we have approximately 900 concession retail stores located principally in Europe and Asia. VF-operated retail stores across the globe were significantly impacted during Fiscal 2021 due to temporary closures for varying periods of time in response to the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic. The majority of VF-operated retail stores were open by the end of the second quarter; however, certain stores reclosed during the third and fourth quarters based on guidance from health advisors and governmental actions and regulations, which primarily impacted the Europe region and North America. At the end of Fiscal 2021, approximately 60% of VF-operated retail stores were closed in the Europe region and less than 5% of stores were closed in North America. In the Asia-Pacific region, nearly all VF-operated retail stores remained open. 

E-commerce represented approximately 50% of our direct-to-consumer business in Fiscal 2021. All VF brands are marketed online. We continue to expand our e-commerce initiatives by rolling out additional, country-specific brand sites in Europe and Asia, which enhances our ability to deliver a superior, localized consumer experience. We also continue to increase focus on digital innovation and growth across other third-party digital platforms. Changes in the retail landscape resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic have accelerated our e-commerce growth. 

We expect our direct-to-consumer business to continue growing as we accelerate our consumer-minded, retail-centric, hyper-digital business model transformation.

In addition to our direct-to-consumer operations, independent parties own and operate approximately 2,900 partnership stores. These are primarily mono-brand retail locations selling VF products that have the appearance of VF-operated stores. Most of these partnership stores are located in Europe and Asia, and are concentrated in the Timberland®, The North Face®, Vans®, Dickies®, Kipling® and Napapijri® brands.

LICENSING ARRANGEMENTS

As part of our strategy of expanding market penetration of VF-owned brands, we enter into licensing agreements with independent parties for specific apparel and complementary product categories when such arrangements provide more effective manufacturing, distribution and marketing than could be achieved internally. We provide support to these business partners and ensure the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of licensed products.

Licensing arrangements relate to a broad range of VF brands and are for fixed terms of generally 3 to 5 years, with conditional renewal options. Each licensee pays royalties to VF based on its sales of licensed products, with most agreements providing for a minimum royalty requirement. Royalties generally range from 4% to 10% of the licensing partners’ net licensed products sales. Royalty income was $51.7 million in Fiscal 2021 (less than 1% of total revenues), primarily from the Vans®, Dickies® and Timberland® brands. 

MANUFACTURING, SOURCING AND DISTRIBUTION

Product design and innovation, including fit, fabric, finish and quality, are important elements across our businesses. These functions are performed by employees located in our global supply chain organization and our branded business units across the globe.

VF’s centralized global supply chain organization is responsible for producing, procuring and delivering products to our customers. VF is highly skilled in managing the complexities associated with our global supply chain. In Fiscal 2021, VF sourced or produced approximately 295 million units spread across our brands. Our products were primarily obtained from approximately 265 independent contractor manufacturing facilities in approximately 36 countries. Additionally, we operate 29 distribution centers and 1,374 retail stores. Managing this complexity is made possible by the use of a network of information systems for product development, forecasting, order management and warehouse management, along with our core enterprise resource management platforms.

In Fiscal 2021, 96% of our units were obtained from independent contractors. Products obtained from contractors in the Western Hemisphere generally have a higher cost than products obtained from contractors in Asia. However, contracting in the Western Hemisphere gives us greater flexibility, shorter lead times and allows for lower inventory levels for the U.S. market. The use of 

contracted production with different geographic regions and cost structures, provides a flexible approach to product sourcing. We will continue to manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment.

Independent contractors generally own the raw materials and ship finished, ready-for-sale products to VF. These contractors are engaged through VF sourcing hubs in Hong Kong (with satellite offices across Asia) and Panama. These hubs are responsible for managing the manufacturing and procurement of product, supplier oversight, product quality assurance, sustainability within the supply chain, responsible sourcing and transportation and shipping functions. In addition, our hubs leverage proprietary knowledge and technology to enable certain contractors to more effectively control costs and improve labor efficiency. 

Management continually monitors political risks and developments related to duties, tariffs and quotas. We limit VF’s sourcing exposure through, among other measures: (i) diversifying production among countries and contractors, (ii) sourcing production to merchandise categories where product is readily available, and (iii) sourcing from countries with tariff preference and free trade agreements. VF does not directly 

4 VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K
or indirectly source products from suppliers in countries that are prohibited by the U.S. State Department.

No single supplier represented more than 7% of our total cost of goods sold during Fiscal 2021.

The independent contractor facilities that manufacture VF products, must comply with VF’s Global Compliance Principles. These principles, established in 1997 and consistent with international labor standards, are a set of strict standards covering legal and ethical business practices, worker age, work hours, health and safety conditions, environmental standards and compliance with local laws and regulations.

VF, through its contractor monitoring program, audits the activities of the independent businesses and contractors that produce VF products at locations across the globe. Each of the approximately 265 independent contractor facilities, including those serving our independent licensees, must be pre-certified before producing VF products. This pre-certification includes passing a factory inspection and signing a VF Terms of Engagement agreement. We maintain an ongoing audit program to ensure compliance with these requirements by using dedicated internal staff and externally contracted firms. Additional information about VF’s Code of Business Conduct, Global Compliance Principles, Terms of Engagement and Environmental Compliance Guidelines, along with a Global Compliance Report, is available on the VF website at www.vfc.com.

In response to COVID-19, VF has actively worked with its suppliers to minimize disruption while complying with local health advisories and governmental restrictions. VF did not experience significant difficulty in fulfilling its raw material and contracting production needs during Fiscal 2021. Absent any material changes, VF believes it would be able to largely offset any increases in product costs through (i) the continuing shift in the mix of its business to higher margin brands, geographies and channels of distribution, (ii) increases in the prices of its products, and (iii) cost reduction efforts. The loss of any one supplier or contractor would not have a significant adverse effect on our business.

Product is shipped from our independent suppliers to distribution centers around the world. In some instances, product is shipped directly to our customers. Most distribution centers are operated by VF, and some support more than one brand. A portion of our distribution needs are met by contract distribution centers. In response to COVID-19, VF's distribution centers have maintained operations in accordance with local government guidelines while maintaining enhanced health and safety protocols. 

Our largest fully operational distribution centers by region are located in Visalia, California, Prague, Czech Republic and Shanghai, China. In total, we operate 29 owned or leased distribution centers primarily in the U.S., but also in the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, Canada, Mexico, Israel, Japan and France.

SEASONALITY

VF’s quarterly operating results vary due to the seasonality of our individual brands, and are historically stronger in the second half of the calendar year. This variation results primarily from the seasonal influences on revenues of our Outdoor segment, where revenues are historically weighted towards the second and third fiscal quarters. Our Fiscal 2021 results were also significantly impacted by COVID-19, which resulted in temporary store closures, reduced traffic and changes in consumer behavior. With changes in our mix of business and the growth of our retail operations, historical quarterly revenue and profit trends may not be indicative of future trends.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital typically increases early in the calendar year as inventory builds to support peak shipping periods and then moderates later in the year as those inventories are sold and accounts receivable are collected. Historically, cash provided by operating activities is substantially higher in the second half of the calendar year due to higher net income during that period and reduced working capital requirements, particularly during the fourth quarter of the calendar year.

ADVERTISING, CUSTOMER SUPPORT AND COMMUNITY OUTREACH

During Fiscal 2021, our advertising and promotion expense was $608.1 million, representing 7% of total revenues. We advertise in consumer and trade publications, on radio and television and through digital initiatives including social media and mobile platforms on the Internet. We also participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with major retailers in print and digital media, radio and television. We sponsor sporting, musical and special events, as well as athletes and personalities who promote our products. We employ marketing sciences to optimize the impact of advertising and promotional spending, and to identify the types of spending that provide the greatest return on our marketing investments.

We provide advertising support to our wholesale customers, including independent partnership stores, in the form of point-of-sale fixtures and signage to enhance the presentation and brand image of our products. We also participate in shop-in-shops and concession retail arrangements, which are separate 

sales areas dedicated to a specific VF brand within our customers' stores and other locations, to help differentiate and enhance the presentation of our products.

We contribute to incentive programs with our wholesale customers, including cooperative advertising funds, discounts and allowances. We also offer sales incentive programs directly to consumers in the form of discounts, rebates and coupon offers that are eligible for use in certain VF-operated stores, brand e-commerce sites and concession retail locations.

In addition to sponsorships and activities that directly benefit our products and brands, VF and its associates actively support our communities and various charities. For example, The North Face® brand has committed to programs that encourage and enable outdoor participation, such as The North Face Endurance Challenge® and The North Face Explore Fund™ programs. The Timberland® brand has a strong heritage of volunteerism, including the Path of Service™ program that offers full-time 

VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K 5
employees up to 40 hours of paid time off a year to serve their local communities through global service events such as Earth Day in the spring and Serv-a-palooza in the fall. The Vans® brand has hosted Vans® Gives Back Day events in which all employees at the brand's headquarters spend the day volunteering in the community. In Fiscal 2021, Vans® "Foot The Bill" program 

partnered with local and community-driven skate shops, restaurants, art galleries and music venues to design Vans® custom footwear. The net proceeds from the sale of each pair of the custom shoes went directly to small business partners in this critical time of need.

SUSTAINABILITY

VF is one of the world’s largest apparel, footwear and accessories companies. As such, we have both an opportunity and responsibility to make a positive impact on our industry and planet through advancing sustainable business practices. VF plans to achieve significant progress in several key areas of sustainability, including people, the planet, our products, the supply chain, raw materials and facilities, to create a positive global impact.

VF’s Sustainability & Responsibility strategy, Made for Change, targets three key pillars to drive transformational change and create value for our business. The strategy is focused on new circular and sustainable business models to (i) harness retail opportunities in new sectors, (ii) scale foundational social and environmental programs to lead the industry toward greater progress at a faster rate, and (iii) empower our brands, associates, and consumers to act with purpose and impact with intention.

VF has committed to measurably improve the lives of two million supply chain workers and others within their communities, by 2030. As a result, VF launched the Worker and Community Development Program with strategic initiatives focused on (i) water and sanitation, (ii) health and nutrition, and (iii) childcare and education. We are also prioritizing transparency to ensure our global supply chain improves the lives of people and the planet. VF maintains traceability maps to demonstrate the end-to-end (farm-to-front door) traceability of nine iconic VF-brand products. In Fiscal 2021, VF increased the number of published maps, and will continue to scale traceability efforts and enhance visibility across all VF brands. 

Aligned with our scale for good ideology, VF has some of the industry’s most ambitious science-based targets. VF’s science-based carbon emissions targets include (i) an absolute reduction of Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions of 55% by 2030, from a 2017 baseline year; and, (ii) an absolute reduction of Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions of 30% by 2030, from a 2017 baseline year focusing on farm-to-retail materials, sourcing operations and logistics.

Dedication to continued sustainability progress is particularly focused in the realm of VF product raw materials. VF’s goal is to source 50% recycled nylon and polyester for products by 2025, with a targeted 35% reduction in negative impact of key materials. VF has also pledged to not use fur in any of our 

products, in support of its Animal Derived Materials & Forest Derived Materials policies. The Company has a sustainable materials vision which outlines a clear path for environmental impact reduction through its commitment that 100% of its top nine materials, which account for approximately 90% of its materials-related carbon emissions, will originate from regenerative, responsibly sourced renewable, or recycled sources by 2030. In addition, during Fiscal 2021 we announced our goal to eliminate all single-use plastic packaging, including polybags, by 2025. From that point on, all remaining non-plastic packaging used by VF and our brands would originate from sustainable sources and be designed for reuse or recyclability.

VF has set goals for internal facilities that include (i) the sourcing of 100% of electricity from renewable sources within VF-owned and operated facilities by 2025, in line with the enterprise commitment to RE100, and (ii) achieving Zero Waste at 100% of VF internal distribution center locations during Fiscal 2022. 

In Fiscal 2021, VF formed strategic partnerships with several international organizations to advance rooftop solar installations and energy efficiency improvement projects across the supply chain. Currently, various strategic suppliers are participating in one of VF’s several partner programs that facilitate technical and financial resources to improve operational efficiency and transition to renewable energy. 

VF issued a €500.0 million green bond in Fiscal 2020, the first in the apparel and footwear industry. VF published its Green Bond Impact Report in February 2021, demonstrating full allocation of the net proceeds to eligible sustainability projects that deliver progress toward the achievement of VF’s sustainability goals including its science-based targets. 

VF brands are equally committed to sustainability action in their sectors. In Fiscal 2021, the Timberland® brand launched an industry-first regenerative leather boot. The North Face® brand expanded its iconic Base Camp Duffel line made with 100% recycled fabrics and webbing. The North Face® brand also expanded its 'Renewed' program by introducing ‘Remade’, a collection of upcycled garments, allowing customers to purchase one-of-a-kind products. The recommerce model addresses one of the apparel industry’s biggest challenges, textile waste, and offers our products at a lower price point, which allows new consumers to experience our brands.

6 VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K
HUMAN CAPITAL

As a purpose-led, performance-driven enterprise, VF leverages the strength of our business to drive profitable growth and create value for our shareholders and our stakeholders. Our purpose is to power movements of sustainable and active lifestyles for the betterment of people and our planet. This purpose, combined with a focus on delivering on our commitments, allows us to offer a unique value proposition to our associates – a place where you can do good and do well at the same time. Our human capital management strategy focuses on ensuring that we attract, develop and retain diverse talent through practices that promote inclusion, diversity and equity; development opportunities for associates across the organization; competitive rewards and benefits; and programs that support wellbeing in an engaging work environment built on enduring guiding principles and values. We also believe that having an engaged, diverse and committed workforce not only enhances our culture but also drives our business success. Initiatives to promote overall alignment with our purpose, guiding principles and strategy are therefore important and include extensive internal communications and education about our programs, interactive townhalls across various parts of our business, and a listening strategy that engages associates in providing input and feedback on a variety of topics.

Our Board of Directors and its Committees provide governance and oversight on a broad range of VF’s human capital management efforts. The Board’s oversight includes review of CEO and executive officer performance, compensation and succession planning and inclusion, diversity and belonging programs and initiatives. The Talent and Compensation Committee works with management on executive compensation and compensation risks, and regularly reviews inclusion and diversity, benefits, wellbeing, culture, and talent development strategies. VF’s Audit Committee monitors current and emerging risks, including human capital management risks, and VF’s health and safety program. The Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible for conducting Director succession planning and the selection of Director nominees, and reviews VF’s Code of Business Conduct and VF’s sustainability policies, goals and programs. These Committees report and provide recommendations to the Board and are part of the broader framework that guides how VF attracts, develops, and retains a workforce that aligns with VF’s values and supports its strategies. In addition, VF’s Executive Leadership Team is regularly engaged in the development and management of key talent systems, guiding our culture, employee value proposition and talent development programs.

Examples of our key programs and initiatives that are focused to achieve our objectives include:

Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, Action (IDEA)

IDEA is fundamental to our business and we aim to sustain a workplace that celebrates the diversity of our associates. We strive to provide an environment that allows our associates to bring their authentic selves to work every day, and we’re determined to foster a workplace that is free of discrimination and harassment, and promotes allyship, advocacy and belonging. Our Global Inclusion, Diversity and Equity Council sets global goals and strategic direction in alignment with VF’s global IDEA strategy. Our Council to Advance Racial Equity (“CARE”) has committed to assisting in actions that promote, among other things; 1) increasing Black, Indigenous and People 

of Color (“BIPOC”) associate representation within director and above roles in the U.S.; 2) diverse candidate slates; 3) pay equity; 4) leader compensation tied to successful implementation of our IDEA strategy; 5) mentorship and sponsorship of BIPOC employees and members of the community; and 6) elevating our commitment to education, listening and learning. These actions are consistent and aligned with VF’s IDEA Statement, committing to equal opportunity for all employees and candidates. At the end of Fiscal 2021, approximately 16% of our U.S. workforce within director and above roles voluntarily self-identified as BIPOC. 

VF is a member of the Paradigm for Parity coalition, which has pledged to promote organizational gender parity globally by 2030. At the end of Fiscal 2021, nearly 55% of the overall VF workforce and approximately 40% of director and above roles voluntarily self-identified as women. VF aims to remove barriers to uplifting women and has added and expanded resources to support women in the workplace, including career advancement workshops, community building activities through our Employee Resource Groups (“ERGs”), and a suite of benefits designed to promote wellbeing and provide support for parents and families.

Our dedication to inclusion and diversity is further reflected in programs sponsored by our ERGs. Our ERGs enhance our culture of belonging by creating a safe space for learning and dialogue about underrepresented groups, establishing a sense of community among associates and providing platforms to collect and share insights to support business imperatives. We currently have various ERGs for women, BIPOC, Veterans and LGBTQ+ communities. VF is committed to maximizing inclusion, diversity and equity not only within the company, but within the communities where we live and work, while also being a positive influence within the apparel and footwear sector, and society at large.

Culture, Talent Management and Engagement

Our culture is built on our five Guiding Principles: Live with Integrity, Act with Empathy, Be Curious, Persevere, and Act Courageously. We have codified this culture through the lens of “what we do”, “what we see” and “how we feel”, and we measure our culture and Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) via semi-annual surveys. Results are evaluated, shared with associates and used to guide management focus and attention. Recently, actions have included enhanced training and resources for managing in a distributed workplace and aid for managers with coaching and supporting associates through the COVID-19 pandemic. VF also conducts periodic pulse check surveys for interim feedback on specific topics such as ethics & compliance, safety, and remote/flexible work.

Talent management includes the acquisition, development, skilling and upskilling, and deployment of our talent. We utilize a range of tools and programs including diverse candidate slates, talent reviews, performance coaching and development, succession planning, access to volunteering opportunities, IDEA training and hundreds of online learning modules that are available to all associates.

VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K 7
Associate Wellbeing and Safety

VF endeavors to support the diverse wellbeing needs of our associates and their families. We define wellbeing as not only physical health, but also emotional, social, financial and career wellbeing. We offer a comprehensive and competitive benefits program to our full-time associates that is designed to provide choices and flexibility to meet their needs now and in the future. These include health & welfare programs, retirement programs, paid parental leave, adoption assistance, paid time off, tuition reimbursement, product discounts, fitness facilities or programs, childcare and educational resources and various on-site services, employee assistance program, and regular wellbeing programming as culturally appropriate throughout the geographies in which we operate.

Associate Safety rests at the heart of our decisions. Nothing is more fundamental than providing people with an environment where they feel safe, secure and supported. Our mission is simple: Foster a culture of safety that enables a workplace free of hazards and sends every employee home safely. Our goal is zero workplace injuries within our operations. We’re using our scale, influence and insight to help establish safe, stable working environments in the factories producing our products, while simultaneously improving the lives of those in local communities beyond the factory walls.

Ethics and Compliance

VF’s Code of Business Conduct sets forth business policies and principles for all directors, officers and associates of VF. The key principles of our code are as follows: we will lead with integrity; we will treat everyone with dignity and respect; we will compete fairly and honestly; we will follow the law everywhere we do business; and we will strive to make our communities better. Our global Ethics & Compliance program provides VF associates with the tools they need to understand our expectations for ethical business conduct and the courage to speak up and raise concerns without fear of retaliation.

A discussion of VF’s human capital management response to COVID-19 is included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. 

Employees

VF had approximately 40,000 employees at the end of Fiscal 2021. Of VF's total employees, approximately 68% were full-time and approximately 49% were located in the U.S. In international markets, certain employees are covered by trade-sponsored or governmental bargaining arrangements. Employee relations are considered to be good.

OTHER MATTERS

Competitive Factors

Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer demand for VF’s brands and products. VF is well-positioned to compete in the apparel, footwear and accessories sector by developing high quality, innovative products at competitive prices that meet consumer needs, providing high service levels, ensuring the right products are on the retail sales floor to meet consumer demand, investing significant amounts into existing brands and managing our brand portfolio through acquisitions and dispositions. Many of VF’s brands have long histories and enjoy strong recognition within their respective consumer segments.

Intellectual Property

Trademarks, trade names, patents and domain names, as well as related logos, designs and graphics, provide substantial value in the development and marketing of VF’s products, and are important to our continued success. We have registered this intellectual property in the U.S. and in other countries where our products are manufactured and/or sold. We vigorously monitor and enforce VF’s intellectual property against counterfeiting, infringement and violations of other rights where and to the extent legal, feasible and appropriate. In addition, we grant licenses to other parties to manufacture and sell products utilizing our intellectual property in product categories and geographic areas in which VF does not operate.

Customers

VF products are sold on a wholesale basis to specialty stores, mid-tier and traditional department stores, national chains and mass merchants. In addition, we sell products on a direct-to-consumer basis through VF-operated stores, concession retail stores, brand e-commerce sites and other digital platforms. Our sales in international markets are growing and represented 50% of our total revenues in the year ended March 2021, the majority of which were in Europe.

Sales to VF’s ten largest customers amounted to approximately 16% of total revenues in Fiscal 2021. Sales to the five largest customers amounted to approximately 10% of total revenues in Fiscal 2021. Sales to VF’s largest customer totaled approximately 2% of total revenues in Fiscal 2021.

Backlog

The dollar amount of VF’s order backlog as of any date may not be indicative of actual future shipments and, accordingly, is not material to an understanding of the business taken as a whole.

8 VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of May 27, 2021. The executive officers are generally elected annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of the VF Corporation executive officers have any family relationship with one another or with any of the directors of VF Corporation.

Steven E. Rendle, 61, has been Executive Chairman of the Board since October 2017, President and Chief Executive Officer of VF since January 2017 and a Director of VF since June 2015. Mr. Rendle served as President and Chief Operating Officer from June 2015 to December 2016, Senior Vice President — Americas from April 2014 until June 2015, Vice President and Group President — Outdoor & Action Sports Americas from May 2011 until April 2014, President of VF’s Outdoor Americas businesses from 2009 to 2011, President of The North Face® brand from 2004 to 2009 and Vice President of Sales of The North Face® brand from 1999 to 2004. Mr. Rendle joined VF in 1999.

Scott A. Roe, 56, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of VF since March 2019. He served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of VF from April 2015 to February 2019, Vice President — Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of VF from February 2013 until March 2015, Vice President — Finance of VF from 2012 to 2013, Vice President — Chief Financial Officer of VF International from 2006 to 2012 and Vice President — Chief Financial Officer of VF’s former intimate apparel business from 2002 to 2006. Mr. Roe joined VF in 1996.

Kevin D. Bailey, 60, has been Executive Vice President and President, APAC and Emerging Brands since August 2020. He served as Executive Vice President and Group President, APAC and Vans from January 2017 until December 2017, President Action Sports & VF CASA from March 2016 to December 2016, President Action Sports & the Vans® brand from April 2014 to February 2016, Global President of the Vans® brand from June 2009 to March 2014 and Vice President Direct-to-Consumer for the Vans® brand from June 2002 to November 2007. Mr. Bailey joined VF in 2004.

Martino Scabbia Guerrini, 56, has been Executive Vice President and Group President — EMEA since January 2018. He served as President — VF EMEA from April 2017 until December 2017, Coalition President — Jeanswear, Sportswear and Contemporary International from January 2013 to November 2017, President — Sportswear and Contemporary EMEA from February 2009 to December 2012 and President — Sportswear and Packs from August 2006 to January 2009. Mr. Guerrini joined VF in 2006.

Bryan H. McNeill, 59, has been Vice President — Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since April 2015. He served as Controller and Supply Chain Chief Financial Officer of VF International from January 2012 until March 2015 and Controller of VF International from May 2010 until December 2011. Mr. McNeill joined VF in 1993.

Laura C. Meagher, 61, has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since March 2019. She served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2012 to February 2019. She served as Vice President — Deputy General Counsel from 2008 to 2012 and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2008. Ms. Meagher joined VF in 2004.

Stephen M. Murray, 60, has been Executive Vice President and Group Brand President, The North Face since October 2020. He served as Executive Vice President — Strategic Projects from April 2018 until October 2019 and as Group President, American from October 2019 until October 2020. Earlier in his career, he served as President — Action Sports Coalition from 2009 until 2010 and President of the Vans® brand from August 2004 until 2009. Mr. Murray originally joined VF in 2004.

Additional information is included under the caption “Election of Directors” in VF’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held July 27, 2021 (“2021 Proxy Statement”) that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended April 3, 2021, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

All periodic and current reports, registration statements and other filings that VF has filed or furnished to the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) and on VF’s website at www.vfc.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports may also be obtained free of charge upon written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 13919, Denver, CO 80201.

The following corporate governance documents can be accessed on VF’s website: VF’s Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Talent and Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee. Copies of these documents also may be obtained by any shareholder free of charge upon written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 13919, Denver, CO 80201.

After VF’s 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, VF intends to file with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the certification regarding VF’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as required by NYSE Rule 303A.12. Last year, VF filed this certification with the NYSE on August 26, 2020.

VF Corporation Fiscal 2021 Form 10-K 9
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.