EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

Contact: Leah Stearns  

Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Investor Relations  

Telephone: (617) 375-7500  

AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION ANNOUNCES PROPOSED CONCURRENT PUBLIC  

OFFERING OF COMMON STOCK AND MANDATORY CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

Boston, Massachusetts – February 24, 2015: American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that, in connection with the funding of its transaction with Verizon Communications, Inc., whereby American Tower will lease, acquire or otherwise operate and manage up to 11,489 Verizon wireless communications sites, American Tower intends to offer 23,500,000 shares of its common stock and 12,500,000 depositary shares, each representing a 1/10th interest in a share of American Tower’s Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B, in concurrent registered public offerings, subject to market and other conditions. These offerings are separate public offerings made by means of separate prospectus supplements and are not contingent on each other or upon consummation of the Verizon transaction.  

American Tower expects to use the net proceeds from these offerings, together with cash on hand and borrowings under its revolving credit facilities, to finance the recently announced Verizon transaction and to pay related fees and expenses.  

If for any reason the Verizon transaction is not completed, American Tower expects to use the net proceeds from these equity offerings for general corporate purposes, which may include the financing of the TIM Celular S.A. and Bharti Airtel International (Netherlands) BV transactions (which it would otherwise fund through a combination of cash on hand, borrowings under its credit facilities and other debt financing) or repaying existing indebtedness. American Tower intends to grant the underwriters the option to purchase up to an additional 2,350,000 shares common stock and up to an additional 1,250,000 depositary shares, each to cover over-allotments, if any.  

Goldman, Sachs & Co. is acting as lead book-running manager for both the common stock and the depositary shares offerings. BofA Merrill Lynch, Barclays, Citigroup and J.P. Morgan are also acting as joint book-running managers with respect to the common stock offering, and RBC Capital Markets, Morgan Stanley, RBS Securities Inc. and TD Securities are also acting as joint book-running managers with respect to the depositary shares offering.  

This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction. The offerings are being made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Each offering will be made only by means of a prospectus supplement relating to such offering and the accompanying base prospectus, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.  

Alternatively, you may request the documents relating to the common stock offering by contacting Goldman, Sachs & Co. at 1-866-471-2526, BofA Merrill Lynch at 222 Broadway, New York, New York 10038, Attn: Prospectus Department or by emailing dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com, Barclays at 1-888-603-5847, Citigroup at 1-800-831-9146 and J.P. Morgan at 1-866-803-9204.  

You may request the documents relating to the depositary shares offering by contacting Goldman, Sachs & Co. at 1-866-471-2526, RBC Capital Markets at 1-877-822-4089, Morgan Stanley at 1-866-718-1649, RBS at 1-866-884-2071 and TD Securities at 1-800-263-5292.  

About American Tower  

American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of communications real estate with a global portfolio of over 75,000 communications sites.  

Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or “forward-looking statements,” all of which are inherently uncertain. American Tower has based those forward-looking statements on management’s current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, American Tower’s ability to complete each offering, the anticipated closing of the Verizon transaction, the anticipated use of proceeds from the offerings and the expectations for funding the TIM and Airtel transactions. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include prevailing market conditions and other factors. For more information about potential risk factors that could affect American Tower and its results, we refer you to the information contained in the respective prospectus supplements for these offerings and Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 under the caption “Risk Factors” and in other filings American Tower makes with the SEC. American Tower undertakes no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.  

# # #