cigna8k.htm      

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) February 25, 2015 

Cigna Corporation 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

900 Cottage Grove Road 

Bloomfield, Connecticut 06002 

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 

(860) 226-6000 

Not Applicable 

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

  [ ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

  [ ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

  [ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

  [ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))    

  Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors’ Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.    

On February 25, 2015, Joseph P. Sullivan retired from the Board of Directors of Cigna Corporation (“Cigna” or the “Company”). Mr. Sullivan’s retirement was consistent with the Board’s mandatory age retirement policy and was not the result of any disagreement with the Company. 

In connection with Mr. Sullivan’s retirement, the Board, as permitted by the Company’s bylaws, reduced the number of directors on the Board from twelve to eleven, effective immediately. 

  Item 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure.    

Cigna officials expect to participate in meetings and events with investors and analysts over the next several weeks. During these meetings, Company officials expect to reaffirm projected full year 2015 consolidated adjusted income from operations, which remains in the range of $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion. 

Cigna discussed its full year 2015 outlook in its press release dated February 5, 2015 and during the related investor conference call. The release and the conference call transcript are available under Quarterly Reports and SEC Filings in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website located at www.cigna.com/aboutcigna/investors. 

Adjusted income from operations (loss) is defined as segment earnings (loss) excluding (i) special items; (ii) the results of Cigna's guaranteed minimum income benefits business; and (iii) amortization of other intangible assets. Segment earnings (loss) is defined as shareholders’ net income (loss) before net realized investment results. Adjusted income from operations is a measure of profitability used by Cigna’s management because it presents the underlying results of operations of Cigna’s businesses and permits analysis of trends in underlying revenue, expenses and shareholders’ net income. This measure is not determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and should not be viewed as a substitute for the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which are segment earnings (loss) on a segment basis and shareholders’ net income on a consolidated basis. Management is unable to provide a forward-looking reconciliation of adjusted income from operations to shareholders’ net income for full year 2015 since future net realized investment results and special items cannot be identified or reasonably estimated at this time. 

This information shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date of this report, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. 

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 

This Current Report on Form 8-K (the “Report”), and oral statements made with respect to information contained in this Report, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on Cigna's current expectations and projections about future trends, events and uncertainties. These statements are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, statements relating to our projected full year 2015 consolidated adjusted income from operations as reflected in Item 7.01 of this Report, as well as statements made in our press release dated February 5, 2015 and related investor conference call concerning: statements concerning our projected adjusted income (loss) from operations outlook for 2015, on both a consolidated and segment basis; projected consolidated revenue growth and global medical customer growth, each over year end 2014; projected medical care and operating expense ratios; future financial or operating performance, including our ability to deliver personalized and innovative solutions for our customers and clients and future growth, business strategy, strategic or operational initiatives; economic, regulatory or competitive environments, particularly with respect to the pace and extent of change in these areas; and financing or capital deployment plans, including whether and to what extent we may engage in share repurchases. You may identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “believe”, “expect”, “plan”, “intend”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “predict”, “potential”, “may”, “should”, “will” or other words or expressions of similar meaning, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. 

Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: our ability to achieve our financial, strategic and operational plans or initiatives; our ability to predict and manage medical costs and price effectively and develop and maintain good relationships with physicians, hospitals and other health care providers; our ability to identify potential strategic acquisitions or transactions and realize the expected benefits of such transactions; the substantial level of government regulation over our business and the potential effects of new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations; the outcome of litigation, regulatory audits, investigations and actions and/or guaranty fund assessments; uncertainties surrounding participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare; and unfavorable industry, economic or political conditions, as well as more specific risks and uncertainties discussed in our most recent report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K available on the Investor Relations section of www.cigna.com. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance or results, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Cigna undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. 

SIGNATURE 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]