Exhibit 99.1  

 E*Trade Financial Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Results  

 Company receives regulatory approvals to operate E*TRADE Bank at 9.0 percent Tier 1 leverage ratio, 

and move broker-dealers out from under E*TRADE Bank  

 Company to dividend excess capital at broker-dealers of approximately $430 million to parent in Q1  

 NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 22, 2015--E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ:ETFC):  

 Fourth Quarter Results   

 Net income of $41 million, or $0.14 per share  

 Net income of $78 million(1), or $0.26 per share(1) excluding a $59 million pre-tax loss related to the early extinguishment of corporate debt  

 Total net revenue of $461 million  

 Total operating expenses of $294 million  

 Provision for loan losses of $10 million  

 Corporate cash of $233 million(2), including a dividend from the bank of $75 million and use of approximately $460 million to pay down and refinance corporate debt  

 Daily Average Revenue Trades (DARTs) of 168,000  

 End of period margin receivables of $7.7 billion  

 Net new brokerage accounts of 17,000; annualized attrition rate of 9.1 percent  

 Net new brokerage assets of $3.5 billion; end of period customer assets of $290 billion   

 Full Year 2014 Results   

 Net income of $293 million, or $1.00 per share; net income of $330 million(1), or $1.12 per share(1) excluding a $59 million pre-tax loss related to the early extinguishment of corporate debt  

 Total net revenue of $1.8 billion  

 Total operating expenses of $1.1 billion  

 Provision for loan losses of $36 million  

 Dividends of $300 million from the bank to the parent  

 DARTs of 168,000  

 Net new brokerage accounts of 146,000  

 Net new brokerage assets of $10.9 billion, a Company record   

 E*TRADE Financial Corporation (NASDAQ:ETFC) today announced results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2014, reporting net income of $41 million, or $0.14 per share. Excluding a $59 million pre-tax loss on early extinguishment of corporate debt, net income would have been $78 million(1), or $0.26 per share(1). This compares with net income of $86 million, or $0.29 per share in the prior quarter, and $58 million, or $0.20 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013. Total net revenue of $461 million increased from $440 million in the prior quarter and $446 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.  

 The Company also announced that it has received regulatory approval to:   

 Operate E*TRADE Bank at a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 9.0 percent; and  

 Realign its organizational structure by moving its two broker-dealers (E*TRADE Securities and E*TRADE Clearing) from under E*TRADE Bank, which will simplify the distribution of capital generated by those entities to the parent.   

 E*TRADE Securities will be moved in early February, while the move of E*TRADE Clearing is expected to be completed later in the year. The approval to move these subsidiaries allows the Company to distribute approximately $430 million of their excess capital to the parent.  

 “This was a momentous year for E*TRADE,” said Paul Idzik, Chief Executive Officer. “Our unwavering commitment to our customers produced tremendous results as our brokerage business reached multi-year highs in customer trades and net new brokerage accounts, and all-time records in net new brokerage assets, account retention, margin receivables, and managed assets. We also made exceptional progress de-risking the firm and executing on our capital plan – highlighted by the sale of a high-risk portion of our loan portfolio, the sale of a non-core business, and consistent regulatory approvals for dividends from our bank, culminating in the pay down of $400 million of corporate debt. Entering 2015, our progress continues with approvals from our regulators – enabling us to operate the bank at a lower Tier 1 leverage ratio, remove our broker-dealers from under the bank, and distribute their excess capital to the parent. All are important votes of confidence, and underscore the company’s noteworthy progress. As a team, we are excited about what lies ahead of us and are eager to seize new opportunities in the coming year.”  

 E*TRADE reported DARTs of 168,000 during the quarter, an increase of 10 percent from the prior quarter and an increase of five percent versus the same quarter a year ago. DARTs for the full year were also 168,000, up from 151,000 in 2013.  

 The Company ended the quarter with 3.1 million brokerage accounts, an increase of 17,000 from the prior quarter. This compared with 24,000 net new brokerage accounts in the prior quarter and 22,000 in the fourth quarter of 2013. For the full year, the Company added 146,000 net new brokerage accounts. Brokerage account attrition for the fourth quarter was 9.1 percent annualized. For the full year, attrition was 8.7 percent, representing a slight improvement from 8.8 percent in 2013.  

 The Company ended the quarter with $290 billion in total customer assets, compared with $282 billion at the end of the prior quarter and $261 billion from a year ago.  

 During the quarter, customers added $3.5 billion in net new brokerage assets, representing an annualized growth rate of 5.8 percent. During the full year customers added $10.9 billion in net new brokerage assets. Brokerage related cash increased by $0.7 billion to $41.1 billion during the fourth quarter. Customers were net buyers of approximately $1.2 billion of securities. Margin receivables averaged $7.9 billion in the quarter, up four percent over last quarter and up 23 percent year over year, ending the quarter at $7.7 billion.  

 Corporate cash ended the quarter at $233 million(2), a decrease of $377 million from the prior quarter, driven primarily by the use of approximately $460 million to refinance and pay down corporate debt, offset by a $75 million dividend from the Company’s bank subsidiary to its parent.  

 Net operating interest income for the fourth quarter was $283 million, up from $269 million in the prior quarter and up from $257 million a year ago. Fourth quarter results reflected a net interest spread of 2.69 percent on average interest-earning assets of $40.9 billion, compared with 2.54 percent on $41.3 billion in the prior quarter.  

 Commissions, fees and service charges, and other revenue in the fourth quarter were $172 million, compared with $163 million in the prior quarter and $160 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. Average commission per trade for the quarter was $10.84, compared with $11.05 in the prior quarter, and $10.97 in the fourth quarter of 2013.  

 Total net revenue in the quarter also included $6 million of net gains on loans and securities. This compared with $8 million in the prior quarter and $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.  

 Total operating expenses in the quarter of $294 million increased $17 million sequentially, and decreased $1 million from the year ago period.  

 In November, the Company completed a transaction to reduce and refinance a portion of its corporate debt. The issuance of $540 million of 5.375% Senior Notes due 2022, along with approximately $460 million of corporate cash were used to redeem $435 million of 6.750% Senior Notes due 2016 and $505 million of 6.000% Senior Notes due 2017. The transaction, which resulted in a pre-tax loss of $59 million on early extinguishment of debt, reduced the Company’s debt burden by $400 million and lowered its annual debt service costs by approximately $30 million on a pre-tax basis.  

 The Company’s loan portfolio ended the quarter at $6.4 billion, contracting approximately $0.3 billion from the prior quarter. Fourth quarter provision for loan losses of $10 million was unchanged from the previous quarter.  

 Net charge-offs in the quarter were $7 million, compared with $10 million in the prior quarter. The allowance for loan losses ended the quarter at $404 million, up $3 million from the previous quarter.  

 As of December 31, 2014, the Company reported bank and consolidated Tier 1 leverage ratios of 10.6 percent(3) and 8.1 percent(4), respectively, compared with 10.4 percent(3) and 7.7 percent(4) in the prior quarter.  

 Historical metrics and financials can be found on the E*TRADE Financial corporate website at about.etrade.com.  

 The Company will host a conference call to discuss the results beginning at 5:00 p.m. ET today. This conference call will be available to domestic participants by dialing 800-735-5968 while international participants should dial +1 212-271-4651. A live audio webcast and replay of this conference call will also be available at about.etrade.com.  

 About E*TRADE Financial  

 E*TRADE Financial and its subsidiaries provide financial services including online brokerage and related banking products and services to retail investors. Specific business segments include Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management. Securities products and services are offered by E*TRADE Securities LLC (Member FINRA/SIPC). Bank products and services are offered by E*TRADE Bank, a Federal savings bank, Member FDIC, or its subsidiaries and affiliates. More information is available at www.etrade.com. ETFC-E  

 Important Notices  

 E*TRADE Financial, E*TRADE and the E*TRADE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of E*TRADE Financial Corporation.  

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 The statements contained in this news release that are forward looking, including statements regarding the realignment of the Company’s legal entity structure, distributions of excess capital to the parent, the operation of E*TRADE Bank at a lower Tier 1 leverage ratio, and future prospects for the Company are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. The uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to, macro trends of the economy in general and the residential real estate market, instability in the consumer credit markets and credit trends, increased mortgage loan delinquency and default rates, portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and resolution through collections, sales or charge-offs, the uncertainty surrounding the foreclosure process, and the potential negative regulatory consequences resulting from the implementation of financial regulatory reform as well as from actions by or more restrictive policies or interpretations of the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or other regulators. Further information about these risks and uncertainties can be found in the annual, quarterly, and current reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K previously filed by E*TRADE Financial Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including information in these reports under the caption “Risk Factors”). Any forward-looking statement included in this release speaks only as of the date of this communication; the Company disclaims any obligation to update any information.  

 © 2015 E*TRADE Financial Corporation. All rights reserved.  

 Financial Statements  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Average Enterprise Balance Sheet Data  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures and Certain Metrics  

 Management believes that net income and EPS excluding the loss on the early extinguishment of corporate debt, corporate cash, tangible book value per share, EBITDA, interest coverage, E*TRADE Bank Tier 1 common ratio and E*TRADE Financial capital ratios are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating and liquidity performance of the Company. Management believes that adjusting GAAP measures by excluding or including certain items is helpful to investors and analysts who may wish to use some or all of this information to analyze the Company’s current performance, prospects and valuation. Management uses non-GAAP information internally to evaluate operating performance and in formulating the budget for future periods.  

 Net Income and EPS Excluding the Loss on Early Extinguishment of Corporate Debt  

 Management believes that excluding the loss on the early extinguishment of corporate debt from net income and EPS provides useful additional measures of the Company’s ongoing operating performance because the charge is not directly related to our performance. See endnote (1) for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.  

 Corporate Cash  

 Corporate cash represents cash held at the parent company as well as cash held in certain subsidiaries that can distribute cash to the parent company without any regulatory approval. The Company believes that corporate cash is a useful measure of the parent company’s liquidity as it is the primary source of capital above and beyond the capital deployed in regulated subsidiaries. See endnote (2) for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.  

 Tangible Book Value per Share  

 Tangible book value per share represents shareholders’ equity less goodwill (net of related deferred tax liability) and other intangible assets divided by common stock outstanding. The Company believes that tangible book value per share is a measure of the Company’s capital strength. See endnote (8) for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.  

 EBITDA  

 EBITDA represents net income (loss) before taxes, depreciation and amortization and corporate interest expense. Management believes that EBITDA provides a useful additional measure of the Company’s performance by excluding certain non-cash charges and expenses that are not directly related to the performance of the business. See the table entitled “Key Performance Metrics” for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the comparable GAAP measure.  

 Interest Coverage  

 Interest coverage represents EBITDA divided by corporate interest expense. Management believes that by excluding the charges and expenses that are excluded from EBITDA, interest coverage provides a useful additional measure of the Company’s ability to continue to meet interest obligations and liquidity needs. See endnote (10) for a calculation of this non-GAAP measure on a GAAP basis.  

 E*TRADE Bank Tier 1 Common Ratio and E*TRADE Financial Capital Ratios  

 E*TRADE Financial ratios, including Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital and total risk-based capital ratios, are based on the Federal Reserve regulatory minimum well-capitalized threshold. E*TRADE Bank’s and E*TRADE Financial’s Tier 1 common ratios are defined as the Tier 1 capital less elements of Tier 1 capital that are not in the form of common equity, such as trust preferred securities, divided by total risk-weighted assets. Management believes these ratios are an important measure of E*TRADE Bank’s and the Company’s capital strength. See endnotes (3) and (4) for reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP measures.  

 It is important to note these metrics and other non-GAAP measures may involve judgment by management and should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or superior to, net income, consolidated statements of cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. For additional information on the adjustments to these non-GAAP measures, please see the Company’s financial statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” that will be included in the periodic report the Company expects to file with the SEC with respect to the financial periods discussed herein.  

 ENDNOTES  

 (1) The following table provides a reconciliation of net income and EPS after adjusting for the loss on early extinguishment of corporate debt to GAAP net income and EPS (dollars in millions, except for per share amounts):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (2) The following table provides a reconciliation of corporate cash to GAAP consolidated cash and equivalents at period end (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (3) E*TRADE Bank’s Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 common ratios are preliminary for the current period. E*TRADE Bank’s Tier 1 common ratio is a non-GAAP measure. Management believes this ratio is an important measure of capital strength. E*TRADE Bank’s Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 common ratios are calculated as follows (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (a) Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total risk-weighted assets.   

 (4) E*TRADE Financial’s Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 common ratios are preliminary for the current period, and are based on the Federal Reserve’s well-capitalized requirements. While E*TRADE Financial is not currently subject to capital requirements, the implementation of holding company capital requirements are effective in 2015 as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act. Management believes these ratios are an important measure of the Company's capital strength and accordingly manages capital against ratios currently applicable to bank holding companies, in preparation for the application of these requirements. The Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 common ratios are calculated as follows (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a) The Company is continuing to include TRUPs in E*TRADE Financial’s Tier 1 capital due to the regulatory agencies’ delay in the implementation of the TRUPs phase-out for the Company until January 1, 2015.    

  (b) Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total risk-weighted assets.   

 (5) Reflects elimination of transactions between Trading and Investing and Balance Sheet Management segments, which includes deposit and intercompany transfer pricing arrangements.  

 (6) Amounts and percentages may not calculate due to rounding.  

 (7) Operating margin is the percentage of net revenue that results in income before other income (expense) and income taxes. The percentage is calculated by dividing income before other income (expense) and income taxes by total net revenue.  

 (8) The following tables provide a reconciliation of GAAP book value and book value per share to non-GAAP tangible book value and tangible book value per share at period end (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (9) Enterprise net interest spread is the taxable equivalent rate earned on average enterprise interest-earning assets less the rate paid on average enterprise interest-bearing liabilities, excluding corporate interest-earning assets and liabilities and customer assets held by third parties.  

 (10) Interest coverage represents the ratio of the Company’s EBITDA to its corporate interest expense. The interest coverage ratio calculated based on the Company’s net income (loss) to its corporate interest expense was 1.5, 3.0, and 2.0 for the three months ended December 31, 2014, September 30, 2014, and December 31, 2013, respectively.  

 (11) E*TRADE Bank net income is calculated as follows (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (12) The brokerage account attrition rate is calculated by dividing attriting brokerage accounts, which are gross new brokerage accounts less net new brokerage accounts, by total brokerage accounts at the previous period end. This rate is presented on an annualized basis.  

 (13) Customer assets held by third parties are held outside E*TRADE Financial and include money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions. Customer assets held by third parties are not reflected in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and are not immediately available for liquidity purposes. However, we maintain the ability to bring these customer assets back on-balance sheet with appropriate notification to the third parties.  

 (14) Net new customer assets are total inflows to all new and existing customer accounts less total outflows from all closed and existing customer accounts. The net new banking assets and net new brokerage assets metrics treat asset flows between E*TRADE entities in the same manner as unrelated third party accounts.  

 (15) Delinquent loans include charge-offs for loans that are in bankruptcy or are 180 days past due which have been written down to their expected recovery value. The following table shows the total amount of charge-offs on loans that are still held by the Company at the end of the periods presented (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (16) Includes unpaid principal balances and premiums (discounts).  

 (17) The TDR loan performance detail is a subset of the Company’s total loan performance. TDRs include loan modifications performed under the Company’s modification programs. Beginning in Q412, loans that had been charged-off due to bankruptcy notification were also considered TDRs.  

 (18) Modifications are a subset of TDRs, and represent loan modifications performed under the Company’s modification programs. They do not include loans that have been charged-off due to the Company receiving notification of bankruptcy if the loan has not been modified previously by the Company. The following table shows the reconciliation of total TDRs that had a modification and those which the Company received a notification of bankruptcy (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (19) The total expected losses on modifications includes both the previously recorded charge-offs and the specific valuation allowance.  

 (20) Includes loans held-for-sale and excludes loans to customers on margin.  

 (21) Scheduled balances for FHLB advances and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are shown below (dollars in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (22) Represents gross-up for tax-exempt securities.  

 (23) Includes interest earned on average customer assets of $14.9 billion, $14.6 billion and $13.3 billion for the quarters ended December 31, 2014, September 30, 2014, and December 31, 2013, respectively, held by third parties outside E*TRADE Financial, including money market funds and sweep deposit accounts at unaffiliated financial institutions.  

 CONTACT:

E*TRADE Media Relations

Thayer Fox, 646-521-4418

thayer.fox@etrade.com

or

E*TRADE Investor Relations

Brett Goodman, 646-521-4406

brett.goodman@etrade.com