8-K Director Resignation   

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):January 16, 2015

Mettler-Toledo International Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 1-614-438-4511 and +41-44-944-22-11 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

Ÿ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

Ÿ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

Ÿ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

Ÿ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Item 5.02.Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.

Dr. Martin Madaus to Retire from METTLER TOLEDO Board of Directors

COLUMBUS, Ohio -- January 16, 2015 -- Mettler-Toledo International Inc. (NYSE:MTD) announced today that Dr. Martin D. Madaus will be retiring as a director of the Board, effective May 7, 2015, to fully devote time to his new role as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics. Robert F. Spoerry, Chairman of the Board, stated, “We sincerely thank Martin for his many contributions and dedication to METTLER TOLEDO. We regret that he has to retire due to his new commitments and wish him well as he takes on this time-intensive role.” 

The Board has determined to reduce the size of the Board by one member upon the retirement of Dr. Madaus.

METTLER TOLEDO is a leading global supplier of precision instruments and services. The Company has strong leadership positions in all businesses and believes it holds global number-one market positions in a majority of them. Specifically, METTLER TOLEDO is the largest provider of weighing instruments for use in laboratory, industrial and food retailing applications. The Company is also a leading provider in analytical instruments for use in life science, reaction engineering and real-time analytic systems used in drug and chemical compound development and process analytics instruments used for in-line measurement in production processes. In addition, METTLER TOLEDO is the largest supplier of end-of-line inspection systems used in production and packaging for food, pharmaceutical and other industries. Additional information about METTLER TOLEDO can be found at www.mt.com/investors.

Statements in this press release which are not historical facts constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our or our businesses’ actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see the discussion on forward-looking statements in our current report on Form 8-K to which this release has been furnished as an exhibit. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under the captions “Factors affecting our future operating results” and in the “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections of our annual report on Form 10-K for the most recently completed fiscal year, which describe risks and factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements.  

SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]