Whole Foods Market Delivers Record Q1 Sales and EPS

EXHIBIT 99.1

Whole Foods Market Delivers Record Q1 Sales and EPS

Comparable Store Sales Increase 4.5%, Accelerating on a One- and Two-Year Basis Due Primarily to Traffic Growth; Sales Increase 10% to Record $4.7 Billion; EPS Increase 10% to Record $0.46

AUSTIN, Texas, Feb. 11, 2015 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Whole Foods Market, Inc. (Nasdaq:WFM) today reported results for the 16-week first quarter ended January 18, 2015.

 Q1 Highlights:  Record total sales of $4.7 billion, a 10% increase over the prior year  Average weekly sales per store of $724,000, translating to sales per gross square foot of $990  Comparable store sales growth of 4.5%  Nine new store openings, translating to 9.4% ending square footage growth  EBITDA of $396 million, or 8.5% of sales  Diluted earnings per share of $0.46, a 10% increase over the prior year 

 During the quarter, the Company produced $387 million in cash flow from operations and invested $252 million in capital expenditures, resulting in free cash flow of $135 million. In addition, the Company returned $43 million in quarterly dividends to shareholders and repurchased $43 million of common stock, or 0.9 million shares. The Company ended the quarter with total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investments of approximately $1.0 billion. Return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters was 15%.

 "We are pleased with our first quarter results which reflect accelerating comparable store sales growth and healthy returns. We attribute our broad-based sales momentum to our customers' positive response to our many strategic initiatives, along with improving consumer confidence," said Walter Robb, co-chief executive officer of Whole Foods Market. "Changing technology has fundamentally altered how and when customers choose to connect with us, and we are rapidly building out an extended experience beyond the four walls of our stores. At the same time, there will always be demand for the dynamic shopping environment, passionate service, and sense of community our stores uniquely deliver. Over the past 37 years, we have demonstrated our retail leadership and are confident we will continue to innovate and lead as we triple our store count to 1,200 over the long term."

 The following table provides the Company's comparable store sales results for the last two quarters and for the first three weeks of the current second quarter. The Company has changed its comparable store sales definition from sales of a store being comparable commencing in the 53rd full week after a store is opened or acquired to being comparable in the 57th full week. The difference between the definitions was four basis points in the fourth quarter, five basis points in the first quarter, and 19 basis points for the first three weeks of the second quarter. Going forward, the Company will only report comparable store sales growth on a 57-week basis, which it believes more accurately reflects the true performance of its comparable stores as it minimizes the impact of stores cycling over high opening sales volumes. Companies define comparable store sales differently; thus, growth rates across companies may not be comparable.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Gross margin declined 20 basis points to 34.8% due primarily to higher cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales, including a negative six basis point impact from a $3 million LIFO charge versus no charge in the prior year.

 SG&A improved four basis points to 28.5% of sales. Excluding $13 million, or 28 basis points, of estimated incremental marketing costs related to the launch of the Company's "Values Matter" national brand campaign, SG&A improved 33 basis points to 28.2% of sales due to a decrease in salaries and benefits as a percentage of sales.

 Comparable stores sales growth by age class, calculated on a 53-week basis for the trailing four quarters, is provided in the following table.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Growth and Development

 In the first quarter, the Company opened nine new stores, including two relocations and expanding into one new market. In the second quarter, the Company has opened three new stores, including one relocation and one former Dominick's location, and expects to open eight additional stores, including two relocations and two former Dominick's locations.

 The Company recently signed 11 new leases, including three new sites in Canada. These leases are located in Sarasota, FL; Chicago, IL; Mandeville, LA; Baltimore, MD; Charlotte, NC; Bridgewater, NJ; Toledo, OH; Bellingham, WA; Calgary, AB; Edmonton, AB; and Victoria, BC.

 The Company currently has 408 stores totaling approximately 16 million square feet and expects to cross the 500-store mark in fiscal year 2017. Longer term, the Company sees demand for 1,200 Whole Foods Market stores in the United States. The following table provides additional information about the Company's new and acquired stores and development pipeline for stores scheduled to open through fiscal year 2018.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Fiscal Year 2015 Targets

 The Company's targets for fiscal year 2015 are:  Sales growth over 9%  Comparable store sales growth in the low to middle single digits  Square footage growth of 9% to 10% based on 38 to 42 new stores, including five to six relocations  EBITDA margin of approximately 9%  ROIC greater than 14% 

 The Company expects to continue its value strategy and make additional investments in areas such as technology, marketing, and new and existing stores. The Company believes this is the right strategy to drive sales growth over the longer term. Reflecting its ongoing value efforts, the Company expects a greater decline in gross margin, excluding LIFO, in fiscal year 2015 than in fiscal year 2014. The Company expects to maintain expense discipline and improve its cost structure, with the biggest opportunities coming from internal distribution, coordinated purchasing and labor leverage. While quarterly results may fluctuate, the Company expects diluted earnings per share growth for the fiscal year to be in line with or slightly higher than sales growth.

 The Company expects store openings to be spread fairly evenly throughout the rest of the fiscal year. For the six remaining former Dominick's locations in Chicago, two are expected to open in each of the second, third and fourth quarters. The Company also notes that Easter will fall in the second quarter of fiscal year 2015 versus the third quarter of fiscal year 2014, positively impacting comparable store sales growth in the second quarter and negatively impacting comparable store sales growth in the third quarter by an estimated 50 to 60 basis points.

 Seasonality

 The Company notes that average weekly sales and gross profit as a percentage of sales are typically highest in the second and third fiscal quarters, and lowest in the fourth fiscal quarter due to seasonally slower sales during the summer months. Gross profit as a percentage of sales is also lower in the first fiscal quarter due to the product mix of holiday sales.

 About Whole Foods Market

 Founded in 1978 in Austin, Texas, Whole Foods Market is the leading retailer of natural and organic foods, the first national "Certified Organic" grocer, and uniquely positioned as America's Healthiest Grocery StoreTM. In fiscal year 2014, the Company had sales of approximately $14 billion and currently has 408 stores in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Whole Foods Market employs approximately 88,000 team members and has been ranked for 17 consecutive years as one of the "100 Best Companies to Work For" in America by Fortune magazine. For more information, please visit www.wholefoodsmarket.com/values-matter.

 Disclaimer on Forward-looking Statements

 Certain statements in this press release and from time to time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, reports, and other written and oral communications made by us and our representatives, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are often identified by words such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "expect," "continue," "could," "can," "may," "will," "likely," "outlook," "depend," "should," "would," "plan," "project," "predict," "forecast," "goal," "target," "sustain," "seek" and similar expressions, and include references to assumptions and relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this analysis are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to be materially different from such forward-looking statements and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risks and uncertainties include general business conditions, changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including fuel prices and housing market trends, the impact of competition and other factors which are often beyond the control of the Company, as well other risks listed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2014 and risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial.

 We wish to caution you that you should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they were made. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.

 The Company will host a conference call today to discuss this earnings announcement at 4:00 p.m. CT. The dial-in number is (877) 876-9177, and the conference ID is "Whole Foods." A simultaneous audio webcast will be available at www.wholefoodsmarket.com/company-info/investor-relations.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]