ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The company is exposed to risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Certain derivative instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge the company's underlying economic exposures. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the company's financial instruments and hedging strategies.

Foreign Currency Risk

AbbVie's primary net foreign currency exposures are the Euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan and British pound. The following table reflects the total foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding at December 31, 2021 and 2020:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The company estimates that a 10% appreciation in the underlying currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant, would decrease the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts by $1.4 billion at December 31, 2021. If realized, this appreciation would negatively affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. However, gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. A 10% appreciation is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in foreign currencies.

As of December 31, 2021, the company has €5.9 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior Euro notes outstanding, which are exposed to foreign currency risk. The company designated these foreign currency denominated notes as hedges of its net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. As a result, any foreign currency translation gains or losses related to the Euro notes will be included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding to the senior Euro notes and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding to the net investment hedging program. 

Interest Rate Risk

The company estimates that an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would adversely impact the fair value of AbbVie's interest rate swap contracts by approximately $244 million at December 31, 2021. If realized, the fair value reduction would affect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts. The company estimates that an increase of 100 basis points in long-term interest rates would decrease the fair value of long-term debt by $5.0 billion at December 31, 2021. A 100 basis point change is believed to be a reasonably possible near-term change in interest rates. 

2021 Form 10-K  | 

48

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA