Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis also contains forward-looking statements and should also be read in conjunction with the disclosures and information contained in “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We use the terms “Accenture,” “we,” the “Company,” “our” and “us” in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. For example, a reference to “fiscal 2022” means the 12-month period that ended on August 31, 2022. All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year. 

We use the term “in local currency” so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance. Financial results “in local currency” are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior-year period’s foreign currency exchange rates. This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.

Overview 

Accenture plc is a leading global professional services company, providing a broad range of services and solutions across Strategy & Consulting, Technology, Operations, Industry X and Song. We serve clients in three geographic markets: North America, Europe and Growth Markets (Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East). We combine our strength in technology with industry experience, functional expertise and global delivery capability to help the world’s leading businesses, governments and other organizations build their digital core, optimize their operations, accelerate revenue growth and enhance citizen services—creating tangible value at speed and scale.

Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions, the overall inflationary environment and levels of business confidence. There continues to be significant economic and geopolitical uncertainty in many markets around the world, which has impacted and may continue to impact our business, particularly with regard to wage inflation and increased volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. During fiscal 2022, we disposed of our business in Russia and recorded a non-operating loss of $96 million. We do not have a business in Ukraine or Belarus.

Key Metrics 

We saw very strong demand across our business in fiscal 2022 as our clients continue their digital transformations. Key metrics for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 included:

•Revenues of $61.6 billion, representing 22% growth in U.S. dollars and 26% growth in local currency;

•New bookings of $71.7 billion, an increase of 21% in U.S. dollars and 25% in local currency;

•Operating margin of 15.2%, a 10 basis point expansion; 

•Diluted earnings per share of $10.71, an increase of 16.9% over $9.16 for fiscal 2021, including a $0.15 per share or 2% negative impact from the disposition of our business in Russia; and

•Cash returned to shareholders of $6.6 billion, including share purchases of $4.1 billion and dividends of $2.5 billion.
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations33

Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Effective June 1, 2022, we revised the reporting of our industry groups for the movement of Aerospace & Defense from Communications, Media & Technology to Products. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.

Revenues for fiscal 2022 increased 22% in U.S. dollars and 26% in local currency compared to fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2022, revenue growth in local currency was very strong across all geographic markets, industry groups and types of work. 

In our consulting business, revenues for fiscal 2022 increased 25% in U.S. dollars and 29% in local currency compared to fiscal 2021. Consulting revenue growth in local currency in fiscal 2022 was driven by very strong growth in Europe, Growth Markets and North America. Our consulting revenue continues to be driven by helping our clients accelerate their digital transformation, including moving to the cloud, embedding security across the enterprise and adopting new technologies. In addition, clients continue to be focused on initiatives designed to deliver cost savings and operational efficiency, as well as projects to accelerate growth and improve customer experiences.

In our outsourcing business, which we also refer to as our managed services business, revenues for fiscal 2022 increased 19% in U.S. dollars and 22% in local currency compared to fiscal 2021. Outsourcing revenue growth in local currency in fiscal 2022 was driven by very strong growth in Growth Markets, Europe and North America. We continue to experience growing demand to assist clients with application modernization and maintenance, cloud enablement and managed security services. In addition, clients continue to be focused on transforming their operations through data and analytics, automation and artificial intelligence to drive productivity and operational cost savings.

As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. While a significant portion of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, the majority of our revenues are denominated in other currencies, including the Euro, Japanese yen and U.K. pound. There continues to be volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have had and could in the future have a material effect on our financial results. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be higher. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be lower. The U.S. dollar strengthened against various currencies during fiscal 2022, resulting in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue growth that was approximately 4% lower than our revenue growth in local currency for the year. Assuming that exchange rates stay within recent ranges, we estimate that our fiscal 2023 revenue growth in U.S. dollars will be approximately 6% lower than our revenue growth in local currency. 
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations34

People Metrics

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Utilization for fiscal 2022 was 91%, down from 93% in fiscal 2021. We hire to meet current and projected future demand. We proactively plan and manage the size and composition of our workforce and take actions as needed to address changes in the anticipated demand for our services and solutions, given that compensation costs are the most significant portion of our operating expenses. Our workforce, the majority of which serves our clients, increased to approximately 721,000 as of August 31, 2022, compared to approximately 624,000 as of August 31, 2021. The year-over-year increase in our workforce reflects an overall increase in demand for our services and solutions, as well as people added in connection with acquisitions.

During fiscal 2022, we experienced a competitive labor market with high demand for the skills our people have, which contributed to elevated levels of voluntary attrition. For fiscal 2022, attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, was 19%, up from 14% in fiscal 2021. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, annualized attrition, excluding involuntary terminations, was 20%, flat with 20% in the third quarter of fiscal 2022. We evaluate voluntary attrition, adjust levels of new hiring and use involuntary terminations as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with changes in client demand.

In addition, we adjust compensation in order to attract and retain appropriate numbers of qualified employees. For the majority of our people, compensation increases become effective December 1st of each fiscal year. Given the overall inflationary environment, compensation has been and continues to increase faster than in prior years. In fiscal 2022, we have improved pricing, which we define as the contract profitability or margin on the work that we sell, across our business. While we are increasing pricing, as well as changing the mix of people and utilizing technology to reduce the impact of these compensation increases on our margin, the impact of these actions did not in fiscal 2022, and may not in the future, fully offset the impact of the compensation increases, resulting in lower contract profitability.

Our ability to grow our revenues and maintain or increase our margin could be adversely affected if we are unable to: match people and skills with the types or amounts of services and solutions clients are demanding; recover or offset increases in compensation; deploy our employees globally on a timely basis; manage attrition; and/or effectively assimilate new employees.

Operating Expenses

The primary categories of operating expenses include Cost of services, Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs. Cost of services is primarily driven by the cost of people serving our clients, which consists mainly of compensation, subcontractor and other payroll costs, and non-payroll costs on outsourcing contracts. Cost of services includes a variety of activities such as: contract delivery; recruiting and training; software development; and integration of acquisitions. Sales and marketing costs are driven primarily by: compensation costs for business development activities; marketing- and advertising-related activities; and certain acquisition-related costs. General and administrative costs primarily include costs for people that are non-client-facing, information systems, office space and certain acquisition-related costs.

Gross margin (Revenues less Cost of services as a percentage of Revenues) for fiscal 2022 was 32.0%, compared with 32.4% for fiscal 2021. The decrease in gross margin for fiscal 2022 was due to higher labor costs, including increased compensation and subcontractor costs, partially offset by a decrease in non-payroll costs.

Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues were 16.8% for fiscal 2022, compared with 17.3% for fiscal 2021. For fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, Sales and marketing costs decreased 60 basis points primarily due to lower selling and advertising costs as a percentage of revenues. General and administrative costs increased 10 basis points as a percentage of revenues. 

Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of Revenues) for fiscal 2022 was 15.2%, compared with 15.1% for fiscal 2021.
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations35

Other Income (Expense), net

During fiscal 2021, we recorded gains of $271 million and tax expense of $41 million, related to our investment in Duck Creek Technologies. For additional information, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Effective Tax Rate

The effective tax rates for fiscal 2022 and 2021 were 24.0% and 22.8%, respectively. Absent the investment gains and related tax expense, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 would have been 23.1%.

Diluted Earnings Per Share

Diluted earnings per share were $10.71 for fiscal 2022, including a $0.15 negative impact from the disposition of our business in Russia, compared with $9.16 for fiscal 2021. The $230 million investment gains, net of taxes, increased diluted earnings per share by $0.36 in fiscal 2021. Excluding the impact of these gains, diluted earnings per share would have been $8.80 for fiscal 2021.

Our operating income and diluted earnings per share are affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations on revenues and costs. Most of our costs are incurred in the same currency as the related revenues. Where practical, we seek to manage foreign currency exposure for costs not incurred in the same currency as the related revenues, such as the costs associated with our global delivery model, by using currency protection provisions in our customer contracts and through our hedging programs. We seek to manage our costs, taking into consideration the residual positive and negative effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on those costs. For more information on our hedging programs, see Foreign Currency Risk under Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 9 (Financial Instruments) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

We have presented our effective tax rate and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of the investment gains, as we believe doing so facilitates understanding as to the impact of these items and our performance in comparison to the prior period.

New Bookings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding.

We provide information regarding our new bookings, which include new contracts, including those acquired through acquisitions, as well as renewals, extensions and changes to existing contracts, because we believe doing so provides useful trend information regarding changes in the volume of our new business over time. New bookings can vary significantly quarter to quarter depending in part on the timing of the signing of a small number of large outsourcing contracts. The types of services and solutions clients are demanding and the pace and level of their spending may impact the conversion of new bookings to revenues. For example, outsourcing bookings, which are typically for multi-year contracts, generally convert to revenue over a longer period of time compared to consulting bookings.

Information regarding our new bookings is not comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. New bookings involve estimates and judgments. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of bookings. We do not update our new bookings for material subsequent terminations or reductions related to bookings originally recorded in prior fiscal years. New bookings are recorded using then-existing foreign currency exchange rates and are not subsequently adjusted for foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 

The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice with little or no termination penalties, and some without notice. Only the non-cancelable portion of these contracts is included in our remaining performance obligations disclosed in Note 2 (Revenues) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Accordingly, a significant portion of what we consider contract bookings is not included in our remaining performance obligations.
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations36

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. We continually evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions based on available information and experience. Because the use of estimates is inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. Certain of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. These include certain aspects of accounting for revenue recognition and income taxes. 

Revenue Recognition 

Determining the method and amount of revenue to recognize requires us to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether promised goods and services specified in an arrangement are distinct performance obligations and should be accounted for separately. Other judgments include determining whether performance obligations are satisfied over time or at a point in time and the selection of the method to measure progress towards completion. 

We measure progress towards completion for technology integration consulting services and some non-technology consulting services using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion. Revenues, including estimated fees, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. The amount of revenue recognized for these contracts in a period is dependent on our ability to estimate total contract costs. We continually evaluate our estimates of total contract costs based on available information and experience. 

Additionally, the nature of our contracts gives rise to several types of variable consideration, including incentive fees. Many contracts include incentives or penalties related to costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedules that may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts. We conduct reviews prior to signing such contracts to evaluate whether these incentives are reasonably achievable. Our estimates are monitored over the lives of our contracts and are based on an assessment of our anticipated performance, historical experience and other information available at the time. 

For additional information, see Note 2 (Revenues) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Income Taxes 

Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, income tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities involves judgment. Deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured using enacted tax rates, are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities. As a global company, we calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating current tax exposures in each jurisdiction as well as making judgments regarding the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Tax exposures can involve complex issues and may require an extended period to resolve. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjust the valuation allowances accordingly. Factors considered in making this determination include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, tax planning strategies and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction in which the tax asset is located. Valuation allowances will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of annual income before taxes can affect the overall effective tax rate. 

We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our quarterly operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense. A change in judgment that impacts the measurement of a tax position taken in a prior year is recognized as a discrete item in the interim period in which the change occurs. In the event there is a significant unusual or infrequent item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is recorded in the interim period in which it occurs. We release stranded tax effects from Accumulated other comprehensive loss using the specific identification approach for our defined benefit plans and the portfolio approach for other items. 

No taxes have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital and long-term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate. We currently do not foresee any event that would require us to distribute these indefinitely reinvested earnings. For additional information, see Note 11 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations37

As a matter of course, we are regularly audited by various taxing authorities, and sometimes these audits result in proposed assessments where the ultimate resolution may result in us owing additional taxes. We establish tax liabilities or reduce tax assets when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are appropriate and supportable under local tax law, we believe we may not succeed in realizing the tax benefit of certain positions if challenged. In evaluating a tax position, we determine whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Our estimate of the ultimate tax liability contains assumptions based on past experiences, judgments about potential actions by taxing jurisdictions as well as judgments about the likely outcome of issues that have been raised by taxing jurisdictions. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. We evaluate tax positions each quarter and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit or the expiration of a statute of limitations. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of tax positions are reasonable. However, final determinations of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different from estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which that determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we have adequately accounted for these positions.

Revenues by Segment/Geographic Market 

Our three reportable operating segments are our geographic markets, North America, Europe and Growth Markets. In addition to reporting revenues by geographic market and industry group, we also report revenues by two types of work: consulting and outsourcing, which represent the services sold by our geographic markets. Consulting revenues, which include strategy, management and technology consulting and technology integration consulting, reflect a finite, distinct project or set of projects with a defined outcome and typically a defined set of specific deliverables. Outsourcing revenues typically reflect ongoing, repeatable services or capabilities provided to transition, run and/or manage operations of client systems or business functions. 

From time to time, our geographic markets work together to sell and implement certain contracts. The resulting revenues and costs from these contracts may be apportioned among the participating geographic markets. Generally, operating expenses for each geographic market have similar characteristics and are subject to the same factors, pressures and challenges. However, the economic environment and its effects on the industries served by our geographic markets affect revenues and operating expenses within our geographic markets to differing degrees. The mix between consulting and outsourcing is not uniform among our geographic markets. Local currency fluctuations also tend to affect our geographic markets differently, depending on the geographic concentrations and locations of their businesses. 

While we provide discussion about our results of operations below, we cannot measure how much of our revenue growth in a particular period is attributable to changes in price or volume. Management does not track standard measures of unit or rate volume. Instead, our measures of volume and price are extremely complex, as each of our services contracts is unique, reflecting a customized mix of specific services that does not fit into standard comparability measurements. Revenue for our services is a function of the nature of each service to be provided, the skills required and the outcome sought, as well as estimated cost, risk, contract terms and other factors. 
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations38

Results of Operations for Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 

Revenues by geographic market, industry group and type of work are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding.

(1)Effective June 1, 2022, we revised the reporting of our industry groups for the movement of Aerospace & Defense from Communications, Media & Technology to Products. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.

Revenues 

The following revenues commentary discusses local currency revenue changes for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021: 

Geographic Markets 

•North America revenues increased 23% in local currency, led by growth in Public Service, Consumer Goods, Retail & Travel Services and Software & Platforms. Revenue growth was driven by the United States.

•Europe revenues increased 29% in local currency, led by growth in Industrial, Consumer Goods, Retail & Travel Services and Banking & Capital Markets. Revenue growth was driven by Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy.

•Growth Markets revenues increased 29% in local currency, led by growth in Consumer Goods, Retail & Travel Services, Banking & Capital Markets and Public Service. Revenue growth was driven by Japan, Australia and Brazil.

Operating Expenses 

Operating expenses for fiscal 2022 increased $9,315 million, or 22%, over fiscal 2021, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 84.8% from 84.9% during this period.

Operating expenses by category are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding.
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations39

Cost of Services 

Cost of services for fiscal 2022 increased $7,724 million, or 23%, over fiscal 2021, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 68.0% over 67.6% during this period. Gross margin for fiscal 2022 decreased to 32.0% from 32.4% in fiscal 2021. The decrease in gross margin for fiscal 2022 was primarily due to higher labor costs, including increased compensation and subcontractor costs, partially offset by a decrease in non-payroll costs.

Sales and Marketing

Sales and marketing expense for fiscal 2022 increased $820 million, or 16%, over fiscal 2021, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 9.9% from 10.5% during this period. The decrease was primarily due to lower selling and advertising costs.

General and Administrative Costs 

General and administrative costs for fiscal 2022 increased $772 million, or 22%, over fiscal 2021, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 6.9% over 6.8% during this period.

Operating Income and Operating Margin 

Operating income for fiscal 2022 increased $1,746 million, or 23%, over fiscal 2021. Operating margin for fiscal 2022 was 15.2%, compared with 15.1% for fiscal 2021.

Operating income and operating margin for each of the geographic markets are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding.

We estimate that the aggregate percentage impact of foreign currency exchange rates on our operating income during fiscal 2022 was similar to that disclosed for revenue for each geographic market. The commentary below provides insight into other factors affecting geographic market performance and operating income for fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021: 

•North America operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability.

•Europe operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability and higher acquisition-related costs.

•Growth Markets operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth, partially offset by lower contract profitability.

Other Income (Expense), net

Other income (expense), net primarily consists of foreign currency gains and losses, non-operating components of pension expense, as well as gains and losses associated with our investments. During fiscal 2022, Other income (expense) decreased $238 million from fiscal 2021, primarily due to lower gains on investments. For additional information on investments, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Loss on Disposition of Russia Business

We recorded a loss from the disposal of our business in Russia of $96 million during fiscal 2022.

Income Tax Expense 

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was 24.0%, compared with 22.8% for fiscal 2021. Absent the $271 million investment gains and related $41 million in tax expense, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 would have been 23.1%. The higher effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was primarily due to lower benefits from final determinations of prior year taxes. For 
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations40

additional information, see Note 11 (Income Taxes) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects the income earned or expense incurred attributable to the equity interest that some current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees have in our Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. subsidiary. See “Business—Organizational Structure.” Noncontrolling interests also includes amounts primarily attributable to noncontrolling shareholders in our Avanade Inc. subsidiary. Net income attributable to Accenture plc represents the income attributable to the shareholders of Accenture plc. 

Earnings Per Share 

Diluted earnings per share were $10.71 for fiscal 2022, including a $0.15 negative impact from the disposition of our business in Russia, compared with $9.16 for fiscal 2021. The $230 million investment gains, net of taxes, increased diluted earnings per share by $0.36 in fiscal 2021. Excluding the impact of these gains, diluted earnings per share would have been $8.80 for fiscal 2021. For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 3 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

The increase in diluted earnings per share is due to the following factors:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Results of Operations for Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2021 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended August 31, 2020 in Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations41

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, available cash reserves and debt capacity available under various credit facilities. We could raise additional funds through other public or private debt or equity financings. We may use our available or additional funds to, among other things: 

•facilitate purchases, redemptions and exchanges of shares and pay dividends;

•acquire complementary businesses or technologies; 

•take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; or 

•develop new services and solutions. 

As of August 31, 2022, Cash and cash equivalents were $7.9 billion, compared with $8.2 billion as of August 31, 2021. 

Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in our Consolidated Cash Flows Statements, are summarized in the following table: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Amounts in table may not total due to rounding.

Operating activities: The $566 million increase in operating cash flows was primarily due to higher net income, partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities, including receivables from clients and contract assets. 

Investing activities: The $49 million decrease in cash used was primarily due to lower spending on business acquisitions, partially offset by lower proceeds from the sale of businesses and investments and higher spending on purchases of property and equipment. For additional information, see Note 6 (Business Combinations and Dispositions) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Financing activities: The $385 million increase in cash used was primarily due to an increase in the net purchases of shares as well as an increase in cash dividends paid, partially offset by an increase in net proceeds from share issuances. For additional information, see Note 14 (Shareholders’ Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

We believe that our current and longer-term working capital, investments and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied for the next twelve months and thereafter through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities.

Substantially all of our cash is held in jurisdictions where there are no regulatory restrictions or material tax effects on the free flow of funds. In addition, domestic cash inflows for our Irish parent, principally dividend distributions from lower-tier subsidiaries, have been sufficient to meet our historic cash requirements, and we expect this to continue into the future.

Share Purchases and Redemptions 

We intend to continue to use a significant portion of cash generated from operations for share repurchases during fiscal 2023. The number of shares ultimately repurchased under our open-market share purchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including, without limitation, share price and other market conditions, our ongoing capital allocation planning, the levels of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic and/or business conditions, and board and management discretion. Additionally, as these factors may change over the course of the year, the amount of share repurchase activity during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time. Share repurchases may be made from time to time through open-market purchases, in respect of purchases and redemptions of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares, through the use of Rule 10b5-1 plans and/or by other means. The repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time, without notice. For additional information, see Note 14 (Shareholders’ Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations42

Subsequent Events

See Note 14 (Shareholders’ Equity) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Obligations and Commitments

As of August 31, 2022, we had commitments of $2.8 billion related to cloud hosting arrangements, software subscriptions, information technology services and other obligations in the ordinary course of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation. Payments under these commitments are estimated to be made as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Amounts do not include recourse that we may have to recover termination fees or penalties from clients. 

For information about borrowing facilities and leases, see Note 10 (Borrowings and Indebtedness) and Note 8 (Leases) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters. To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of these arrangements. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 15 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 
ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-KItem 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk43

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk