PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Alaska Air Group (the "Company" or "Air Group") is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1985 that operates two airlines, Alaska and Horizon. Alaska was organized in 1932 and incorporated in 1937 in the state of Alaska. Horizon is a Washington corporation that was incorporated and began service in 1981, and was acquired by Air Group in 1986. Air Group acquired Virgin America in 2016, then legally merged the entity with Alaska in 2018, at which time the airlines' operating certificates were also combined. The Company also includes McGee Air Services, an aviation services provider that was established as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alaska in 2016, and other subsidiaries. 

Alaska and Horizon operate as separate airlines, with individual business plans, competitive factors and economic risks. We organize the business and review financial operating performance by aggregating our business in three operating segments, which are as follows:

•Mainline - includes scheduled air transportation on Alaska's Boeing and Airbus jet aircraft for passengers and cargo throughout the U.S., and in parts of Mexico, Costa Rica and Belize. 

•Regional - includes Horizon's and other third-party carriers’ scheduled air transportation for passengers across a shorter distance network within the U.S. and Canada under capacity purchase agreements (CPA). This segment includes the actual revenues and expenses associated with regional flying, as well as an allocation of corporate overhead incurred by Air Group on behalf of the regional operations. 

•Horizon - includes the capacity sold to Alaska under a CPA. Expenses include those typically borne by regional airlines such as crew costs, ownership costs and maintenance costs. 

Together we are the fifth largest airline in the United States, offering unparalleled guest service, connectivity and schedules from our hub markets along the West Coast. With our regional partners, we fly to more than 120 destinations throughout North America. We have operated in a highly competitive and often challenging industry for nearly 90 years. Our top priority as an airline is ensuring the safety of our guests and employees, an area that we continually invest in. Our success over many decades and resilience in difficult times is attributable to our people, business model, and commitment to sustainable growth over the long-term. 

In 2021, our business continued to recover from the impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic that began in 2020. Demand for travel improved considerably in 2021 as travel restrictions and stay-at-home orders relaxed. However, progress was volatile as new COVID-19 variants impacted the communities that we serve. In response to the uncertainties in recovery, we scaled capacity back up in a measured way, bringing flying back as demand materialized. This approach was a critical factor that enabled us to return to profitability in the second half of the year. As a result, our 2021 operating cash flows were positive, even when excluding the impact of government grants. This progress enabled us to repay $1.3 billion in debt and return our debt to capitalization ratio to 49%, the lowest level since the first quarter of 2020. In addition, we voluntarily funded a $100 million pension contribution, bringing our funded status to 98% as of year end. 

The improved results in 2021 set a foundation for our return to pre-COVID flying levels by summer 2022 and growth from there. Our 2025 Plan includes ambitious goals, including aligning our growth strategy with critical environmental, social and governance targets. Instrumental to achieving this is our restructured fleet agreement with Boeing, which includes firm commitments for 93 new 737-9 aircraft to be delivered through 2024, with options to purchase 52 additional aircraft. These deliveries began in earnest in 2021, and ramp up significantly in 2022. The new 737-9 aircraft replace the aging Airbus A320 aircraft, which will be retired from the operating fleet by 2023. Significantly improved per-seat economics driven by larger gauge and improved fuel efficiency, as well as the transition to a single mainline fleet, will serve as the baseline for high-margin capacity growth over the next several years. 

In 2021, recovery of leisure demand outpaced recovery of business demand. Responding to these trends, we adapted our network to take our guests where they want to fly. We announced 32 new routes to popular leisure destinations, including Belize. With new routes announced in 2021, we will serve 100 nonstop destinations from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport by summer 2022, more than any other carrier. We also formally joined the oneworld® alliance in 2021, which provides global access for our guests and exciting growth opportunities for our airlines. As we grow our West Coast hubs, we plan to maximize connectivity to partner airlines, allowing our guests greater global connectivity. By summer 2022, Alaska guests will be able to access 100 nonstop flights to Europe from the West Coast on oneworld partners. Although we have ambitious growth plans, we will continue to deploy capacity in a disciplined manner that is responsive to changing demand trends. 

Our success is fueled by the engagement and dedication of our employees. Aligning our employees' goals with the Company's goals is critical in achieving success. To that end, all employees participate in our Performance-Based Pay (PBP) and 

4

Operational Performance Rewards (OPR) programs, which reward employees across all work groups based on metrics related to safety, profitability and cash flow, sustainability, on-time performance, low costs and customer satisfaction. In 2021, we rewarded employees with $151 million under these incentive programs. 

AIR GROUP

Our airlines operate different aircraft and missions. Alaska operates a fleet of narrowbody passenger jets on primarily longer stage-length routes. Alaska contracts primarily with Horizon and SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) for shorter-haul capacity and receives all passenger revenue from those flights. Horizon operates Embraer 175 (E175) regional jet aircraft and Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft and sells all of its capacity to Alaska pursuant to a Capacity Purchase Agreement (CPA). The majority of our revenues are generated by transporting passengers. The percentage of revenues by category is as follows: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We deploy aircraft in ways that we believe will best optimize our revenues and profitability and reduce the impacts of seasonality.

The percentage of our capacity by region is as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Category represents flying within the West Coast. Departures from the West Coast to other regions are captured in other categories. 

MAINLINE

Our Mainline operations include Boeing 737 (B737) and Airbus A320 family (A320 and A321neo) jet service offered by Alaska. We offer extensive passenger service from the western U.S. throughout the contiguous United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Mexico, Costa Rica, and Belize. Our largest concentrations of departures are in Seattle, Portland, and the Bay Area. We also offer cargo service throughout our network and have three dedicated cargo aircraft that operate primarily to and within the state of Alaska. 

In 2021, we carried 23 million revenue passengers in our Mainline operations, up from 12 million in 2020 as demand for air travel rebounded from the lows of the COVID-19 pandemic. At December 31, 2021, our Mainline operating fleet consisted of 177 B737 jet aircraft and 40 Airbus A320 family jet aircraft.

5

The percentage of Mainline passenger capacity by region and average stage length is presented below:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Category represents flying within the West Coast. Departures from the West Coast to other regions are captured in other categories.

REGIONAL

Our Regional operations consist primarily of flights operated by Horizon and SkyWest. In 2021, our Regional operations carried approximately 9 million revenue passengers, primarily in the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California. Horizon is the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest and carries approximately 65% of Air Group's Regional revenue passengers. 

Based on 2021 Horizon passenger enplanements on Regional aircraft, our most significant concentration of Regional activity was in Seattle and Portland. At December 31, 2021, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of 30 E175 jet aircraft and 32 Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft. The Regional fleet operated by SkyWest consisted of 32 E175 aircraft.

The percentage of Regional passenger capacity by region and average stage length is presented below:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAM 

Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan™ provides a comprehensive suite of frequent flyer benefits. Miles can be earned by flying on our airline, which will accumulate faster because our miles are awarded on flight distance, not spend. Miles can also be earned by flying with one of our partner airlines, by using an Alaska Airlines credit card or through other non-airline partners. As the newest member of oneworld, our already extensive list of airline partners expanded and now comprises 23 partner airlines, making it easier for our members to earn miles and reach elite status in our frequent flyer program, and providing them reciprocal tier status on other oneworld carriers. Through Alaska and our partners, Mileage Plan members have access to a network of over 1,000 worldwide travel destinations. Further, members can receive up to 40,000 bonus miles upon signing up for the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature card and meeting a minimum spend threshold, earning three miles per $1 spent on Alaska Airlines purchases, and one mile per $1 spent on all other purchases. Alaska Airlines Visa Signature cardholders and small business cardholders in the U.S., and select Alaska Mastercard cardholders in Canada, also receive an annual companion ticket that allows members to purchase an additional ticket for $99 plus taxes, with no restrictions or black-out dates, and a free first checked bag for up to seven people traveling on the same itinerary. Earned miles can be redeemed for flights on our airlines, our partner airlines, hotel stays, or for upgrades to first class on Alaska Airlines. We believe all of these benefits give our Mileage Plan members more value than competing programs.

Mileage Plan revenues, including those in the Passenger revenue income statement line item, represented approximately 20% of Air Group's total revenues in 2021. Mileage Plan helps drive revenue growth by attracting new customers, keeping existing customers actively engaged, and building customer loyalty through the benefits that we provide. 

6

COMMERCIAL AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER AIRLINES

Our commercial agreements with other airlines fall into three categories: frequent flyer, codeshare and interline. 

•Frequent flyer agreements enable our Mileage Plan members to accrue miles and redeem them for flights on partner airlines. 

•Codeshare agreements allow one or more marketing carriers to sell seats on a single operating carrier that services passengers under multiple flight numbers. The sale of codeshare seats can vary depending on the sale arrangement. For example, in a free-sale arrangement, the marketing carrier sells the operating carrier's inventory without any restriction; whereas in a block-space arrangement, a fixed amount of seats are sold to the marketing carrier by the operating carrier. The interchangeability of the flight code between carriers provides a greater selection of flights for customers, along with increased flexibility for mileage accrual and redemption. 

•Interline agreements allow airlines to jointly offer a competitive, single-fare itinerary to customers traveling via multiple carriers to a final destination. An interline itinerary offered by one airline may not necessarily be offered by the other, and the fares collected from passengers are prorated and distributed to interline partners according to preexisting agreements between the carriers. 

Frequent flyer, codeshare and interline agreements help increase our traffic and revenue by providing a more diverse network and schedule options to our guests. 

Upon entrance to the oneworld alliance, Alaska added seven new airline partners and enhanced eight existing partnerships with oneworld members. As a oneworld member, Alaska's elite Mileage Plan members now receive tier status matching across member airlines. Depending on tier status, guests can enjoy a variety of privileges, including access to more than 650 international first and business class lounges, fast track through security, priority baggage benefits, priority check-in desks, upgrades, and priority boarding.

Alliances are an important part of our strategy and enhance our revenues by:

•offering our guests more travel destinations and better mileage credit and redemption opportunities, including elite qualifying miles on U.S. and international airline partners;

•providing a consistent and seamless guest experience whether you are flying on Alaska or one of our partners;

•giving us access to more connecting traffic from other airlines; and

•providing members of our alliance partners’ frequent flyer programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska and our regional partners while earning mileage credit in our partners’ programs.

Most of our codeshare relationships are free-sale codeshares, where the marketing carrier sells seats on the operating carrier’s flights from the operating carrier’s inventory, but takes no inventory risk. Our marketing agreements have various termination dates, and one or more may be in the process of renegotiation at any time. Our codeshare and interline agreements generated 2%, 3%, and 5% of our total marketed flight revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. 

7

A comprehensive summary of Alaska's alliances with other airlines is as follows: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)These airlines do not have their own frequent flyer program. However, Alaska's Mileage Plan members can earn and redeem miles on these airlines' route systems.

CARGO AND OTHER REVENUE

The Company provides freight and mail services (cargo). The majority of cargo services are provided to commercial businesses and the United States Postal Service. The Company satisfies cargo service performance obligations and recognizes revenue when the shipment arrives at its final destination, or is transferred to a third-party carrier for delivery.

The Company also earns other revenue for lounge memberships, hotel and car commissions, and certain other immaterial items not intrinsically tied to providing air travel to passengers. Revenue is recognized when these services are rendered and recorded as Cargo and other revenue.

GENERAL

The airline industry is highly competitive and subject to potentially volatile business cycles, resulting from factors such as a global pandemic, economic conditions, volatile fuel prices, a largely unionized work force, the need to finance large capital expenditures and the related availability of capital, government regulation—including taxes and fees, and potential aircraft incidents. Airlines have high fixed costs, primarily for wages, aircraft fuel, aircraft ownership and facilities rents. Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly based on the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results. In other words, a minor shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative impact to our operating and financial results. Passenger demand and ticket prices are, in large measure, influenced by the general state of the economy, current global economic and political events, and total available airline seat capacity.

8

FUEL

Our business and financial results are highly impacted by the price and the availability of aircraft fuel. Aircraft fuel expense includes raw fuel expense, or the price that we generally pay at the airport, including taxes and fees, plus the effect of mark-to-market adjustments to our fuel hedge portfolio as the value of that portfolio increases and decreases. The cost of aircraft fuel is volatile and outside of our control, and it can have a significant and immediate impact on our operating results. Over the past three years, aircraft fuel expense ranged from 14% to 24% of operating expenses. Fuel prices are impacted by changes in both the price of crude oil and refining costs and can vary by region in the U.S. 

The price of crude oil on an average annual basis for the past three years has ranged from a low of $39 per barrel in 2020 to a high of $68 in 2021. For us, a $1 per barrel change in the price of oil equates to approximately $16 million of fuel cost annually based on 2021 consumption levels. Said another way, a one-cent change in our fuel price per gallon would have impacted our 2021 fuel cost by approximately $7 million.

Refining margins, which represent the price of refining crude oil into aircraft fuel, are a smaller portion of the overall price of jet fuel, but have also contributed to the price volatility in recent years. Over the last three years, average annual West Coast refining margin prices have fluctuated from a low of $11 per barrel in 2020 to a high of $26 per barrel in 2019.

Generally, West Coast jet fuel prices are somewhat higher and more volatile than prices in the Gulf Coast or on the East Coast. Our average raw fuel cost per gallon increased 37% in 2021, after decreasing 29% in 2020 and decreasing 6% in 2019.

The percentages of our aircraft fuel expense by crude oil and refining margins, as well as the percentage of our aircraft fuel expense of operating expenses, are as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Other includes gains and losses on settled fuel hedges, unrealized mark-to-market fuel hedge gains or losses, taxes and other into-plane costs.

We use crude oil call options as hedges against our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices. Call options effectively cap our price for crude oil, limiting our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel consumption. With call options, we are hedged against spikes in crude oil prices, and during a period of declines in crude oil prices, we only forfeit cash previously paid for hedge premiums. We begin hedging approximately 18 months in advance of consumption.

In 2020, Alaska began using sustainable aviation fuel for certain flights departing from San Francisco International Airport. Sustainable aviation fuel prices are currently higher than traditional fuel prices as the market is developing. We are evaluating options for obtaining the volume of sustainable aviation fuels that we expect will be necessary to move us towards our long-term sustainability goals. These options include partnerships with alternative fuel companies and industry groups focused on ways to accelerate innovation in this area. 

We believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft and executing on operational best practices are the best hedges against high fuel prices. Maintaining a young, fuel-efficient fleet helps reduce our fuel consumption rate, but also the amount of greenhouse gases and other pollutants that our aircraft emit.

9

COMPETITION

Competition in the airline industry can be intense and unpredictable. Our competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation. Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport. We compete with other domestic airlines and a limited number of international airlines on nearly all of our scheduled routes. Our largest competitor is Delta Air Lines Inc. (Delta). Approximately 76% of our capacity to and from Seattle competes with Delta. As we have grown in California and have expanded our transcontinental route offerings, United Airlines and Southwest Airlines have also become large competitors and have increased their capacity in markets we serve. Our California and transcontinental routes have a higher concentration of competitors when compared to our historical route structure, which was predominately concentrated in the Pacific Northwest. As carriers further restore domestic capacity in the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect the amount of competitive capacity overlap with all carriers to increase in the first quarter of 2022.

We believe that the following competitive factors matter to guests when making an air travel purchase decision:

•Routes served, flight schedules, codesharing and interline relationships, and frequent flyer programs

We compete with other airlines based on markets served, the frequency of service to those markets and frequent flyer opportunities. Some airlines have more extensive route structures than we do, and they offer significantly more international routes. In order to expand opportunities for our guests, we enter into codeshare and interline relationships with other airlines that provide reciprocal frequent flyer mileage credit and redemption privileges. These relationships allow us to offer our guests access to more destinations than we can on our own, gain exposure in markets we do not serve and allow our guests more opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles. Our Mileage Plan offers some of the most valuable benefits in the industry, allowing our members the ability to earn and redeem miles on 23 partner carriers. 

Our 2021 entry into the oneworld alliance provides our guests increased global network utility and benefits, and positions us to capture an incremental share of global travelers and corporate accounts as demand for air travel recovers further from the COVID-19 pandemic. 

•Safety and guest health

Safety is our top priority and is at the core of everything we do. In its most recent rankings for 2022, AirlineRatings.com has again ranked Alaska as the safest U.S. airline within its ranking of the Top 20 safest airlines in the world. In 2020, we also received our 19th Diamond Award of Excellence from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), recognizing both Alaska and Horizon aircraft technicians for their commitment to training.

As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our guests are sensitive to the risk of potential contagion throughout their journey. To address these concerns, we partnered with health and safety experts to build our Next-Level Care initiative. The initiative added nearly 100 measures through all stages of travel aimed at educating and helping our guests and employees to stay safe and to build confidence in flying. 

•Fares and ancillary services

Ticket and other fee pricing is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the increased availability of fare information on the internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. Pricing is driven by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, market-specific capacity, market share per route/geographic area, cost structure, fare vs. ancillary revenue strategies, and demand. 

For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors. In addition, traditional network carriers have been able to reduce their operating costs through bankruptcies and mergers, while low-cost carriers have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat one mile), which in turn may enable them to lower their fares. These factors can reduce our pricing power and that of the airline industry as a whole.

Domestic airline capacity is dominated by four large carriers, representing 78% of total seats. One of our advantages is that we offer low fares and a premium value product and experience. However, given the large concentration of industry capacity, some carriers in our markets may discount their fares substantially to develop or increase market share. Fares that are substantially below our cost to operate can be harmful if sustained over a long period of time. We will defend our 

10

position in our core markets and, if necessary, adjust capacity to better match supply with demand. Our strong financial position and low cost advantage have historically enabled us to offer competitive fares while still earning returns for our shareholders.

•Customer service and reputation

We compete with other airlines in areas of customer service such as on-time performance and guest amenities - including first class and other premium seating, quality of on-board products, aircraft type and comfort. All mainline aircraft in operating service have our refreshed interior configuration, which provides our guests with one consistent experience across the fleet. We also began installing next-generation Gogo® inflight satellite-based Wi-Fi on our entire Boeing and Airbus fleets in 2018, which is now planned to be completed in early 2022. 

Our employees are a critical element of our reputation. We have a highly engaged workforce that strives to provide genuine and caring service to our guests, both at the airport and onboard. We heavily emphasize our service standards with our employees through training and education programs and monetary incentives related to operational performance and guest satisfaction.

In addition to domestic or foreign airlines that we compete with on most of our routes, we compete with ground transportation in our short-haul markets. Our airlines also compete with technology, such as video conferencing and internet-based meeting tools. We expect that the advancement and increased utilization of these tools will eliminate the need for some business-related travel. 

TICKET DISTRIBUTION

Our tickets are distributed through three primary channels:

•Direct to customer: Selling direct at alaskaair.com is less expensive than other channels. We believe direct sales through this channel are preferable from a branding and customer relationship standpoint because we can establish ongoing communication with the guest and tailor offers accordingly. As a result, we prioritize efforts that drive more business to our website. 

•Traditional and online travel agencies: Both traditional and online travel agencies typically use Global Distribution Systems to obtain their fare and inventory data from airlines. Bookings made through these agencies result in a fee that is charged to the airline. Many large corporate customers require us to use these agencies. Some of our competitors rely on this distribution channel to a lesser extent than we do, and, as a result, may have lower ticket distribution costs.

•Reservation call centers: Our call centers are located in Phoenix, AZ, Seattle, WA, and Boise, ID. We generally charge a $15 fee for booking reservations through the call centers. 

Our sales by channel are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS

Our results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year because our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. In typical years, our profitability is generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters due principally to fewer departures and passengers. Profitability typically increases in the second quarter and then reaches its highest level during the third quarter as a result of vacation travel. Although pre-tax profits have not fully recovered to pre-COVID levels, seasonal fluctuations began to return to pre-COVID patterns as demand recovered in 2021, aided by the widespread availability of COVID-19 vaccines in the second quarter. However, due to relatively weaker business travel recovery and volatility from new COVID variants, seasonal fluctuations have not fully normalized. In a typical year, some of the impacts of seasonality are offset by travel from the West Coast to leisure destinations, like Hawaii and Costa Rica, and expansion to leisure and business destinations in the mid-continental and eastern U.S. Seasonality and operational fluctuations are not predictable in the current environment and may be permanently changed post-pandemic. 

In a typical year, in addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to vary include: 

•pricing initiatives by us or our competitors,

• changes in fuel costs, 

•increases in competition at our primary airports,

•general economic conditions and resulting changes in passenger demand, 

•increases or decreases in passenger and volume-driven variable costs, and

•air space and Air Traffic Control delays, particularly in Seattle and San Francisco.

Many of the markets we serve experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs associated with deicing aircraft, canceling flights and accommodating displaced passengers. Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more susceptible to adverse weather conditions, particularly in the state of Alaska and the Pacific Northwest, than some of our competitors who may be better able to spread the impact of weather-related risks over larger route systems. 

No material part of our business, or that of our subsidiaries, is dependent upon a single customer, or upon a few high-volume customers.

SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES

Taking responsibility for our impact on the environment is an integral part of delivering value for all those who depend on us – employees, guests, owners and communities. To that end, we are focused on mitigating or reducing our most significant environmental impacts. Our sustainability goals are anchored by our commitment to reduce our carbon emissions. In 2021, we announced new short and long-term targets, with the ultimate goal of reaching net-zero carbon emissions by 2040. Our roadmap for achieving this goal includes the following focus areas:

•Renewing our fleet with more efficient airplanes - Alaska received 11 Boeing 737-9 aircraft in 2021 and has firm commitments to take 82 more. Alaska also has options for 52 additional 737-9 aircraft. These aircraft will provide improved fuel efficiency compared to the aircraft they are slated to replace, and enable fuel-efficient growth as well. Alaska has also partnered with Boeing on the 737-9 ecoDemonstrator program, which tests advanced technologies designed to enhance the safety and sustainability of air travel.

•Using sustainable aviation fuel - Among currently available technologies, sustainable aviation fuel has the greatest potential for enabling near-term progress towards our net-zero emissions goal. Alaska has joined other carriers at Seattle Tacoma International Airport and San Francisco International Airport to establish a pathway to commercially viable sustainable aviation fuel. Expanding use of sustainable aviation fuel also depends on its reliable availability. To this end, we are partnered with others in the aviation community to identify and develop new sources of production. 

•Increasing operational efficiency - Alaska and Horizon take pride in consistently delivering top-of-industry operational performance. Alaska's use of Required Navigational Performance aids in reducing emissions through providing more direct approaches and reducing weather-related diversions. Alaska was also the first in the industry to 

12

adopt Flyways AI, a technology which leverages artificial intelligence and machine learning to optimize air traffic and enable more fuel-efficient flight paths for aggregate savings of fuel, carbon emissions and time. 

•Increasing the use of electric or alternative power - In 2021, we launched and funded Alaska Star Ventures LLC, an investment arm with a primary focus on identifying and funding companies working on emerging green technologies. Alaska also announced a collaboration with ZeroAvia to begin development on a hydrogen-electric powertrain engine capable of flying regional aircraft in excess of 500 nautical miles. In 2021, Alaska Star Ventures funded $5 million, and has goals to contribute an additional $33 million of cash and in-kind investments through 2028. Alaska and Horizon also continue to expand the use of electric ground equipment at airports. 

•Harnessing carbon offset technology - To close any remaining gaps on the path to net-zero, we have partnered with industry experts to identify and vet credible, high-quality carbon offsetting technologies.

In alignment with our sustainability goals, we joined the Climate Pledge in 2021, an Amazon-led initiative to limit emissions that includes more than 200 companies. Also in 2021, we included a carbon emissions metric in our company-wide Performance-Based Pay program, as we believe it is important to embed these critical targets into the incentives that align all of our employees. 

Aside from our commitments to reducing our airlines' carbon footprint, we also recognize the impact our operation has in generating waste. In 2018, we were the first U.S. airline to remove plastic straws and stir sticks from our aircraft and in 2019, we launched a campaign called #FillBeforeYouFly to engage our employees and guests in reducing plastic waste. In 2021, we expanded inflight sustainability efforts by trading plastic water bottles and cups for plant-based cartons and recyclable paper cups. Alaska leads the industry in inflight recycling, and continues to evaluate new ways to further reduce inflight waste. 

HUMAN CAPITAL

OUR PEOPLE

Our business is labor intensive. As of December 31, 2021, we employed 22,833 (17,054 at Alaska, 3,494 at Horizon, and 2,285 at McGee Air Services) active employees. Of those employees, 90% are full-time and 10% are part-time. Wages and benefits, including variable incentive pay, represented approximately 56% of our total non-fuel operating expenses in 2021 and 47% in 2020. 

Most major airlines, including Alaska and Horizon, have employee groups that are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Airlines with unionized workforces generally have higher labor costs than carriers without unionized workforces. Those with unionized workforces may not have the ability to adjust labor costs downward quickly in response to new competition or slowing demand. At December 31, 2021, labor unions represented 86% of Alaska’s, 50% of Horizon’s, and 87% of McGee Air Services' employees. 

Our relations with U.S. labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements do not expire, but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed by the RLA and/or described in the agreement. After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board to initiate a process including mediation, arbitration, and a potential “cooling off” period that must be followed before either party may engage in self-help.

13

Alaska’s union contracts at December 31, 2021 were as follows: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Negotiations with ALPA for an updated collective bargaining agreement are ongoing as of the date of this filing. In September 2021, Alaska Airlines engaged the National Mediation Board to assist in negotiations.

(b)As a result of amendments to Mexican labor laws, the Company has up to four years to make changes to the existing labor agreements. During that time, the existing contracts remain in place.

Horizon’s union contracts at December 31, 2021 were as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Negotiations with AMFA for an updated collective bargaining agreement began in November 2021. Horizon and AMFA reached a tentative agreement in January 2022, voting on which remains open as of the date of this filing. 

McGee Air Services union contract at December 31, 2021 was as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

With the dramatic decline in demand we experienced in 2020, our workforce was larger than necessary to support our operational and business needs. To help stabilize the business, we utilized temporary workforce reduction mechanisms, including early-out and voluntary leave programs which were available to all frontline work groups. We also offered incentive leaves to Alaska pilots and mechanics. As demand significantly rebounded in late spring 2021, Alaska began recalling employees from leave programs prior to their intended expiry, with all employees on leave returned to active employment by October 2021.

Alaska and Horizon invest in employee programs and training that aid advancement throughout the Company. Our Pilot Pathways Program provides a clear and direct path for Horizon pilots to progress to mainline flying has advanced 263 pilots since inception in 2018. In 2021, we also created an internal maintenance technician development program, which will provide eligible employees with financial assistance to enhance and develop skills with the goal of becoming a certified maintenance technician. Providing meaningful advancement opportunities to employees throughout Air Group is important, and we continue to evaluate new programs which support our people and advance our long-term strategic goals.

14

DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION

At Alaska and Horizon, we believe that every person deserves respect regardless of race, ethnicity, capability, age, gender, or sexual orientation. We are committed to advancing equity in all forms, and have set specific and measurable goals to deliver on our commitments to racial equity and diversity by 2025. Our primary goals in this arena are to increase racial diversity in our leadership team and build a culture of inclusion for all employees. 

We are also working with existing partners such as United Negro College Fund (UNCF) to create career pathways for at least 175,000 young people. As a reflection of the importance of these commitments, a portion of long-term executive compensation has been tied to achievement of these goals. 

COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT

Alaska and Horizon are dedicated to actively supporting the communities we serve. In 2021, Air Group companies donated $11 million in cash and in-kind travel to approximately 900 charitable organizations, and our employees volunteered more than 21,000 hours of community service related to youth and education, medical research and transportation. Our cargo business also provided critical support to communities in need by transporting essential goods and shipments of COVID-19 vaccines throughout the state of Alaska.

The Alaska Airlines Foundation (the Foundation) also provides grants to nonprofits that offer educational and career-development programs to young people. Organizations are invited to apply bi-annually for grants ranging from $5,000 to $20,000, with preference given to organizations that can demonstrate partnership and long-term program sustainability. Since inception in 1999, the Foundation has donated more than $3 million in grants, including nearly $260,000 in 2021. 

For more details on the Company's environmental, social and governance goals, strategy and roadmap for success, refer to the annual LIFT report on our website, www.alaskaair.com/lift. The information contained on our sustainability website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

15

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and its primary subsidiaries, Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Horizon Air Industries, who have significant decision-making responsibilities, their positions and their respective ages are as follows:

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mr. Minicucci was elected President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Alaska Air Group effective March 31, 2021, and has been President of Alaska Airlines since May 2016. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President/Operations of Alaska Airlines from December 2008 to May 2016, and was Alaska’s Chief Operating Officer from December 2008 until November 2019. He was Chief Executive Officer of Virgin America Inc. from December 2016 to July 2018, when Virgin America was merged into Alaska. He leads Air Group’s Management Executive Committee, and was elected to the Alaska Air Group Board of Directors in May 2020. 

Mr. Tackett was elected Chief Financial Officer in March 2020 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Tackett joined Alaska Airlines in 2000 and has served in a number of roles including Managing Director Financial Planning and Analysis (2008-2010), Vice President Labor Relations (2010-2015), Vice President Revenue Management (2016), Senior Vice President Revenue and E-commerce (2017-2018), and Executive Vice President Planning and Strategy (2018-2020). 

Mr. Levine was elected Senior Vice President Legal and General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in January 2020 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Levine was previously Vice President Legal and General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines (January 2016 - January 2020). He was elected Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in August 2017 and of Horizon Air in January 2020. Mr. Levine joined Alaska Airlines in February 2006 as a Senior Attorney. He also served as Associate General Counsel and Managing Director Commercial Law and General Litigation from July 2009 to February 2011 and, subsequently, as Deputy General Counsel and Managing Director of Legal at Alaska Airlines from February 2011 to January 2016. 

Mr. Sprague was elected President of Horizon Air effective November 6, 2019 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Sprague previously served as Senior Vice President External Relations of Alaska Airlines from May 2014 until his resignation in September 2017. Mr. Sprague also served Alaska Airlines as Vice President of Marketing from March 2010 to April 2014 and Vice President of Alaska Air Cargo from April 2008 to March 2010.

16

Mr. Harrison was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer in August 2015. He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee. Mr. Harrison joined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as the Managing Director of Internal Audit and was elected Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management in 2008. He was elected Senior Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management in 2014 and Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer in February 2015. 

Ms. von Muehlen was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines effective April 3, 2021 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice President of Maintenance and Engineering of Alaska Airlines from January 2019 to April 2021. Ms. von Muehlen served as Chief Operating Officer at Horizon Air from January 2018 to January 2019, and Managing Director of Airframe, Engine, Components MRO at Alaska Airlines from December 2012 to January 2018. 

Ms. Schneider was elected Senior Vice President of People at Alaska Airlines in June 2019 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Ms. Schneider was previously Vice President of People at Alaska (August 2017-May 2019) Vice President of Inflight Services at Alaska (2011-2017), and later also took responsibility for Call Centers at Alaska (February 2017). She began her career at Alaska as Manager of Financial Accounting in 1989 and she has held a number of positions until her election in 2011.

Ms. Birkett-Rakow was elected Senior Vice President of Public Affairs and Sustainability at Alaska Airlines in November 2021. She was previously elected Vice President of Public Affairs and Sustainability in February 2021 and also served as Vice President of External Relations at Alaska Airlines from September 2017 to February 2021. Ms. Birkett Rakow is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.

REGULATION

GENERAL

The airline industry is highly regulated, most notably by the federal government. The Department of Transportation (DOT), the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the FAA exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.

•DOT: A domestic airline is required to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT in order to provide passenger and cargo air transportation in the U.S. Subject to certain individual airport capacity, noise and other restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier to operate between any two points in the U.S. Certificates do not expire, but may be revoked for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders or the terms of the certificates. While airlines are permitted to establish their own fares without government regulation, the DOT has jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, marketing alliance agreements between major domestic carriers, international and some domestic route authorities, Essential Air Service market subsidies, carrier liability for personal or property damage, and certain airport rates and charges disputes. International treaties may also contain restrictions or requirements for flying outside of the U.S. and impose different carrier liability limits than those applicable to domestic flights. The DOT has been active in implementing a variety of consumer protection regulations, covering subjects such as advertising, passenger communications, denied boarding compensation and tarmac delay response. Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the DOT for alleged violations of consumer protection and other economic regulations. We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 

•FAA: The FAA, through Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs), generally regulates all aspects of airline operations, including establishing personnel, maintenance and flight operation standards. Domestic airlines are required to hold a valid air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA. Pursuant to these regulations, we have established, and the FAA has approved, our operations specifications and a maintenance program for each type of aircraft we operate. Each maintenance program provides for the ongoing maintenance of the relevant aircraft type, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls. Periodically, the FAA issues Airworthiness Directives (ADs) that must be incorporated into our aircraft maintenance program and operations. All airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the FAA from time to time for alleged violations of FARs or ADs. At this time, we are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 

•TSA: Airlines serving the U.S. must operate a TSA-approved Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program (AOSSP), and comply with TSA Security Directives (SDs) and regulations. Under TSA authority, we are required to collect a September 11 Security Fee of $5.60 per one-way trip from passengers and remit that sum to the government to fund aviation security measures. Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the TSA for alleged violations of the AOSSP, 

17

SDs or security regulations. We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 

The Department of Justice and DOT have jurisdiction over airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the RLA. To the extent we continue to fly to foreign countries and pursue alliances with international carriers, we may be subject to certain regulations of foreign agencies and international treaties.

We are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The OSHA and other federal agencies have been authorized to create and enforce regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under these federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted employee safety and health laws and regulations. We maintain our safety and health programs in order to meet or exceed these requirements.

ENVIRONMENTAL

We are also subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters, both domestically and internationally. Domestic regulations that have an impact to our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act (including Environmental Justice), Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Many state and local environmental regulations exceed these federal regulations. In the future we expect there to be incremental legislation aimed at further reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous substances and additional focus on environmental justice. 

The Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have established aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. We believe we have sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions.

The domestic US airline industry committed to carbon neutral growth starting in 2020. Through this commitment we have joined participation in the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), a global, market-based emissions offset program issued by the International Civil Aviation Organization to be carbon neutral for international growth. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the growth baseline year was modified and set to 2019 during the initial phase. This does not have a direct impact on domestic flights, however the EPA finalized a rule in 2020 on aircraft emission standards which aligns with the international agreements. Additional commitments to decarbonize through the Paris Climate Accord and domestic carbon neutrality remain a potential impact to our industry. 

At this time we do not currently anticipate adverse financial impacts from any specific existing or pending environmental regulation or reporting requirements, new regulations, related to our existing or past operations, or compliance issues could harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.

INSURANCE

We carry insurance of types customary in the airline industry and in amounts deemed adequate to protect our interests and property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain credit and lease agreements. The insurance policies principally provide coverage for airline hull, spares and comprehensive legal liability, war and allied perils, and workers’ compensation. In addition, we currently carry a cyber insurance policy in the event of security breaches from malicious parties. 

We believe that our emphasis on safety and our state-of-the-art flight deck safety technology help to control the cost of our insurance.

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION

Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website at www.alaskaair.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

18

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Adjusted Net Debt - long-term debt, including current portion, plus capitalized operating leases, less cash and marketable securities

Adjusted Net Debt to EBITDAR - represents adjusted net debt divided by EBITDAR (trailing twelve months earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, special items and rent)

Aircraft Utilization - block hours per day; this represents the average number of hours per day our aircraft are in transit

Aircraft Stage Length - represents the average miles flown per aircraft departure

ASMs - available seat miles, or “capacity”; represents total seats available across the fleet multiplied by the number of miles flown

CASM - operating costs per ASM, or "unit cost"; represents all operating expenses including fuel and special items

CASMex - operating costs excluding fuel and special items per ASM; this metric is used to help track progress toward reduction of non-fuel operating costs since fuel is largely out of our control

Debt-to-Capitalization Ratio - represents adjusted debt (long-term debt plus capitalized operating lease liabilities) divided by total equity plus adjusted debt

Diluted Earnings per Share - represents earnings per share (EPS) using fully diluted shares outstanding

Diluted Shares - represents the total number of shares that would be outstanding if all possible sources of conversion, such as stock options, were exercised

Economic Fuel - best estimate of the cash cost of fuel, net of the impact of our fuel-hedging program

Load Factor - RPMs as a percentage of ASMs; represents the number of available seats that were filled with paying passengers

Mainline - represents flying Boeing 737, Airbus 320 family and Airbus 321neo jets and all associated revenues and costs

Productivity - number of revenue passengers per full-time equivalent employee

RASM - operating revenue per ASMs, or "unit revenue"; operating revenue includes all passenger revenue, freight & mail, Mileage Plan and other ancillary revenue; represents the average total revenue for flying one seat one mile

Regional - represents capacity purchased by Alaska from Horizon and SkyWest. Financial results in this segment include actual on-board passenger revenue, less costs such as fuel, distribution costs, and payments made to Horizon and SkyWest under the respective capacity purchased arrangement (CPA). Additionally, Regional includes an allocation of corporate overhead such as IT, finance, and other administrative costs incurred by Air Group and on behalf of Horizon

RPMs - revenue passenger miles, or "traffic"; represents the number of seats that were filled with paying passengers; one passenger traveling one mile is one RPM

Yield - passenger revenue per RPM; represents the average revenue for flying one passenger one mile

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS