Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Assets Under Management Market Price Risk

Our Consolidated revenue and equity method revenue are derived primarily from asset-based fees that are typically determined as a percentage of the value of a client’s assets under management. Such values are affected by changes in financial markets (including declines in the capital markets, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates or the yield curve, and other market factors) and, accordingly, declines in the financial markets may negatively impact our Consolidated revenue and equity method revenue. 

As of December 31, 2021, we estimate a proportional 1% change in the value of our assets under management would have resulted in a $22.3 million annualized change in asset-based fees in Consolidated revenue for our consolidated Affiliates and a $13.9 million annualized change in asset-based fees in equity method revenue for our Affiliates accounted for under the equity method. This proportional increase or decrease excludes assets under management on which asset-based fees are charged on committed capital.

Interest Rate Risk

We have fixed rates of interest on our senior notes, junior subordinated notes, and junior convertible securities. While a change in market interest rates would not affect the interest expense incurred on our fixed rate securities, such a change may affect the fair value of these securities. We estimate that a 1% change in interest rates would have resulted in a $120.7 million net change in the fair value of our fixed rate securities as of December 31, 2021. We pay a variable rate of interest on our credit 

36
facilities at specified rates, based either on an applicable LIBOR or prime rate, plus a marginal rate determined based on our credit rating. As of December 31, 2021, the interest rate for our outstanding borrowings under the credit facilities was LIBOR plus 0.85%. We estimate that a 1% change in interest rates would have changed our annual interest expense on the outstanding balances under our credit facilities by $3.5 million, as of December 31, 2021. 

As of the end of 2021, LIBOR has been discontinued for certain currency settings, including all sterling and euro settings, and is expected to be discontinued for U.S. dollar settings by June 2023 and replaced with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate. There remains uncertainty as to the timing of the remaining transition, the performance of replacement rates, and the performance of LIBOR during the transition period. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. We and our Affiliates have been monitoring these developments, and we currently do not expect to be significantly impacted by this transition. Our credit facilities were amended in 2021 to include customary LIBOR succession provisions, as further described in the respective agreements. We will continue to monitor and evaluate developments with respect to LIBOR as the potential end-date for LIBOR approaches.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

The functional currency of most of our Affiliates is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our Affiliates have the pound sterling or the Canadian dollar as their functional currency, and are, therefore, impacted by movements in pound sterling and Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, the valuations of our foreign Affiliates with a non-U.S. dollar functional currency change based on fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, among other factors. Changes due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are recorded as a component of stockholders’ equity. 

 To illustrate the effect of possible changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we estimate a 1% change in the pound sterling and Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rates would have resulted in a $10.4 million and $2.1 million change to stockholders’ equity, respectively, based on the December 31, 2021 carrying value of Affiliates whose functional currency is the pound sterling or the Canadian dollar, and of our and our Affiliates’ pound sterling-denominated derivative financial instruments. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we estimate a 1% change in the pound sterling and the Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rates would have resulted in $1.4 million and $0.1 million in annual changes to Income before income taxes (controlling interest), respectively.

Derivative Risk

From time to time, we and our Affiliates seek to offset exposure to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and markets by entering into derivative financial instruments. There can be no assurance that our or our Affiliates’ derivative financial instruments will meet their overall objective or that we or our Affiliates will be successful in entering into such instruments in the future.

37
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data