ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations that follow are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates and such differences could be material to the financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and the accompanying notes, and the information set forth under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” below.

During the fourth quarter of 2021, as a result of the CoreSite Acquisition, we updated our reportable segments to add a Data Centers segment. The Data Centers segment is included within our property operations. We will now report our results in seven segments – U.S. & Canada property (which includes all assets in the United States and Canada, other than our data center facilities and related assets), Asia-Pacific property, Africa property, Europe property, Latin America property, Data Centers and Services. We believe this change provides greater visibility into our operating segments and aligns our reporting with management’s current approach of allocating costs and resources, managing growth and profitability and assessing the operating performance of our business segments. This change applies to our business operations results beginning with the fourth quarter of 2021 and had no impact on our consolidated financial statements for any prior periods. Historical financial information included in this Annual Report has not been adjusted as the amounts attributable to data center assets were insignificant as prior to to the fourth quarter of 2021, we owned one data center. 

In evaluating financial performance in each business segment, management uses, among other factors, segment gross margin and segment operating profit (see note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report). 

Executive Overview

We are one of the largest global REITs and a leading independent owner, operator and developer of multitenant communications real estate. Our primary business is the leasing of space on communications sites to wireless service providers, radio and television broadcast companies, wireless data providers, government agencies and municipalities and tenants in a number of other industries. In addition to the communications sites in our portfolio, we manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners under various contractual arrangements. We also hold other telecommunications infrastructure, fiber and property interests that we lease primarily to communications service providers and third-party tower operators, and, as discussed further below, we hold a portfolio of highly interconnected data center facilities and related assets in the United States. Our customers include our tenants, licensees and other payers. We refer to the business encompassing the above as our property operations, which accounted for 97% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 and includes our U.S. & Canada property, Asia-Pacific property, Africa property, Europe property and Latin America property segments and Data Centers segment. 

We also offer tower-related services in the United States, including site application, zoning and permitting and structural analysis, which primarily support our site leasing business, including the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. 

23

Table of Contents 

The following table details the number of communications sites, excluding managed sites, that we owned or operated as of December 31, 2021:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______________

(1)Approximately 95% of the operated towers are held pursuant to long-term finance leases, including those subject to purchase options. 

(2)We also control land under carrier or other third-party communications sites in Australia, which provides recurring cash flow through tenant leasing arrangements.

In January 2021, we entered into the Telxius Acquisition, pursuant to which we agreed to acquire Telxius’ European and Latin American tower divisions, comprising approximately 31,000 communications sites in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Germany, Peru and Spain, for approximately 7.7 billion EUR (approximately $9.4 billion at the date of signing), subject to certain adjustments. We completed the acquisition of nearly 27,000 communications sites in June 2021 and acquired the approximately 4,000 remaining communications sites in Germany in August 2021, for total consideration of approximately 7.9 billion EUR (approximately $9.6 billion as of the closing dates), subject to certain post-closing adjustments.

In December 2021, we completed the CoreSite Acquisition, through which we acquired over 20 data center facilities and related assets in eight United States markets, for total consideration of $10.4 billion, including the assumption and repayment of CoreSite’s existing debt.

As of December 31, 2021, our property portfolio included 27 operating data center facilities across ten markets in the United States that collectively comprise approximately 3.1 million NRSF of data center space, as detailed below: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______________

(1)Excludes approximately 0.4 million of office and light-industrial NRSF acquired as part of the CoreSite Acquisition.

In most of our markets, our tenant leases for our communications sites with wireless carriers generally have initial non-cancellable terms of five to ten years with multiple renewal terms. Accordingly, the vast majority of the revenue generated by our property operations during the year ended December 31, 2021 was recurring revenue that we should continue to receive in future periods. Most of our tenant leases for our communications sites have provisions that periodically increase the rent due under the lease, typically based on an annual fixed escalation (averaging approximately 3% in the United States) or an inflationary index in most of our international markets, or a combination of both. In addition, certain of our tenant leases provide for additional revenue primarily to cover costs, such as ground rent or power and fuel costs. 

Based upon existing customer leases and foreign currency exchange rates as of December 31, 2021, we expect to generate over $61 billion of non-cancellable customer lease revenue over future periods, before the impact of straight-line lease accounting. 

The revenues generated by our property operations may be affected by cancellations of existing tenant leases. As discussed above, most of our tenant leases with wireless carriers and broadcasters are multiyear contracts, which typically are non-cancellable; however, in some instances, a lease may be cancelled upon the payment of a termination fee.

Revenue lost from either tenant lease cancellations or the non-renewal of leases or rent renegotiations, which we refer to as churn, has historically not had a material adverse effect on the revenues generated by our consolidated property operations. During the year ended December 31, 2021, churn was approximately 4% of our tenant billings. 

Beginning in late 2017, we experienced an increase in revenue lost from cancellations or non-renewals primarily due to carrier consolidation-driven churn in India, which compressed our gross margin and operating profit, particularly in our Asia-Pacific property segment, although this impact was partially offset by lower expenses due to reduced tenancy on existing sites and the decommissioning of certain sites. For the year ended December 31, 2021, aggregate carrier consolidation in India did not have a material impact on our consolidated property revenue, gross margin or operating profit, although overall churn rates in India remained elevated relative to historical levels.

We anticipate that our churn rate in India will moderate over time and result in reduced impacts on our property revenue, gross margin and operating profit. In the immediate term, we believe that our churn rate may remain elevated as our tenants in India evaluate how best to comply with the recent court rulings by the Supreme Court of India and determine their obligations under payment plans for the AGR fees and charges prescribed by such court, as further discussed in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors—Our business, and that of our customers, is subject to laws, regulations and administrative and judicial decisions, and changes thereto, that could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do or impact our competitive landscape.” We expect to periodically evaluate the carrying value of our Indian assets, which may result in the realization of additional impairment expense or other similar charges. For more information, please see the information under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.”

Additionally, we expect that our churn rate in our U.S. & Canada property segment will remain elevated for a period of several years due to contractual lease cancellations and non-renewals by T-Mobile, including legacy Sprint Corporation leases, pursuant to the terms of the T-Mobile MLA entered into in September 2020.

As further set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors,” the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the response to mitigate its spread and effects, may adversely impact us and our customers and the demand for our communications infrastructure in the United States and globally. We have taken a variety of actions to ensure the continued availability of our communications infrastructure assets, while ensuring the safety and security of our employees, customers, 

24

Table of Contents 

vendors and surrounding communities. These measures include providing support for our customers remotely, supporting continued work-from-home arrangements and restricting travel for our employees where practicable and other modifications to our business practices. We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions as may be required by governmental authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers and business partners.

Property Operations Revenue Growth. Due to our diversified communications site portfolio, our tenant lease rates vary considerably depending upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, amount, type and position of tenant equipment on the tower, remaining tower capacity and tower location. We measure the remaining tower capacity by assessing several factors, including tower height, tower type, environmental conditions, existing equipment on the tower and zoning and permitting regulations in effect in the jurisdiction where the tower is located. In many instances, tower capacity can be increased with relatively modest tower augmentation capital expenditures, which are often reimbursed to us.

The primary factors affecting the revenue growth of our property segments are:

•Growth in tenant billings, including:

•New revenue attributable to leasing additional space on our sites (“colocations”) and lease amendments; 

•Contractual rent escalations on existing tenant leases, net of churn; and

•New revenue attributable to leases in place on day one on sites acquired or constructed since the beginning of the prior-year period.

•Revenue growth from our Data Centers segment in the United States, including growth attributable to increased customer demand for space, power and interconnection services and solutions.

•Revenue growth from other items, including additional tenant payments primarily to cover costs, such as ground rent or power and fuel costs included in certain tenant leases (“pass-through”), straight-line revenue and decommissioning.

We continue to believe that our site leasing revenue, which makes up the vast majority of our property segment revenue, is likely to increase due to the growing use of wireless services globally and our ability to meet the corresponding incremental demand for our communications real estate. By adding new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants on our sites, we are able to increase these sites’ utilization and profitability. We believe the majority of our site leasing activity will continue to come from wireless service providers, with tenants in a number of other industries contributing incremental leasing demand. Our site portfolio and our established tenant base provide us with new business opportunities, which have historically resulted in consistent and predictable organic revenue growth as wireless carriers seek to increase the coverage and capacity of their existing networks, while also deploying next generation wireless technologies. In addition, we intend to continue to supplement our organic growth by selectively developing or acquiring new sites in our existing and new markets where we can achieve our risk-adjusted return on investment objectives. 

Property Operations Organic Revenue Growth. Consistent with our strategy to increase the utilization and return on investment from our sites, our objective is to add new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants through colocation and lease amendments. Our ability to lease additional space on our sites is primarily a function of the rate at which wireless carriers and other tenants deploy capital to improve and expand their wireless networks. This rate, in turn, is influenced by the growth of wireless services, the penetration of advanced wireless devices, the level of emphasis on network quality and capacity in carrier competition, the financial performance of our tenants and their access to capital and general economic conditions. According to industry data, recent aggregate annual wireless capital spending in the United States has averaged at least $30 billion, resulting in consistent demand for our sites. 

Based on industry research and projections, we expect that a number of key industry trends will result in incremental revenue opportunities for us:

•In less advanced wireless markets where network deployments are in earlier stages, we expect these deployments to drive demand for our tower space as carriers seek to expand their footprints and increase the scope and density of their networks. We have established operations in many of these markets at the early stages of wireless development, which we believe will enable us to meaningfully participate in these deployments over the long term.

•Subscribers’ use of mobile data continues to grow rapidly given increasing smartphone and other advanced device penetration, the proliferation of bandwidth-intensive applications on these devices and the continuing evolution of the mobile ecosystem. We believe carriers will be compelled to deploy additional equipment on existing networks while also rolling out more advanced wireless networks to address coverage and capacity needs resulting from this increasing mobile data usage.

•The deployment of advanced mobile technology, such as 4G and 5G, will provide higher speed data services and further enable fixed broadband substitution. As a result, we expect that our tenants will continue deploying additional equipment across their existing networks.

•Wireless service providers compete based on the quality of their networks, which is driven by capacity and coverage. To maintain or improve their network performance as overall network usage increases, our tenants continue to deploy 

25

Table of Contents 

additional equipment across their existing sites while also adding new cell sites. We anticipate increasing network densification over the next several years, as existing network density is anticipated to be insufficient to account for rapidly increasing levels of wireless data usage. 

•Wireless service providers continue to acquire additional spectrum, and as a result are expected to add additional sites and equipment to their networks as they seek to optimize their network configuration and utilize additional spectrum. We expect this to be particularly relevant in the context of higher-band spectrum such as 2.5 gigahertz (GHz) and C-Band being deployed for 5G, as these spectrum assets tend to have more limited propagation characteristics compared to the lower-band spectrum that has historically been deployed on our towers.

•Next generation technologies requiring wireless connectivity have the potential to provide incremental revenue opportunities for us. These technologies may include edge computing functionality, autonomous vehicle networks and a number of other internet-of-things, or IoT, applications, as well as other potential use cases for wireless services. These technologies may create new and complementary use cases for our communications real estate over time, although these use cases are currently in nascent stages.

•Continued data growth and emerging high-performance, latency-sensitive applications will drive an increased need for reliable, secure and interconnected data center solutions. We believe these trends will result in incremental utilization and interconnection demand at our data center facilities. 

As part of our international expansion initiatives, we have targeted markets in various stages of network development to diversify our international exposure and position us to benefit from a number of different wireless technology deployments over the long term. In addition, we have focused on building relationships with large multinational carriers to increase the opportunities for growth or mutually beneficial transactional opportunities across common markets. We believe that consistent carrier network investments across our international markets will, over the long term, position us to generate meaningful organic revenue growth going forward.

In emerging markets, such as Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Ghana, India, Kenya, Niger, Nigeria, the Philippines and Uganda, wireless networks tend to be significantly less advanced than those in the United States, and initial voice networks continue to be deployed in certain underdeveloped areas. A majority of consumers in these markets still utilize basic wireless services and advanced device penetration remains low. In more developed urban locations within these markets, mobile data usage tends to be higher and advanced network deployments are further along. Carriers are focused on completing voice network build-outs while increasing investments in data networks as mobile data usage and smartphone penetration within their customer bases begin to accelerate. 

In India, the ongoing transition from 2G technology to 4G technology has included a period of carrier consolidation, whereby the number of carriers operating in the marketplace has been reduced through mergers, acquisitions and select carrier exits from the marketplace, which we believe is now substantially complete. We believe that this consolidation process has resulted in an industry structure for both the wireless carriers and communications infrastructure providers that will be more conducive to sustained growth and profitability over time. 

In markets with rapidly evolving network technology, such as South Africa, Poland and most of the countries in Latin America where we do business, initial voice networks, for the most part, have already been built out, and carriers are increasingly focused on 4G network deployments. Consumers in these regions are increasingly adopting smartphones and other advanced devices, in particular as lower cost smartphones become increasingly available. As a result, the usage of bandwidth-intensive mobile applications is growing materially. Recent spectrum auctions in these rapidly evolving markets have allowed incumbent carriers to accelerate their data network deployments and have also enabled new entrants to begin initial investments in data networks. Smartphone penetration and wireless data usage in these markets are advancing rapidly, which typically requires that carriers continue to invest in their networks to maintain and augment their quality of service.

Finally, in markets with more mature network technology, such as Australia, Canada, Germany, France and Spain, carriers are focused on deploying 4G data networks to account for rapidly increasing wireless data usage among their customer base. With higher smartphone and advanced device penetration and significantly higher per capita data usage, carrier investment in networks is focused on 4G coverage and capacity, as well as the early stages of 5G deployment.

We believe that the network technology migration we have seen in the United States, which has led to significantly denser networks and meaningful new business commencements for us over a number of years, will be replicated in our international markets over time. As a result, we expect to be able to leverage our extensive international portfolio of approximately 177,000 communications sites and the relationships we have built with our carrier tenants to drive sustainable, long-term growth.

We have master lease agreements with many of our tenants for our communications sites that provide for consistent, long-term revenue and reduce the likelihood of non-contractual churn. Certain of those master lease agreements are comprehensive in nature and further build and augment strong strategic partnerships with our tenants while significantly reducing colocation cycle times, thereby providing our tenants with the ability to rapidly and efficiently deploy equipment on our sites.

26

Table of Contents 

Demand for our communications infrastructure assets could be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including an increase in network sharing or consolidation among our customers, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the captions “Risk Factors—If our customers consolidate their operations, exit their businesses or share site infrastructure to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be materially and adversely affected” and “Risk Factors—A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers, and we are sensitive to adverse changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our customers.” In addition, the emergence and growth of new technologies could reduce demand for our sites, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—New technologies or changes in our or a customer’s business model could make our communications infrastructure leasing business less desirable and result in decreasing revenues and operating results.” Further, our customers may be subject to new regulatory policies from time to time that materially and adversely affect the demand for our communications infrastructure assets.

Property Operations New Site Revenue Growth. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we grew our portfolio of communications real estate through the acquisition and construction of approximately 38,950 communications sites globally. In a majority of our Asia-Pacific, Africa, Europe and Latin America markets, the revenue generated from newly acquired or constructed sites resulted in increases in both tenant and pass-through revenues (such as ground rent or power and fuel costs) and expenses. We continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire communications real estate portfolios, both domestically and internationally, to determine whether they meet our risk-adjusted hurdle rates and whether we believe we can effectively integrate them into our existing portfolio.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we also grew our portfolio of data center facilities through the acquisition of over 20 data center facilities and related assets in the United States, including through the CoreSite Acquisition.

Property Operations Expenses. Direct operating expenses incurred by our property segments include direct site or facility level expenses and consist primarily of ground rent and power and fuel costs, some or all of which may be passed through to our customers, as well as property taxes and repairs and maintenance expenses. These segment direct operating expenses exclude all segment and corporate selling, general, administrative and development expenses, which are aggregated into one line item entitled Selling, general, administrative and development expense in our consolidated statements of operations. In general, our property segments’ selling, general, administrative and development expenses do not significantly increase as a result of adding incremental customers to our sites or facilities and typically increase only modestly year-over-year. As a result, leasing additional space to new customers on our sites or within our facilities provides significant incremental gross margin and cash flow. We may, however, incur additional segment selling, general, administrative and development expenses as we increase our presence in our existing markets or expand into new markets. Our profit margin growth is therefore positively impacted by the addition of new customers to our sites or facilities but can be temporarily diluted by our development activities.

Services Segment Revenue Growth. As we continue to focus on growing our property operations, we anticipate that our services revenue will continue to represent a small percentage of our total revenues. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Included in our analysis of our results of operations are discussions regarding earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted (“Adjusted EBITDA”), Funds From Operations, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“Nareit FFO”) attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders, Consolidated Adjusted Funds From Operations (“Consolidated AFFO”) and AFFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders.

We define Adjusted EBITDA as Net income before Income (loss) from equity method investments; Income tax benefit (provision); Other income (expense); Gain (loss) on retirement of long-term obligations; Interest expense; Interest income; Other operating income (expense); Depreciation, amortization and accretion; and stock-based compensation expense. 

Nareit FFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders is defined as net income before gains or losses from the sale or disposal of real estate, real estate related impairment charges, real estate related depreciation, amortization and accretion and dividends on preferred stock, and including adjustments for (i) unconsolidated affiliates and (ii) noncontrolling 

27

Table of Contents 

interests. In this section, we refer to Nareit FFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders as “Nareit FFO (common stockholders).” 

We define Consolidated AFFO as Nareit FFO (common stockholders) before (i) straight-line revenue and expense; (ii) stock-based compensation expense; (iii) the deferred portion of income tax and other income tax adjustments; (iv) non-real estate related depreciation, amortization and accretion; (v) amortization of deferred financing costs, capitalized interest, debt discounts and premiums and long-term deferred interest charges; (vi) other income (expense); (vii) gain (loss) on retirement of long-term obligations; (viii) other operating income (expense); and adjustments for (ix) unconsolidated affiliates and (x) noncontrolling interests, less cash payments related to capital improvements and cash payments related to corporate capital expenditures. 

We define AFFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders as Consolidated AFFO, excluding the impact of noncontrolling interests on both Nareit FFO (common stockholders) and the other adjustments included in the calculation of Consolidated AFFO. In this section, we refer to AFFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders as “AFFO (common stockholders).” 

Adjusted EBITDA, Nareit FFO (common stockholders), Consolidated AFFO and AFFO (common stockholders) are not intended to replace net income or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP. None of Adjusted EBITDA, Nareit FFO (common stockholders), Consolidated AFFO or AFFO (common stockholders) represents cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and, therefore, these measures should not be considered indicative of cash flows from operating activities, as a measure of liquidity or a measure of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. Rather, Adjusted EBITDA, Nareit FFO (common stockholders), Consolidated AFFO and AFFO (common stockholders) are presented as we believe each is a useful indicator of our current operating performance. We believe that these metrics are useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because (1) each is a key measure used by our management team for decision making purposes and for evaluating our operating segments’ performance; (2) Adjusted EBITDA is a component underlying our credit ratings; (3) Adjusted EBITDA is widely used in the telecommunications real estate sector to measure operating performance as depreciation, amortization and accretion may vary significantly among companies depending upon accounting methods and useful lives, particularly where acquisitions and non-operating factors are involved; (4) Consolidated AFFO is widely used in the telecommunications real estate sector to adjust Nareit FFO (common stockholders) for items that may otherwise cause material fluctuations in Nareit FFO (common stockholders) growth from period to period that would not be representative of the underlying performance of property assets in those periods; (5) each provides investors with a meaningful measure for evaluating our period-to-period operating performance by eliminating items that are not operational in nature; and (6) each provides investors with a measure for comparing our results of operations to those of other companies, particularly those in our industry.

Our measurement of Adjusted EBITDA, Nareit FFO (common stockholders), Consolidated AFFO and AFFO (common stockholders) may not, however, be fully comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA, Nareit FFO (common stockholders), Consolidated AFFO and AFFO (common stockholders) to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, have been included below.

28

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019

For a discussion of our 2020 Results of Operations, including a discussion of our financial results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, refer to Part I, Item 7 of our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 25, 2021 (the “2020 Form 10-K”).

During the fourth quarter of 2021, as a result of the CoreSite Acquisition, we updated our reportable segments to add a Data Centers segment. The Data Centers segment is included within our property operations. We will now report our results in seven segments – U.S. & Canada property (which includes all assets in the United States and Canada, other than our data center facilities and related assets), Asia-Pacific property, Africa property, Europe property, Latin America property, Data Centers and Services. We believe this change provides greater visibility into our operating segments and aligns our reporting with management’s current approach of allocating costs and resources, managing growth and profitability and assessing the operating performance of our business segments. This change applies to our business operations results beginning with the fourth quarter of 2021 and had no impact on our consolidated financial statements for any prior periods. Historical financial information included in this Annual Report has not been adjusted as the amounts attributable to data center assets were insignificant as prior to to the fourth quarter of 2021, we owned one data center. 

Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 

(in millions, except percentages) 

Revenue [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______________

(1) For the year ended December 31, 2020, U.S. & Canada includes $8.5 million of revenue attributable to our data center assets. For the year ended December 31, 2021, revenue attributable to our data center assets previously reported in the U.S. & Canada property segment is now shown in the Data Centers segment.

Year ended December 31, 2021 

U.S. & Canada property segment revenue growth of $403.2 million was attributable to: 

• Tenant billings growth of $287.6 million, which was driven by:

◦$168.2 million generated from newly acquired or constructed sites, primarily related to our acquisition of InSite Wireless Group, LLC (“InSite,” and the acquisition, the “InSite Acquisition”); and

◦$129.4 million due to colocations and amendments;

◦Partially offset by:

▪A decrease of $7.7 million from other tenant billings; and

▪A decrease of $2.3 million from churn in excess of contractual escalations (as discussed above, we expect that our churn rate will be elevated for a period of several years due to the terms of the T-Mobile MLA); and

• An increase of $115.6 million in other revenue, which includes a $143.7 million increase due to straight-line accounting, primarily due to the impact of the T-Mobile MLA, partially offset by a decrease in revenue attributable to our data center assets, which is presented in the Data Centers segment in the current period.

Segment revenue growth was not meaningfully impacted by foreign currency translation related to fluctuations in the Canadian Dollar. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the assets acquired pursuant to the InSite Acquisition generated approximately $153.7 million in U.S. & Canada property revenue.

29

Table of Contents 

Asia-Pacific property segment revenue growth of $59.7 million was attributable to:

• An increase of $41.6 million in pass-through revenue; and

• Tenant billings growth of $22.7 million, which was driven by:

◦$48.2 million due to colocations and amendments; and

◦$24.7 million generated from newly acquired or constructed sites;

◦Partially offset by:

▪A decrease of $49.1 million resulting from churn in excess of contractual escalations; and

▪A decrease of $1.1 million from other tenant billings;

• Partially offset by a decrease of $6.8 million in other revenue, primarily due to tenant settlements in the prior-year period.

Segment revenue growth included an increase of $2.2 million attributable to the positive impact of foreign currency translation related to fluctuations in Indian Rupee (“INR”).

Africa property segment revenue growth of $115.3 million was attributable to:

• Tenant billings growth of $90.6 million, which was driven by: 

◦$40.2 million due to colocations and amendments; 

◦$39.0 million generated from newly acquired or constructed sites;

◦$7.6 million from contractual escalations, net of churn; and

◦$3.8 million from other tenant billings; and

• An increase of $44.9 million in pass-through revenue;

• Partially offset by a decrease of $23.1 million in other revenue, primarily due to an increase in revenue reserves and a decrease in tenant settlements attributable to prior tenant cancellations. 

Segment revenue growth included an increase of $2.9 million attributable to the impact of foreign currency translation, which included, among others, positive impacts of $16.0 million related to fluctuations in South African Rand, partially offset by negative impacts related to fluctuations in the currencies of our other African markets, which included, among others, $12.2 million related to fluctuations in Nigerian Naira.

Europe property segment revenue growth of $346.6 million was attributable to:

• Tenant billings growth of $196.3 million, which was driven by: 

◦$189.8 million generated from newly acquired or constructed sites, primarily attributable to the Telxius Acquisition and our agreements with Orange S.A. (“Orange”);

◦$7.9 million due to colocations and amendments; and

◦$0.1 million from other tenant billings;

◦Partially offset by a decrease of $1.5 million resulting from churn in excess of contractual escalations;

• An increase of $128.9 million in pass-through revenue, primarily attributable to the Telxius Acquisition; and

• An increase of $14.9 million in other revenue, primarily attributable to straight-line accounting, the Telxius Acquisition and increases in back-billing.

Segment revenue growth included an increase of $6.5 million, primarily attributable to the positive impact of foreign currency translation related to fluctuations in EUR. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the assets acquired pursuant to the Telxius Acquisition generated approximately $318.0 million in Europe property revenue.

Latin America property segment revenue growth of $208.0 million was attributable to: 

• Tenant billings growth of $114.5 million, which was driven by:

◦$49.3 million generated from newly acquired or constructed sites, primarily attributable to the Telxius Acquisition;

◦$33.8 million due to colocations and amendments; 

◦$27.9 million from contractual escalations, net of churn; and

◦$3.5 million from other tenant billings;

• An increase of $72.3 million in pass-through revenue, primarily attributable to increased pass-through ground rent costs in Brazil and the Telxius Acquisition; and 

• An increase of $27.2 million in other revenue primarily as a result of a tenant settlement in Brazil. 

Segment revenue growth included a decrease of $6.0 million, attributable to the impact of foreign currency translation, which included, among others, negative impacts of $28.0 million related to fluctuations in Brazilian Real and $4.8 million related to fluctuations in Peruvian Sol, partially offset by positive impacts related to fluctuations in the currencies of our other Latin American markets, which included, among others, $25.3 million related to fluctuations in Mexican Peso. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the assets acquired pursuant to the Telxius Acquisition generated approximately $70.7 million in Latin America property revenue.

30

Table of Contents 

Data Centers segment revenue growth was attributable to data centers acquired in 2021, including through the CoreSite Acquisition. 

Services segment revenue growth of $159.4 million was primarily attributable to an increase in site application, zoning, permitting and structural analysis services.

Gross Margin[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______________

(1) For the year ended December 31, 2020, U.S. & Canada included $6.0 million of gross margin attributable to our data center assets. For the year ended December 31, 2021, gross margin attributable to our data center assets previously reported in the U.S. & Canada property segment is now shown in the Data Centers segment.

Year ended December 31, 2021 

•The increase in U.S. & Canada property segment gross margin was primarily attributable to the increase in revenue described above, partially offset by an increase in direct expenses of $45.5 million, including expenses due to the InSite Acquisition.

•The decrease in Asia-Pacific property segment gross margin was primarily attributable to an increase in direct expenses of $61.5 million, primarily due to an increase in costs associated with pass-through revenue, including fuel costs, partially offset by the increase in revenue described above. Direct expenses were also negatively impacted by $1.4 million from the impact of foreign currency translation.

•The increase in Africa property segment gross margin was primarily attributable to the increase in revenue described above, partially offset by an increase in direct expenses of $50.0 million. Direct expenses also benefited by $1.6 million from the impact of foreign currency translation.

•The increase in Europe property segment gross margin was primarily attributable to the increase in revenue described above, partially offset by an increase in direct expenses of $164.7 million, primarily due to the Telxius Acquisition. Direct expenses were also negatively impacted by $1.2 million from the impact of foreign currency translation. 

•The increase in Latin America property segment gross margin was primarily attributable to the increase in revenue described above, partially offset by an increase in direct expenses of $69.6 million, including expenses related to the Telxius Acquisition. Direct expenses also benefited by $3.8 million from the impact of foreign currency translation.

•The increase in Data Centers segment gross margin was attributable to data centers acquired in 2021, including through the CoreSite Acquisition. 

•The increase in Services segment gross margin was primarily due to the increase in revenue described above, partially offset by an increase in direct expenses of $60.2 million. 

31

Table of Contents 

Selling, General, Administrative and Development Expense (“SG&A”)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1) For the year ended December 31, 2020, U.S. & Canada included $3.2 million of SG&A attributable to our data center assets. For the year ended December 31, 2021, SG&A attributable to our data center assets previously reported in the U.S. & Canada property segment is now shown in the Data Centers segment.

Year Ended December 31, 2021 

•The increase in our U.S. & Canada property segment SG&A was primarily driven by increased personnel costs to support our business, including as a result of the InSite Acquisition, partially offset by lower canceled construction costs.

•The decrease in our Asia-Pacific property segment SG&A was primarily driven by a decrease in bad debt expense of $35.2 million.

•The decrease in our Africa property segment SG&A was primarily driven by a decrease in bad debt expense of $26.3 million.

•The increase in our Europe property segment SG&A was primarily driven by increased personnel costs to support our business, including as a result of the Telxius Acquisition.

•The increase in our Latin America property segment SG&A was primarily driven by an increase in bad debt expense of $8.3 million, as a result of receivable reserves with a tenant. 

•The increase in our Data Centers segment SG&A was attributable to data centers acquired in 2021, including through the CoreSite Acquisition. 

•The increase in our Services segment SG&A was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs to support our business.

•The increase in other SG&A was primarily driven by an increase in corporate SG&A, including an increase in personnel costs to support our business.

32

Table of Contents 

Operating Profit[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1) For the year ended December 31, 2020, U.S. & Canada included $2.8 million of operating profit attributable to our data center assets. For the year ended December 31, 2021, operating profit attributable to our data center assets previously reported in the U.S. & Canada property segment is now shown in the Data Centers segment.

Year Ended December 31, 2021 

•The increases in operating profit for our U.S. & Canada, Europe and Latin America property segments were primarily attributable to increases in our segment gross margin, partially offset by increases in our segment SG&A.

•The increase in operating profit for our Asia-Pacific property segment was primarily attributable to a decrease in our segment SG&A, partially offset by a decrease in our segment gross margin.

•The increase in operating profit for our Africa property segment was primarily attributable to an increase in our segment gross margin and a decrease in our segment SG&A.

•The increase in operating profit for our Data Centers segment was attributable to data centers acquired in 2021, including through the CoreSite Acquisition.

•The increase in operating profit for our Services segment was primarily attributable to an increase in our segment gross margin.

Depreciation, Amortization and Accretion[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in depreciation, amortization and accretion expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to the acquisition, lease or construction of new sites since the beginning of the prior-year period, including due to the InSite Acquisition, the Telxius Acquisition and the CoreSite Acquisition, which resulted in increases in property and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, partially offset by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

Other Operating Expenses[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in other operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to increases in acquisition related costs, including pre-acquisition contingencies and settlements of $175.6 million, primarily associated with the Telxius Acquisition and the CoreSite Acquisition. These items were partially offset by a decrease in impairment charges of $49.1 million.

Total Other Expense[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

33

Table of Contents 

Total other expense consists primarily of interest expense and realized and unrealized foreign currency gains and losses. We record unrealized foreign currency gains or losses as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily associated with our intercompany notes and similar unaffiliated balances denominated in a currency other than the subsidiaries’ functional currencies.

The decrease in total other expense during the year ended December 31, 2021 was due to foreign currency gains of $557.9 million in the current period, as compared to foreign currency losses of $216.4 million in the prior-year period, and a loss on retirement of long-term obligations of $38.2 million in the current period, attributable to the repayment of all amounts outstanding under the securitizations assumed in connection with the InSite Acquisition (the “InSite Debt”) and repayment of our 4.70% senior unsecured notes due 2022 (the “4.70% Notes”), as compared to a loss on retirement of long-term obligations of $71.8 million during the prior-year period attributable to the repayment of our 5.900% senior unsecured notes due 2021 (the “5.900% Notes”), our 3.300% senior unsecured notes due 2021 (the “3.300% Notes”) and our 3.450% senior unsecured notes due 2021 (the “3.450% Notes”).

Income Tax Provision[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As a REIT, we may deduct earnings distributed to stockholders against the income generated by our REIT operations. In addition, we are able to offset certain income by utilizing our NOLs, subject to specified limitations. Consequently, the effective tax rate on income from continuing operations for each of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 differs from the federal statutory rate.

The change in the income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to increases in reserves for uncertain tax positions and tax audit settlements, primarily in the United States and Mexico, in the current period.

Net Income / Adjusted EBITDA and Net Income / Nareit FFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders / Consolidated AFFO / AFFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1) Included in these amounts are impairment charges of $173.7 million and $222.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

(2) For the year ended December 31, 2020, relates to the payment of capitalized interest associated with the acquisition of MTN’s redeemable noncontrolling interests in each of our joint ventures in Ghana and Uganda (see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report). This long-term deferred interest payment was previously expensed but excluded from Consolidated AFFO.

(3) Includes (gains) losses on foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations of $(557.9) million and $216.4 million, respectively.

(4) Primarily includes acquisition-related costs and integration costs. 

(5) Includes adjustments for the impact on both Nareit FFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders as well as the other line items included in the calculation of Consolidated AFFO. 

Year Ended December 31, 2021 

The increase in net income was primarily due to (i) an increase in our operating profit and (ii) a decrease in other expenses, primarily due to foreign currency gains in the current period as compared to foreign currency losses in the prior-year period, partially offset by (a) an increase in depreciation, amortization and accretion expense, (b) an increase in other operating expense, primarily attributable to acquisition related costs associated with the Telxius Acquisition and the CoreSite Acquisition, and (c) an increase in the income tax provision. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2021 included a loss on retirement of long-term obligations of $38.2 million, attributable to the repayment of the InSite Debt and the 4.70% Notes, as compared to a loss on retirement of long-term obligations of $71.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, attributable to the repayment of the 5.900% Notes, the 3.300% Notes and the 3.450% Notes.

The increase in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily attributable to the increase in our gross margin and was partially offset by an increase in SG&A, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, of $31.2 million.

The increase in Consolidated AFFO and AFFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders was primarily attributable to the increase in our operating profit, excluding the impact of straight-line accounting, partially offset by increases in capital improvement and corporate capital expenditures, cash paid for taxes and cash paid for interest. The prior year period also included $63.3 million of previously deferred interest associated with a shareholder loan. The growth in AFFO attributable to American Tower Corporation common stockholders was also impacted by higher adjustments for unconsolidated affiliates and noncontrolling interests in Europe.

35

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

For a discussion of our 2020 Liquidity and Capital Resources, including a discussion of cash flows for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, refer to Part I, Item 7 of the 2020 Form 10-K.

Overview 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we increased our financial flexibility and our ability to grow our business while maintaining our long-term financial policies. Our significant 2021 financing transactions included:

•Entry into the 2021 EUR Delayed Draw Term Loans, the 2021 USD Delayed Draw Term Loans, the BofA Bridge Loan Commitment and the JPM Bridge Loan Commitment (each as defined below).

•Registered public offerings in an aggregate amount of $6.8 billion, including 3.0 billion EUR, of senior unsecured notes with maturities ranging from 2026 to 2051. 

•Registered public offering of 9,900,000 shares of our common stock for aggregate net proceeds of $2.4 billion. 

•Increase of our commitments under (i) our senior unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facility to $6.0 billion (as amended and restated as further described below, the “2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility”), (ii) our senior unsecured revolving credit facility to $4.0 billion (as amended and restated as further described below, the “2021 Credit Facility”) and (iii) our unsecured term loan to $1.0 billion (as amended and restated as further described below, the “2021 Term Loan”).

•Repayment of all amounts outstanding under our $750.0 million unsecured term loan due February 12, 2021 (the “2020 Term Loan”). 

•Repayment of all amounts outstanding under the InSite Debt.

•Repayment of all amounts outstanding under the 2021 EUR 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan (as defined below).

•Repayment of $500.0 million of indebtedness under the 2021 Term Loan.

•Redemption of the 4.70% Notes for an aggregate redemption price of approximately $715.1 million.

The following table summarizes our liquidity as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Subsequent to December 31, 2021, we made additional net borrowings of (i) $1.2 billion under the 2021 Credit Facility and (ii) $850.0 million under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility. The borrowings were used to repay existing indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. 

Summary cash flow information is set forth below for the years ended December 31, (in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We use our cash flows to fund our operations and investments in our business, including maintenance and improvements, communications site construction, managed network installations and acquisitions. Additionally, we use our cash flows to make distributions, including distributions of our REIT taxable income to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the Code. We may also repay or repurchase our existing indebtedness or equity from time to time. We typically fund our international expansion efforts primarily through a combination of cash on hand, intercompany debt and equity contributions. 

In February 2021, we entered into an agreement with Macquarie SBI Infrastructure Investments Pte Limited and SBI Macquarie Infrastructure Trust (together, “Macquarie”), our remaining minority holders in ATC TIPL, to redeem 100% of their combined holdings in ATC TIPL (see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report) at a price of INR 175 per share, subject to certain adjustments. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we redeemed 100% of Macquarie’s 

36

Table of Contents 

combined holdings in ATC TIPL, for total consideration of INR 12.9 billion (approximately $173.2 million at the date of redemption). As a result of the redemption, we now hold a 100% ownership interest in ATC TIPL.

In May 2021 and June 2021, in connection with the funding of the Telxius Acquisition, we entered into agreements for CDPQ and Allianz to acquire 30% and 18% noncontrolling interests, respectively, in ATC Europe. We completed the ATC Europe Transactions in September 2021 for total aggregate consideration of 2.6 billion EUR (approximately $3.1 billion at the date of closing). After the completion of the ATC Europe Transactions, we hold a 52% controlling ownership interest in ATC Europe.

As of December 31, 2021, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $43.5 billion, with a current portion of $4.6 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we generated sufficient cash flow from operations, together with borrowings under our credit facilities, the 2021 EUR Delayed Draw Term Loans and the 2021 USD Delayed Draw Term Loans, proceeds from our equity and debt issuances and cash on hand, to fund our acquisitions, capital expenditures and debt service obligations, as well as our required distributions. We believe the cash generated by operating activities during the year ending December 31, 2022, together with our borrowing capacity under our credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund our required distributions, capital expenditures, debt service obligations (interest and principal repayments) and signed acquisitions. 

As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $292.4 million was held by our joint ventures. While certain subsidiaries may pay us interest or principal on intercompany debt, it has not been our practice to repatriate earnings from our foreign subsidiaries primarily due to our ongoing expansion efforts and related capital needs. However, in the event that we do repatriate any funds, we may be required to accrue and pay certain taxes. 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2021, cash provided by operating activities increased $938.5 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The primary factors that impacted cash provided by operating activities as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, include:

•An increase in our segment operating profit of $851.9 million, partially offset by an increase in acquisition related costs, primarily associated with the Telxius Acquisition and the CoreSite Acquisition; 

•An increase in unearned revenue due to advance payments from a customer;

•An increase in non-cash operating activities, including an increase of approximately $143.6 million in straight-line revenue;

•An increase in cash required for working capital, primarily as a result of an increase in prepaid and other assets; 

•An increase of approximately $78.9 million in cash paid for taxes; and

•An increase of approximately $28.9 million in cash paid for interest.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Our significant investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2021 are highlighted below: 

•We spent approximately $19.3 billion for acquisitions, primarily related to the Telxius Acquisition and the CoreSite Acquisition, as well as asset acquisitions in the United States, Bangladesh, Chile, France, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru and Poland. 

•We spent $1.4 billion for capital expenditures, as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1)Includes the construction of 6,356 communications sites globally.

(2)Includes $35.2 million of perpetual land easement payments reported in Deferred financing costs and other financing activities in the cash flows from financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.

(3)Includes $5.4 million of finance lease payments included in Repayments of notes payable, credit facilities, term loans, senior notes, secured debt and finance leases in the cash flow from financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.

(4)Net of purchase credits of $9.5 million on certain assets, which are reported in operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. 

We plan to continue to allocate our available capital, after satisfying our distribution requirements, among investment alternatives that meet our return on investment criteria, while maintaining our commitment to our long-term financial policies. Accordingly, we expect to continue to deploy capital through our annual capital expenditure program, including land purchases 

37

Table of Contents 

and new site and data center facility construction, and through acquisitions. We also regularly review our site portfolios as to capital expenditures required to upgrade our towers to our structural standards or address capacity, structural or permitting issues. 

We expect that our 2022 total capital expenditures will be as follows (in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________ 

(1) Includes the construction of approximately 6,000 to 7,000 communications sites globally.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities 

Our significant financing activities were as follows (in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________ 

(1)As of December 31, 2020, the InSite Debt included $763.5 million aggregate principal amount and a fair value adjustment of $36.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we repaid all amounts outstanding under the InSite Debt. 

(2)For the year ended December 31, 2021, includes $3.1 billion of contributions received from CDPQ and Allianz in connection with the ATC Europe Transactions.

(3)For the year ended December 31, 2021, includes $214.9 million of cash consideration paid to PGGM in connection with the reorganization of our subsidiaries in Europe.

(4)Includes the redemptions of minority interests in ATC TIPL. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we also liquidated our interests in a company held in France for total consideration of 2.2 million EUR (approximately $2.5 million at the date of redemption). During the year ended December 31, 2020, we also completed the acquisition of MTN’s 49% redeemable noncontrolling interests in each of our joint ventures in Ghana and Uganda for total consideration of approximately $524.4 million, including an adjustment of $1.4 million.

38

Table of Contents 

Senior Notes

Repayments of Senior Notes

Repayment of 4.70% Senior Notes—On October 18, 2021, we redeemed all of the 4.70% Notes at a price equal to 101.7270% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding October 18, 2021, for an aggregate redemption price of approximately $715.1 million, including $3.0 million in accrued and unpaid interest. We recorded a loss on retirement of long-term obligations of approximately $12.4 million, which included prepayment consideration of $12.1 million and the associated unamortized discount and deferred financing costs. The redemption was funded with cash on hand. Upon completion of this redemption, none of the 4.70% Notes remained outstanding.

Repayment of 2.250% Senior Notes—On January 14, 2022, we repaid $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.250% senior unsecured notes due 2022 (the “2.250% Notes”) upon their maturity. The 2.250% Notes were repaid using borrowings under the 2021 Credit Facility. Upon completion of the repayment, none of the 2.250% Notes remained outstanding.

Offerings of Senior Notes

1.600% Senior Notes and 2.700% Senior Notes Offering—On March 29, 2021, we completed a registered public offering of $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.600% senior unsecured notes due 2026 (the “1.600% Notes”) and $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.700% senior unsecured notes due 2031 (the “2.700% Notes”). The net proceeds from this offering were approximately $1,386.3 million, after deducting commissions and estimated expenses. We used all of the net proceeds to repay existing indebtedness under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility.

0.450% Senior Notes, 0.875% Senior Notes and 1.250% Senior Notes Offering—On May 21, 2021, we completed a registered public offering of 750.0 million EUR ($913.7 million at the date of issuance) aggregate principal amount of 0.450% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the “0.450% Notes”), 750.0 million EUR ($913.7 million at the date of issuance) aggregate principal amount of 0.875% senior unsecured notes due 2029 (the “0.875% Notes”) and 500.0 million EUR ($609.1 million at the date of issuance) aggregate principal amount of 1.250% senior unsecured notes due 2033 (the “1.250% Notes”). The net proceeds from this offering were approximately 1,983.1 million EUR (approximately $2,415.8 million at the date of issuance), after deducting commissions and estimated expenses. We used all of the net proceeds to fund the Telxius Acquisition.

1.450% Senior Notes, 2.300% Senior Notes and 2.950% Senior Notes Offering—On September 27, 2021, we completed a registered public offering of $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 1.450% senior unsecured notes due 2026 (the “1.450% Notes”), $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.300% senior unsecured notes due 2031 (the “2.300% Notes”) and $500.0 million aggregate principal amount through a reopening of our 2.950% senior unsecured notes due 2051, originally issued on November 20, 2020 (the “2.950% Notes”). The net proceeds from this offering were approximately $1,765.1 million, after deducting commissions and estimated expenses. We used the net proceeds to repay existing indebtedness under the 2021 Term Loan and for general corporate purposes.

0.400% Senior Notes and 0.950% Senior Notes Offering—On October 5, 2021, we completed a registered public offering of 500.0 million EUR ($579.9 million at the date of issuance) aggregate principal amount of 0.400% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the “0.400% Notes”) and 500.0 million EUR ($579.9 million at the date of issuance) aggregate principal amount of 0.950% senior unsecured notes due 2030 (the “0.950% Notes” and, collectively with the 1.600% Notes, the 2.700% Notes, the 0.450% Notes, the 0.875% Notes, the 1.250% Notes, the 1.450% Notes, the 2.300% Notes, the 2.950% Notes and the 0.400% Notes, the “Notes”). The net proceeds from this offering were approximately 987.7 million EUR (approximately $1,145.6 million at the date of issuance), after deducting commissions and estimated expenses. We used the net proceeds to repay existing EUR denominated indebtedness under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 EUR 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan. 

39

Table of Contents 

The key terms of the Notes are as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________ 

(1)Accrued and unpaid interest on USD denominated notes is payable in USD semi-annually in arrears and will be computed from the issue date on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. Interest on EUR denominated notes is payable in EUR annually in arrears and will be computed on the basis of the actual number of days in the period for which interest is being calculated and the actual number of days from and including the last date on which interest was paid on the notes, beginning on the issue date.

(2)We may redeem the Notes at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus a make-whole premium, together with accrued interest to the redemption date. If we redeem the Notes on or after the par call date, we will not be required to pay a make-whole premium.

(3)The 0.450% Notes, the 0.875% Notes, the 1.250% Notes the 0.400% Notes and the 0.950% Notes are denominated in EUR. Represents the dollar equivalent of the aggregate principal amount as of the issue date. 

(4)The initial 2.950% Notes were issued on November 20, 2020. The reopened 2.950% Notes were issued on September 27, 2021.

If we undergo a change of control and corresponding ratings decline, each as defined in the applicable supplemental indenture for the Notes, we may be required to repurchase all of the Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any), up to but not including the repurchase date. The Notes rank equally with all of our other senior unsecured debt and are structurally subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and other obligations of our subsidiaries.

The supplemental indentures contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to merge, consolidate or sell assets and our (together with our subsidiaries’) ability to incur liens. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions, including that we and our subsidiaries may incur certain liens on assets, mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness if the aggregate amount of indebtedness secured by such liens does not exceed 3.5x Adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the applicable supplemental indenture.

Securitizations

Repayment of InSite Debt—The InSite Debt included securitizations entered into by certain InSite subsidiaries. The InSite Debt was recorded at fair value upon acquisition. On January 15, 2021, we repaid the entire amount outstanding under the InSite Debt, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, January 15, 2021, for an aggregate redemption price of $826.4 million, including $2.3 million in accrued and unpaid interest. We recorded a loss on retirement of long-term obligations of approximately $25.7 million, which includes prepayment consideration partially offset by the unamortized fair value adjustment recorded upon acquisition. The repayment of the InSite Debt was funded with borrowings under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility, and cash on hand.

Bank Facilities

40

Table of Contents 

Amendments to Bank Facilities—On February 10, 2021, we amended and restated the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility and amended the 2021 Term Loan. 

These amendments, among other things, 

i.extended the maturity dates by one year to June 28, 2024 and January 31, 2026 for the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility, respectively;

ii.increased the commitments under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility to $4.1 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively;

iii.increased the maximum Revolving Loan Commitments, after giving effect to any Incremental Commitments (each as defined in the loan agreements for each of the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility) to $6.1 billion and $4.4 billion under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility, respectively; 

iv.expanded the sublimit for multicurrency borrowings under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility from $1.0 billion to $3.0 billion and add a EUR borrowing option for the 2021 Credit Facility with a $1.5 billion sublimit;

v.amended the limitation of our permitted ratio of Total Debt to Adjusted EBITDA (each as defined in each of the loan agreements for each of the facilities) to be no greater than 7.50 to 1.00 for the four fiscal quarters following the consummation of the Telxius Acquisition, which began with the quarter ended June 30, 2021, stepping down to 6.00 to 1.00 thereafter (with a further step up to 7.00 to 1.00 if we consummate a Qualified Acquisition (as defined in each of the loan agreements for the facilities));

vi.amended the limitation on indebtedness of, and guaranteed by, our subsidiaries to the greater of (a) $3.0 billion and (b) 50% of Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in each of the loan agreements for the facilities) of us and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; and

vii.increased the threshold for certain defaults with respect to judgments, attachments or acceleration of indebtedness from $400.0 million to $500.0 million.

On December 8, 2021, we amended and restated the agreements for the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility and the 2021 Term Loan, and amended the 2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan (as defined below).

These amendments, among other things,

i.extended the maturity dates to June 30, 2025, January 31, 2027 and January 31, 2027 for the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility and the 2021 Term Loan, respectively;

ii.increased the commitments under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility and the 2021 Term Loan to $6.0 billion, $4.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, of which an aggregate of approximately $5.1 billion under these facilities was used to finance the CoreSite Acquisition;

iii.increased the maximum Revolving Loan Commitments, after giving effect to any Incremental Commitments (each as defined in the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility) to $8.0 billion and $5.5 billion under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility, respectively;

iv.amended the limitation of our permitted ratio of Total Debt to Adjusted EBITDA (each as defined in each of the loans) to be no greater than 7.50 to 1.00 for the four fiscal quarters following the consummation of the CoreSite Acquisition, which began with the quarter ended December 31, 2021, stepping down to 6.00 to 1.00 (with a further step up to 7.50 to 1.00 if we consummate a Qualified Acquisition (as defined in each of the agreements));

v.expanded the sublimit for multicurrency borrowings under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility from $3.0 billion and $1.5 billion to $3.5 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively; and

vi.increased the threshold for certain defaults with respect to judgments, attachments or acceleration of indebtedness from $500.0 million to $600.0 million.

2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility—As of December 31, 2021, we had the ability to borrow up to $6.0 billion under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, which includes a $3.5 billion sublimit for multicurrency borrowings, a $200.0 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $50.0 million sublimit for swingline loans. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we borrowed an aggregate of $7.8 billion, including an aggregate of 2.4 billion EUR ($2.9 billion as of the borrowing dates), and repaid an aggregate of $3.4 billion of revolving indebtedness, including an aggregate of 1.3 billion EUR ($1.5 billion as of the repayment date) primarily using proceeds from the ATC Europe Transactions, under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility. We used the 

41

Table of Contents 

borrowings to fund the Telxius Acquisition and the CoreSite Acquisition, to repay existing indebtedness, including the InSite Debt and the 2020 Term Loan, and for general corporate purposes.

2021 Credit Facility—As of December 31, 2021, we had the ability to borrow up to $4.0 billion under the 2021 Credit Facility, which includes a $2.5 billion sublimit for multicurrency borrowings, $200.0 million sublimit for letters of credit and a $50.0 million sublimit for swingline loans. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we borrowed an aggregate of $4.9 billion, including an aggregate of 1.2 billion EUR ($1.5 billion as of the borrowing dates), and repaid an aggregate of $5.8 billion of revolving indebtedness, including an aggregate of 1.2 billion EUR ($1.4 billion as of the repayment date) primarily using proceeds from the ATC Europe Transactions, under the 2021 Credit Facility. We used the borrowings to fund the Telxius Acquisition and the CoreSite Acquisition and for general corporate purposes.

Repayment of the 2020 Term Loan—On February 5, 2021, we repaid all amounts outstanding under the 2020 Term Loan using borrowings under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and cash on hand.

2021 Term Loan—On September 27, 2021, we repaid $500.0 million of indebtedness under the 2021 Term Loan using proceeds from the issuance of the 1.450% Notes, the 2.300% Notes and the 2.950% Notes. On December 28, 2021, we borrowed $500.0 million under the 2021 Term Loan, which was used to fund the CoreSite Acquisition. As of December 31, 2021, $1.0 billion is outstanding under the 2021 Term Loan.

2021 EUR Delayed Draw Term Loans—On February 10, 2021, we entered into (i) a 1.1 billion EUR (approximately $1.3 billion at the date of signing) unsecured term loan, the proceeds of which were used to fund the Telxius Acquisition (the “2021 EUR 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan”), and which was subsequently repaid in full as described below, and (ii) an 825.0 million EUR (approximately $1.0 billion at the date of signing) unsecured term loan, the proceeds of which were used to fund the Telxius Acquisition, with a maturity date that is three years from the date of the first draw thereunder (the “2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan,” and, together with the 2021 EUR 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan, the “2021 EUR Delayed Draw Term Loans”). The 2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan bears interest at either (i) a base rate plus and applicable margin or (ii) a Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin, in each case, subject to adjustments based on our senior unsecured debt rating, which, based on our current debt ratings, is 1.125% above the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (“EURIBOR”).

On May 28, 2021, we borrowed 1.1 billion EUR ($1.3 billion as of the borrowing date) under the 2021 EUR 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan and 825.0 million EUR ($1.0 billion as of the borrowing date) under the 2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan. We used the borrowings to fund the Telxius Acquisition.

On September 16, 2021, we repaid 420.0 million EUR ($494.2 million as of the repayment date) under the 2021 EUR 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan using proceeds from the ATC Europe Transactions. On October 7, 2021, we repaid all remaining amounts outstanding under the 2021 EUR 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan using proceeds from the issuance of the 0.400% Notes and the 0.950% Notes.

2021 USD Delayed Draw Term Loans—On December 8, 2021, we entered into (i) a $3.0 billion unsecured term loan, the proceeds of which were used to fund the CoreSite Acquisition, with a maturity date that is 364 days from the date of the first draw thereunder (the “2021 USD 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan”) and (ii) a $1.5 billion unsecured term loan, the proceeds of which were used to fund the CoreSite Acquisition, with a maturity date that is two years from the date of the first draw thereunder (the “2021 USD Two Year Delayed Draw Term Loan” and, together with the 2021 USD 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan, the “2021 USD Delayed Draw Term Loans”). The 2021 USD Delayed Draw Term Loans bear interest at either (i) a base rate plus an applicable margin or (ii) a Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin, in each case, subject to adjustments based on our senior unsecured debt rating, which, based on our current debt ratings, is 1.125% above LIBOR.

On December 28, 2021, we borrowed $3.0 billion under the 2021 USD 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan and $1.5 billion under the 2021 USD Two Year Delayed Draw Term Loan. We used the borrowings to fund the CoreSite Acquisition.

Bridge Facilities—In connection with entering into the Telxius Acquisition, we entered into a commitment letter (the “BofA Commitment Letter”), dated January 13, 2021, with Bank of America, N.A. and BofA Securities, Inc. (together, “BofA”) pursuant to which BofA had, with respect to bridge financing, committed to provide up to 7.5 billion EUR (approximately $9.1 billion at the date of signing) in bridge loans (the “BofA Bridge Loan Commitment”) to ensure financing for the Telxius Acquisition. Effective February 10, 2021, the BofA Bridge Loan Commitment was reduced to 4.275 billion EUR (approximately $5.2 billion at the date of signing) as a result of an aggregate of 3.225 billion EUR (approximately $3.9 billion at the date of signing) of additional committed amounts under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility and the 2021 EUR Delayed Draw Term Loans, as described above. The BofA Bridge Loan Commitment was further reduced as a result of the May 2021 common stock offering, as further described below. Effective May 24, 2021, upon receipt of the proceeds from the issuance of the 0.450% Notes, the 0.875% Notes and the 1.250% Notes, we determined that we had adequate cash resources and undrawn availability under our revolving credit facilities and the 2021 EUR Delayed Draw Term Loans to 

42

Table of Contents 

fund the cash consideration payable in connection with the Telxius Acquisition and terminated the BofA Commitment Letter. We did not make any borrowings under the BofA Bridge Loan Commitment.

In connection with entering into the CoreSite Acquisition, we entered into a commitment letter, dated November 14, 2021, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“JPM”) pursuant to which JPM had, with respect to bridge financing, committed to provide up to $10.5 billion in bridge loans (the “JPM Bridge Loan Commitment”) to ensure financing for the CoreSite Acquisition. Effective December 8, 2021, the JPM Bridge Loan Commitment was fully terminated as a result of the $10.5 billion in committed amounts available under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility, the 2021 Term Loan and the 2021 USD Delayed Draw Term Loans, as described above. We did not make any borrowings under the JPM Bridge Loan Commitment.

As of December 31, 2021, the key terms under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility, the 2021 Term Loan, the 2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, the 2021 USD 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan and the 2021 USD Two Year Delayed Draw Term Loan were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1)Represents interest rate above LIBOR for LIBOR based borrowings, interest rate above EURIBOR for EURIBOR based borrowings and interest rate above the defined base rate for base rate borrowings, in each case based on our debt ratings. 

(2)Currently borrowed at LIBOR for USD denominated borrowings and at EURIBOR for EUR denominated borrowings.

(3)Subject to two optional renewal periods.

(4)Currently borrowed at LIBOR.

(5)Currently borrowed at EURIBOR.

We must pay a quarterly commitment fee on the undrawn portion of each of the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility. The commitment fee for the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and the 2021 Credit Facility ranges from 0.080% to 0.300% per annum, based upon our debt ratings, and is currently 0.110%. 

The 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility, the 2021 Term Loan, the 2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, the 2021 USD 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan and the 2021 USD Two Year Delayed Draw Term Loan do not require amortization of principal and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at our option without penalty or premium. We have the option of choosing either a defined base rate, LIBOR or EURIBOR as the applicable base rate for borrowings under these bank facilities.

The loan agreements for each of the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility, the 2021 Term Loan, the 2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, the 2021 USD 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan and the 2021 USD Two Year Delayed Draw Term Loan contain certain reporting, information, financial and operating covenants and other restrictions (including limitations on additional debt, guaranties, sales of assets and liens) with which we must comply. Failure to comply with the financial and operating covenants of the loan agreements could not only prevent us from being able to borrow additional funds under the revolving credit facilities, but may constitute a default, which could result in, among other things, the amounts outstanding under the applicable agreement, including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. 

India Indebtedness—The India indebtedness includes several working capital facilities, most of which are subject to annual renewal, and an overdraft facility. The working capital facilities bear interest at rates that consist of the applicable bank’s Marginal Cost of Funds based Lending Rate (as defined in the applicable agreement), plus a spread. Generally, the working capital facilities are payable on demand prior to maturity. The overdraft facility bears interest at the Overnight Mumbai Inter-Bank Offer Rate at the time of borrowing plus a spread. As of December 31, 2021, we have not borrowed under these facilities. 

43

Table of Contents 

Amounts outstanding and key terms of the India indebtedness consisted of the following as of December 31, 2021 (in millions, except percentages):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1) 7.70 billion INR ($103.5 million) of borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2021.

(2) 380.0 million INR ($5.1 million) of borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2021.

Repayment of CoreSite Debt—Debt assumed in connection with the CoreSite Acquisition included senior unsecured notes previously entered into by CoreSite (the “CoreSite Debt”). The CoreSite Debt was recorded at fair value upon the closing of the CoreSite Acquisition. On January 7, 2022, we repaid the entire amount outstanding under the CoreSite Debt, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, January 7, 2022, for an aggregate redemption price of $962.9 million, including $80.1 million of prepayment consideration and $7.8 million in accrued and unpaid interest. The repayment of the CoreSite Debt was funded with borrowings under the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility and cash on hand. 

Stock Repurchase Programs—In March 2011, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of our common stock (the “2011 Buyback”). In December 2017, our Board of Directors approved an additional stock repurchase program, pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock (the “2017 Buyback,” and, together with the 2011 Buyback, the “Buyback Programs”).

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we made no repurchases under either of the Buyback Programs.

Under each program, we are authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases or in privately negotiated transactions not to exceed market prices and subject to market conditions and other factors. With respect to open market purchases, we may use plans adopted in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act in accordance with securities laws and other legal requirements, which allows us to repurchase shares during periods when we may otherwise be prevented from doing so under insider trading laws or because of self-imposed trading blackout periods. These programs may be discontinued at any time.

We have repurchased a total of 14.4 million shares of our common stock under the 2011 Buyback for an aggregate of $1.5 billion, including commissions and fees. We expect to continue managing the pacing of the remaining approximately $2.0 billion under the Buyback Programs in response to general market conditions and other relevant factors. We expect to fund any further repurchases of our common stock through a combination of cash on hand, cash generated by operations and borrowings under our credit facilities. Repurchases under the Buyback Programs are subject to, among other things, us having available cash to fund the repurchases. 

Sales of Equity Securities—We receive proceeds from sales of our equity securities pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan (the “ESPP”) and upon exercise of stock options granted under our equity incentive plan, as amended (the “2007 Plan”). During the year ended December 31, 2021, we received an aggregate of $96.8 million in proceeds upon exercises of stock options and sales pursuant to the ESPP. 

2020 “At the Market” Stock Offering Program—In August 2020, we established an “at the market” stock offering program through which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $1.0 billion (the “2020 ATM Program”). Sales under the 2020 ATM Program may be made by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions on the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise at market prices prevailing at the time of sale, at prices related to prevailing market prices or, subject to our specific instructions, at negotiated prices. We intend to use the net proceeds from any issuances under the 2020 ATM Program for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, the funding of acquisitions, additions to working capital and repayment or refinancing of existing indebtedness. As of December 31, 2021, we have not sold any shares of common stock under the 2020 ATM Program.

Common Stock Offering—On May 10, 2021, we completed a registered public offering of 9,000,000 shares of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at $244.75 per share. On May 10, 2021, we issued an additional 900,000 shares of our common stock in connection with the underwriters’ exercise in full of their over-allotment option. Aggregate net proceeds from this offering were approximately $2.4 billion after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses. We used the net proceeds to finance the Telxius Acquisition. 

Distributions—As a REIT, we must annually distribute to our stockholders an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for distributed earnings and excluding any net capital gain). Generally, we have distributed, and expect to continue to distribute, all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income after taking into 

44

Table of Contents 

consideration our utilization of NOLs. We have distributed an aggregate of approximately $11.8 billion to our common stockholders, including the dividend paid in January 2022, primarily classified as ordinary income that may be treated as qualified REIT dividends under Section 199A of the Code for taxable years ending before 2026. 

The amount, timing and frequency of future distributions will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors, a number of which may be beyond our control, including our financial condition and operating cash flows, the amount required to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT and reduce any income and excise taxes that we otherwise would be required to pay, limitations on distributions in our existing and future debt and preferred equity instruments, our ability to utilize NOLs to offset our distribution requirements, limitations on our ability to fund distributions using cash generated through our TRSs and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant.

During the year ended December 31, 2021, we paid $5.03 per share, or $2.3 billion, to common stockholders of record. In addition, we declared a distribution of $1.39 per share, or $633.5 million, paid on January 14, 2022 to our common stockholders of record at the close of business on December 27, 2021.

We accrue distributions on unvested restricted stock units, which are payable upon vesting. The amount accrued for distributions payable related to unvested restricted stock units was $12.8 million and $12.6 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we paid $7.5 million of distributions upon the vesting of restricted stock units. 

For more details on the cash distributions paid to our common stockholders during the year ended December 31, 2021, see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Material Cash Requirements—The following table summarizes material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations as of December 31, 2021 (in millions):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________

(1) Includes aggregate principal maturities of long-term debt, including finance lease obligations (see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report).

(2) Includes payments under non-cancellable initial terms, as well as payments for certain renewal periods at our option, which we expect to renew because failure to do so could result in a loss of the applicable communications sites and related revenues from tenant leases (see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report).

Distributions—We expect that our 2022 total distributions declared to our common stockholders will be $2.8 billion. The amount, timing and frequency of future distributions will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. 

Signed Acquisitions—On November 28, 2019, we entered into definitive agreements with Orange for the acquisition of up to approximately 2,000 communications sites in France over a period of up to five years for total consideration in the range of approximately 500.0 million EUR to 600.0 million EUR (approximately $550.5 million to $660.5 million at the date of signing) to be paid over the five-year term. As of December 31, 2021, we have completed the acquisition of nearly 1,200 communications sites. The remaining communications sites are expected to close in tranches, subject to customary closing conditions.

Asset Retirement Obligations—We are required to remove our assets and remediate the leased sites upon which certain of our assets are located. As of December 31, 2021, the estimated undiscounted future cash outlay for asset retirement obligations was $4.2 billion. 

Factors Affecting Sources of Liquidity

Our liquidity depends on our ability to generate cash flow from operating activities, borrow funds under our credit facilities and maintain compliance with the contractual agreements governing our indebtedness. We believe that the debt agreements discussed below represent our material debt agreements that contain covenants, our compliance with which would be material to an investor’s understanding of our financial results and the impact of those results on our liquidity.

Internally Generated Funds—Because the majority of our customer leases are multiyear contracts, a significant majority of the revenues generated by our property operations as of the end of 2021 is recurring revenue that we should continue to receive in future periods. Accordingly, a key factor affecting our ability to generate cash flow from operating activities is to maintain this recurring revenue and to convert it into operating profit by minimizing operating costs and fully achieving our operating efficiencies. In addition, our ability to increase cash flow from operating activities depends upon the demand for our 

45

Table of Contents 

communications infrastructure and our related services and our ability to increase the utilization of our existing communications infrastructure.

Restrictions Under Loan Agreements Relating to Our Credit Facilities—The loan agreements for the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility, the 2021 Term Loan, the 2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, the 2021 USD 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan and the 2021 USD Two Year Delayed Draw Term Loan contain certain financial and operating covenants and other restrictions applicable to us and our subsidiaries that are not designated as unrestricted subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. These restrictions include limitations on additional debt, distributions and dividends, guaranties, sales of assets and liens. The loan agreements also contain covenants that establish financial tests with which we and our restricted subsidiaries must comply related to total leverage and senior secured leverage, as set forth in the table below. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with each of these covenants. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1) Each component of the ratio as defined in the applicable loan agreement.

(2) Assumes no change to Adjusted EBITDA.

(3) Assumes no change to our debt levels. 

(4) Effectively, however, additional Senior Secured Debt under this ratio would be limited to the capacity under the Consolidated Total Leverage Ratio.

Under the terms of the agreements for the 2021 Multicurrency Credit Facility, the 2021 Credit Facility, the 2021 Term Loan, the 2021 EUR Three Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, the 2021 USD 364-Day Delayed Draw Term Loan and the 2021 USD Two Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, the Telxius Acquisition and the CoreSite Acquisition are designated as a Qualified Acquisitions, whereby our Total Debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio is adjusted to not exceed 7:50 to 1:00 for four fiscal quarters following consummation of the Telxius Acquisition, which began with the quarter ended June 30, 2021 and for four fiscal quarters following consummation of the CoreSite Acquisition, which began with the quarter ended December 31, 2021. The loan agreements for our credit facilities also contain reporting and information covenants that require us to provide financial and operating information to the lenders within certain time periods. If we are unable to provide the required information on a timely basis, we would be in breach of these covenants.

Failure to comply with the financial maintenance tests and certain other covenants of the loan agreements for our credit facilities could not only prevent us from being able to borrow additional funds under these credit facilities, but may also constitute a default under these credit facilities, which could result in, among other things, the amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repay such indebtedness. The key factors affecting our ability to comply with the debt covenants described above are our financial performance relative to the financial maintenance tests defined in the loan agreements for these credit facilities and our ability to fund our debt service obligations. Based upon our current expectations, we believe our operating results during the next 12 months will be sufficient to comply with these covenants.

Restrictions Under Agreements Relating to the 2015 Securitization and the Trust Securitizations—The indenture and related supplemental indenture governing the American Tower Secured Revenue Notes, Series 2015-2, Class A (the “Series 2015-2 Notes”) issued by GTP Acquisition Partners I, LLC (“GTP Acquisition Partners”) in the 2015 Securitization and the loan agreement related to the Trust Securitizations include certain financial ratios and operating covenants and other restrictions customary for transactions subject to rated securitizations. Among other things, GTP Acquisition Partners and American Tower Asset Sub, LLC and American Tower Asset Sub II, LLC (together, the “AMT Asset Subs”) are prohibited from incurring other indebtedness for borrowed money or further encumbering their assets, subject to customary carve-outs for ordinary course trade payables and permitted encumbrances (as defined in the applicable agreements).

Under the agreements, amounts due will be paid from the cash flows generated by the assets securing the Series 2015-2 Notes or the assets securing the nonrecourse loan that secures the Secured Tower Revenue Securities, Series 2013-2A (the “Series 2013-2A Securities”), Secured Tower Revenue Securities, Series 2018-1, Subclass A (the “Series 2018-1A Securities”), and the Secured Tower Revenue Securities, Series 2018-1, Subclass R (the “Series 2018-1R Securities” and, together with the Series 2018-1A Securities, the “2018 Securities”) issued in the Trust Securitizations (the “Loan”), as applicable, which must be deposited into certain reserve accounts, and thereafter distributed, solely pursuant to the terms of the applicable agreement. On a monthly basis, after payment of all required amounts under the applicable agreement, subject to the conditions described in the 

46

Table of Contents 

table below, the excess cash flows generated from the operation of such assets are released to GTP Acquisition Partners or the AMT Asset Subs, as applicable, which can then be distributed to, and used by, us. As of December 31, 2021, $358.8 million held in such reserve accounts was classified as restricted cash. 

Certain information with respect to the 2015 Securitization and the Trust Securitizations is set forth below. The debt service coverage ratio (“DSCR”) is generally calculated as the ratio of the net cash flow (as defined in the applicable agreement) to the amount of interest, servicing fees and trustee fees required to be paid over the succeeding 12 months on the principal amount of the Series 2015-2 Notes or the Loan, as applicable, that will be outstanding on the payment date following such date of determination. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________

(1) Based on the net cash flow of the applicable issuer or borrower as of December 31, 2021 and the expenses payable over the next 12 months on the Series 2015-2 Notes or the Loan, as applicable. 

(2) Once triggered, a Cash Trap DSCR condition continues to exist until the DSCR exceeds the Cash Trap DSCR for two consecutive calendar quarters. During a Cash Trap DSCR condition, all cash flow in excess of amounts required to make debt service payments, fund required reserves, pay management fees and budgeted operating expenses and make other payments required under the applicable transaction documents, referred to as excess cash flow, will be deposited into a reserve account (the “Cash Trap Reserve Account”) instead of being released to the applicable issuer or borrower. 

(3) An amortization period commences if the DSCR is equal to or below 1.15x (the “Minimum DSCR”) at the end of any calendar quarter and continues to exist until the DSCR exceeds the Minimum DSCR for two consecutive calendar quarters.

(4) No amortization period is triggered if the outstanding principal amount of a series has not been repaid in full on the applicable anticipated repayment date. However, in such event, additional interest will accrue on the unpaid principal balance of the applicable series, and such series will begin to amortize on a monthly basis from excess cash flow.

(5) An amortization period exists if the outstanding principal amount has not been paid in full on the applicable anticipated repayment date and continues to exist until such principal has been repaid in full. 

A failure to meet the noted DSCR tests could prevent GTP Acquisition Partners or the AMT Asset Subs from distributing excess cash flow to us, which could affect our ability to fund our capital expenditures, including tower construction and acquisitions and to meet REIT distribution requirements. During an “amortization period,” all excess cash flow and any amounts then in the applicable Cash Trap Reserve Account would be applied to pay the principal of the Series 2015-2 Notes or the Loan, as applicable, on each monthly payment date, and so would not be available for distribution to us. Further, additional interest will begin to accrue with respect to the Series 2015-2 Notes or subclass of the Loan from and after the anticipated repayment date at a per annum rate determined in accordance with the applicable agreement. With respect to the Series 2015-2 Notes, upon the occurrence of, and during, an event of default, the applicable trustee may, in its discretion or at the direction of holders of more than 50% of the aggregate outstanding principal of the Series 2015-2 Notes, declare the Series 2015-2 Notes immediately due and payable, in which case any excess cash flow would need to be used to pay holders of such notes. Furthermore, if GTP Acquisition Partners or the AMT Asset Subs were to default on the Series 2015-2 Notes or the Loan, the applicable trustee may seek to foreclose upon or otherwise convert the ownership of all or any portion of the 3,531 communications sites that secure the Series 2015-2 Notes or the 5,113 broadcast and wireless communications towers and 

47

Table of Contents 

related assets that secure the Loan, respectively, in which case we could lose such sites and the revenue associated with those assets.

As discussed above, we use our available liquidity and seek new sources of liquidity to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives, satisfy our distribution requirements and repay or repurchase our debt. If we determine that it is desirable or necessary to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so, or such additional financing may be prohibitively expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. Further, as further discussed under Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors,” extreme market volatility and disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic may impact our ability to raise additional capital through debt financing activities or our ability to repay or refinance maturing liabilities, or impact the terms of any new obligations. If we are unable to raise capital when our needs arise, we may not be able to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives, satisfy our REIT distribution requirements and debt service obligations or refinance our existing indebtedness. 

In addition, our liquidity depends on our ability to generate cash flow from operating activities. As set forth under Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors,” we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and, consequently, a failure by a significant customer to perform its contractual obligations to us could adversely affect our cash flow and liquidity.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our policies and estimates on an ongoing basis. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

We have reviewed our policies and estimates to determine our critical accounting policies for the year ended December 31, 2021. We have identified the following policies as critical to an understanding of our results of operations and financial condition. This is not a comprehensive list of our accounting policies. See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with no need for management’s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result.

•Impairment of Assets—Assets Subject to Depreciation and Amortization: We review long-lived assets for impairment at least annually or whenever events, changes in circumstances or other indicators or evidence indicate that the carrying amount of our assets may not be recoverable. 

We review our tower portfolio, network location intangible and right-of-use assets for indicators of impairment at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, typically at an individual tower basis. Possible indicators include a tower not having current tenant leases or having expenses in excess of revenues. A cash flow modeling approach is utilized to assess recoverability and incorporates, among other items, the tower location, the tower location demographics, the timing of additions of new tenants, lease rates and estimated length of tenancy and ongoing cash requirements.

We review our tenant-related intangible assets on a tenant by tenant basis for indicators of impairment, such as high levels of turnover or attrition, non-renewal of a significant number of contracts or the cancellation or termination of a relationship. We assess recoverability by determining whether the carrying amount of the tenant-related intangible assets will be recovered primarily through projected undiscounted future cash flows. 

If the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of our long-lived assets is less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss may be recognized. Key assumptions included in the undiscounted cash flows are future revenue projections, estimates of ongoing tenancies and operating margins. An impairment loss would be based on the fair value of the asset, which is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows to be provided from the asset. We record any related impairment charge in the period in which we identify such impairment.

In October 2019, the Supreme Court of India issued a ruling regarding the definition of AGR and associated fees and charges, which was reaffirmed in March 2020, that may have a material financial impact on certain of our tenants which could affect their ability to perform their obligations under agreements with us. In September 2020, the Supreme Court of India defined the expected timeline of ten years for payments owed under the ruling. In September 2021, the government in India approved a relief package, that, among other things, included (i) a four year moratorium on the payment of AGR fees owed and (ii) a change in the definition of AGR on a prospective basis. We will continue to 

48

Table of Contents 

monitor the status of these developments, as it is possible that the estimated future cash flows may differ from current estimates and changes in estimated cash flows from tenants in India could have an impact on previously recorded tangible and intangible assets, including amounts originally recorded as tenant-related intangibles. The carrying value of tenant-related intangibles in India was $0.9 billion as of December 31, 2021, which represents 6% of our consolidated balance of $15.0 billion. Additionally, a significant reduction in tenant related cash flows in India could also impact our tower portfolio and network location intangibles. The carrying values of our tower portfolio and network location intangibles in India were $1.0 billion and $367.4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2021, which represent 12% and 9% of our consolidated balances of $9.0 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. 

•Impairment of Assets—Goodwill: We review goodwill for impairment at least annually (as of December 31) or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill is recorded in the applicable segment and assessed for impairment at the reporting unit level. We employ a discounted cash flow analysis when testing goodwill. The key assumptions utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis include current operating performance, terminal sales growth rate, management’s expectations of future operating results and cash requirements, the current weighted average cost of capital and an expected tax rate. We compare the fair value of the reporting unit, as calculated under an income approach using future discounted cash flows, to the carrying amount of the applicable reporting unit. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount of the excess. The loss recognized is limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, no potential goodwill impairment was identified as the fair value of each of our reporting units was in excess of its carrying amount.

•Acquisitions: We evaluate each of our acquisitions under the accounting guidance framework to determine whether to treat an acquisition as an asset acquisition or a business combination. For those transactions treated as asset acquisitions, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired, with no recognition of goodwill. For those acquisitions that meet the definition of a business combination, we apply the acquisition method of accounting where assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at fair value at the date of each acquisition, and the results of operations are included with our results from the dates of the respective acquisitions. Any excess of the purchase price paid over the amounts recognized for assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. We continue to evaluate acquisitions accounted for as business combinations for a period not to exceed one year after the applicable acquisition date of each transaction to determine whether any additional adjustments are needed to the allocation of the purchase price paid for the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is typically determined by using either estimates of replacement costs or discounted cash flow valuation methods. When determining the fair value of tangible assets acquired, we must estimate the cost to replace the asset with a new asset taking into consideration such factors as age, condition and the economic useful life of the asset. When determining the fair value of intangible assets acquired, we must estimate the applicable discount rate and the timing and amount of future tenant cash flows, including rate and terms of renewal and attrition. 

•Revenue Recognition: Our revenue is derived from leasing the right to use our communications sites, the land on which the sites are located and our data center facilities (the “lease component”) and from the reimbursement of costs incurred in operating the communications sites and supporting the tenants’ equipment as well as other services and contractual rights (the “non-lease component”). Most of our revenue is derived from leasing arrangements and is accounted for as lease revenue unless the timing and pattern of revenue recognition of the non-lease component differs from the lease component. If the timing and pattern of the non-lease component revenue recognition differs from that of the lease component, we separately determine the stand-alone selling prices and pattern of revenue recognition for each performance obligation.

Our revenue from leasing arrangements, including fixed escalation clauses present in non-cancellable lease arrangements, is reported on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases when collectibility is probable. Escalation clauses tied to a consumer price index or other inflation-based indices, and other incentives present in lease agreements with our tenants, are excluded from the straight-line calculation. Total property straight-line revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 were $465.6 million, $322.0 million and $183.5 million, respectively. Amounts billed upfront in connection with the execution of lease agreements are initially deferred and reflected in Unearned revenue in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and recognized as revenue over the terms of the applicable lease arrangements. Amounts billed or received for services prior to being earned are deferred and reflected in Unearned revenue in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets until the criteria for recognition have been met.

49

Table of Contents 

We derive the largest portion of our revenues, corresponding trade receivables and the related deferred rent asset from a small number of tenants in the telecommunications industry, with 52% of our revenues derived from three tenants. In addition, we have concentrations of credit risk in certain geographic areas. We mitigate the concentrations of credit risk with respect to notes and trade receivables by actively monitoring the creditworthiness of our borrowers and tenants. In recognizing tenant revenue we assess the collectibility of both the amounts billed and the portion recognized on a straight-line basis. This assessment takes tenant credit risk and business and industry conditions into consideration to ultimately determine the collectibility of the amounts billed. To the extent the amounts, based on management’s estimates, may not be collectible, recognition is deferred until such point as the uncertainty is resolved. Any amounts that were previously recognized as revenue and are subsequently determined to present a risk of collection are reserved as bad debt expense. Accounts receivable are reported net of allowances for doubtful accounts related to estimated losses resulting from a tenant’s inability to make required payments and allowances for amounts invoiced whose collectibility is not reasonably assured.

•Rent Expense and Lease Accounting: Many of the leases underlying our tower sites and data centers have fixed rent escalations, which provide for periodic increases in the amount of ground rent payable over time. In addition, certain of our tenant leases require us to exercise available renewal options pursuant to the underlying ground lease if the tenant exercises its renewal option. Our calculation of the lease liability includes the term of the underlying ground lease plus all periods, if any, for which failure to renew the lease imposes an economic penalty to us such that renewal appears to be reasonably assured. 

We recognize a right-of-use lease asset and lease liability for operating and finance leases. The right-of-use asset is measured as the sum of the lease liability, prepaid or accrued lease payments, any initial direct costs incurred and any other applicable amounts.

The calculation of the lease liability requires us to make certain assumptions for each lease, including lease term and discount rate implicit in each lease, which could significantly impact the gross lease obligation, the duration and the present value of the lease liability. When calculating the lease term, we consider the renewal, cancellation and termination rights available to us and the lessor. We determine the discount rate by calculating the incremental borrowing rate on a collateralized basis at the commencement of a lease or upon a change in the lease term.

•Income Taxes: Accounting for income taxes requires us to estimate the timing and impact of amounts recorded in our financial statements that may be recognized differently for tax purposes. To the extent that the timing of amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes differs from the timing of recognition for tax reporting purposes, deferred tax assets or liabilities are required to be recorded. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. We do not expect to pay federal income taxes on our REIT taxable income.

We periodically review our deferred tax assets, and we record a valuation allowance if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management assesses the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to use the existing deferred tax assets. Valuation allowances would be reversed as a reduction to the provision for income taxes, if related deferred tax assets are deemed realizable based on changes in facts and circumstances relevant to the assets’ recoverability.

We recognize the benefit of uncertain tax positions when, in management’s judgment, it is more likely than not that positions we have taken in our tax returns will be sustained upon examination, which are measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. We adjust our tax liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information or information not previously available. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which additional information is available or the position is ultimately settled under audit.

Accounting Standards Update

For a discussion of recent accounting standards updates, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

50

Table of Contents 

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK