PART I

ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are one of the largest global real estate investment trusts and a leading independent owner, operator and developer of multitenant communications real estate. Our primary business is the leasing of space on communications sites to wireless service providers, radio and television broadcast companies, wireless data providers, government agencies and municipalities and tenants in a number of other industries. We refer to this business as our property operations, which accounted for 97% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. We also offer tower-related services in the United States, which we refer to as our services operations. These services include site application, zoning and permitting and structural analysis, which primarily support our site leasing business, including the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. Our customers include our tenants, licensees and other payers.

Since inception, we have grown our communications real estate portfolio through acquisitions, long-term lease arrangements and site development. Our portfolio primarily consists of towers that we own and towers that we operate pursuant to long-term lease arrangements, as well as distributed antenna system (“DAS”) networks, which provide seamless coverage solutions in certain in-building and outdoor wireless environments. In addition to the communications sites in our portfolio, we manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners under various contractual arrangements. We also hold other telecommunications infrastructure, fiber and property interests that we lease primarily to communications service providers and third-party tower operators, and, as discussed further below, we hold a portfolio of highly interconnected data center facilities and related assets in the United States that we lease primarily to enterprises, network operators, cloud providers and supporting service providers.

In 2021, we added approximately 31,000 communications sites to our portfolios in Latin America and Europe and launched operations in Spain as part of our transaction with Telxius Telecom, S.A. (“Telxius,” and the acquisition, the “Telxius Acquisition,” as further discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Overview”). In addition, we launched operations in the Philippines through the construction of new sites therein and in Bangladesh through the acquisition of a controlling interest in Kirtonkhola Tower Bangladesh Limited (the “Bangladesh Acquisition”). As of December 31, 2021, our communications real estate portfolio of 220,131 communications sites included 43,308 communications sites in the U.S. & Canada, 75,725 communications sites in Asia-Pacific, 22,165 communications sites in Africa, 30,041 communications sites in Europe and 48,892 communications sites in Latin America, as well as urban telecommunications assets, including fiber, in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, India, Mexico and South Africa and other property interests in Australia, Canada and the United States.

In December 2021, we completed the acquisition of CoreSite Realty Corporation (“CoreSite”), consisting of over 20 data center facilities and related assets in eight United States markets, for total consideration of $10.4 billion, including the assumption and repayment of CoreSite’s existing debt (the “CoreSite Acquisition”). As of December 31, 2021, our data center portfolio consisted of 27 data center facilities across ten United States markets, including the assets acquired as part of the CoreSite Acquisition, as well as our previously acquired data center facilities.

In May 2021 and June 2021, in connection with the funding of the Telxius Acquisition, we entered into agreements with Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (“CDPQ”) and Allianz insurance companies and funds managed by Allianz Capital Partners GmbH, including the Allianz European Infrastructure Fund (collectively, “Allianz”), for CDPQ and Allianz to acquire 30% and 18% noncontrolling interests, respectively, in subsidiaries whose holdings consist of our operations in France, Germany, Poland and Spain (such subsidiaries collectively, “ATC Europe,” and the transactions, the “ATC Europe Transactions”). We completed the ATC Europe Transactions in September 2021 for total aggregate consideration of 2.6 billion Euros (“EUR”) (approximately $3.1 billion at the date of closing). After the completion of the ATC Europe Transactions, we hold a 52% controlling ownership interest in ATC Europe.

We operate as a real estate investment trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes (“REIT”). Accordingly, we generally are not required to pay U.S. federal income taxes on income generated by our REIT operations, including the income derived from leasing space on our towers and in our data centers, as we receive a dividends paid deduction for distributions to stockholders that generally offsets our REIT income and gains. However, we remain obligated to pay U.S. federal income taxes on earnings from our domestic taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). In addition, our international assets and operations, regardless of their classification for U.S. tax purposes, continue to be subject to taxation in the jurisdictions where those assets are held or those operations are conducted.

The use of TRSs enables us to continue to engage in certain businesses and jurisdictions while complying with REIT qualification requirements. We may, from time to time, change the election of previously designated TRSs to be included as part of the REIT. As of December 31, 2021, our REIT-qualified businesses included our U.S. tower leasing business, a majority of our U.S. indoor DAS networks business, our Services and Data Centers segments, as well as most of our operations in 

1

Table of Contents 

Canada, Costa Rica, France, Germany, Mexico and Nigeria. In January 2022, a majority of our operations in Ghana, Kenya, South Africa and Uganda became part of the REIT.

During the fourth quarter of 2021, as a result of the CoreSite Acquisition, we updated our reportable segments to add a Data Centers segment. The Data Centers segment is included within our property operations. We will now report our results in seven segments – U.S. & Canada property (which includes all assets in the United States and Canada, other than our data center facilities and related assets), Asia-Pacific property, Africa property, Europe property, Latin America property, Data Centers and Services. We believe this change provides greater visibility into our operating segments and aligns our reporting with management’s current approach of allocating costs and resources, managing growth and profitability and assessing the operating performance of our business segments. This change applies to our business operations results beginning with the fourth quarter of 2021 and had no impact on our consolidated financial statements for any prior periods. Historical financial information included in this Annual Report has not been adjusted as the amounts attributable to data center assets were insignificant as prior to the fourth quarter of 2021, we owned one data center. 

Products and Services

Property Operations 

Our property operations accounted for 97%, 99% and 98% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our revenue is primarily generated from tenant leases. Our tenants lease space on our communications real estate, where they install and maintain their equipment. Rental payments vary considerably depending upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, amount, type and position of tenant equipment on the tower, remaining tower capacity and tower location. Our costs typically include ground rent (which is primarily fixed under long-term lease agreements with annual cost escalations) and power and fuel costs, some or all of which may be passed through to our tenants, as well as property taxes and repair and maintenance expenses. Our property operations have generated consistent growth in revenue and typically have low cash flow volatility due to the following characteristics:

•Long-term tenant leases with contractual rent escalations. In general, our tenant leases for our communications sites with wireless carriers have initial non-cancellable terms of five to ten years with multiple renewal terms, with provisions that periodically increase the rent due under the lease, typically annually, based on a fixed escalation percentage (averaging approximately 3% in the United States) or an inflationary index in most of our international markets, or a combination of both. Based upon foreign currency exchange rates and the tenant leases in place as of December 31, 2021, we expect to generate over $61 billion of non-cancellable tenant lease revenue over future periods, before the impact of straight-line lease accounting. 

•Consistent demand for our sites. As a result of rapidly growing usage of mobile data and other wireless services and the corresponding wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent demand for our communications sites. We believe that our global asset base positions us well to benefit from the increasing proliferation of advanced wireless devices and the increasing usage of high bandwidth applications on those devices. We have the ability to add new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants on our sites, which typically results in incremental revenue and modest incremental costs. Our site portfolio and our established tenant base provide us with a solid platform for new business opportunities, which has historically resulted in consistent and predictable organic revenue growth.

•High lease renewal rates. Our tenants tend to renew leases because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and repositioning a site in their network may be expensive and may adversely affect network quality. Historically, churn has averaged approximately 1% to 2% of tenant billings per year. We define churn as tenant billings lost when a tenant cancels or does not renew its lease or, in limited circumstances, when the lease rates on existing leases are reduced. We derive our churn rate for a given year by dividing our tenant billings lost on this basis by our prior-year tenant billings. As discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Overview,” we experienced elevated levels of churn in recent years due to carrier consolidation-driven churn in India. We anticipate that our churn rate in our Asia-Pacific property segment will moderate over time, however, in the immediate term, we believe that our churn rate may remain elevated as, among other things, our tenants in India evaluate how best to comply with the recent court rulings by the Supreme Court of India and determine their obligations under payment plans for the adjusted gross revenue (“AGR”) fees and charges prescribed by such court, as further discussed in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors—Our business, and that of our customers, is subject to laws, regulations and administrative and judicial decisions, and changes thereto, that could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do or impact our competitive landscape.” Additionally, we expect that our churn rate in our U.S. & Canada property segment will be elevated for a period of several years due to contractual lease cancellations 

2

Table of Contents 

and non-renewals pursuant to the terms of our master lease agreement with T-Mobile US, Inc. (“T-Mobile,” and the agreement, the “T-Mobile MLA”) entered into in September 2020. 

•High operating margins. Incremental operating costs associated with adding new tenants or equipment to an existing communications site are relatively minimal. Therefore, as tenants or equipment are added, the substantial majority of incremental revenue flows through to gross margin and operating profit. In addition, in many of our international markets, certain expenses, such as ground rent or power and fuel costs, are reimbursed or shared by our tenant base.

•Low maintenance capital expenditures. On average, we require relatively low amounts of annual capital expenditures to maintain our communications sites.

Our property business includes the operation of communications sites and managed networks, the leasing of property interests and, in select markets, the operation of fiber, the operation of data centers and the provision of backup power through shared generators. Our presence in a number of markets at different relative stages of wireless development provides us with significant diversification and long-term growth potential. Our property segments accounted for the following percentage of consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31,: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Communications Sites. Approximately 95% of revenue in our property segments was attributable to our communications sites, excluding DAS networks, for each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. 

We lease space on our communications sites to tenants providing a diverse range of communications services, including cellular voice and data, broadcasting, mobile video and a number of other applications. In addition, in many of our international markets, we receive pass-through revenue from our tenants to cover certain costs, including power and fuel costs and ground rent. Our top tenants by revenue for each property segment are as follows for the year ended December 31, 2021:

•U.S. & Canada: AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”); T-Mobile; and Verizon Wireless accounted for an aggregate of 88% of U.S. & Canada property segment revenue. 

•Asia-Pacific: Vodafone Idea Limited; Bharti Airtel Limited (“Airtel”); and Reliance Jio accounted for an aggregate of 89% of Asia-Pacific property segment revenue. 

•Africa: Airtel; and MTN Group Limited (“MTN”) accounted for an aggregate of 73% of Africa property segment revenue. 

•Europe: Telefónica S.A. (“Telefónica”); and Bouygues accounted for an aggregate of 74% of Europe property segment revenue. 

•Latin America: AT&T; Telefónica; and América Móvil accounted for an aggregate of 60% of Latin America property segment revenue. 

Accordingly, we are subject to certain risks, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors—A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers, and we are sensitive to adverse changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our customers.” In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption “Risk Factors—Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.”

Managed Networks, Fiber and Related Assets, Data Centers and Related Assets, Property Interests and Shared Generators. In addition to our communications sites, we also own and operate several types of managed network solutions, provide communications site management services to third parties, manage and lease property interests under carrier or other third-party communications sites, provide the right to use fiber, operate data center facilities and provide back-up power sources to tenants at our sites. The balance of our property segment revenue not attributable to our communications sites was attributable to these items.

•Managed Networks. We own and operate DAS networks in the United States and certain international markets. We obtain rights from property owners to install and operate in-building DAS networks, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our installations. We also offer a small portfolio of outdoor DAS networks as a complementary shared infrastructure solution for our tenants in the United States and in certain 

3

Table of Contents 

international markets. Typically, we have designed, built and operated our outdoor DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or delay deployment of more traditional wireless communications sites, such as macro tower sites. We also hold lease rights and easement interests on rooftops capable of hosting communications equipment in locations where towers are generally not a viable solution based on area characteristics. In addition, we provide management services to property owners in the United States who elect to retain full rights to their property while simultaneously marketing the rooftop for wireless communications equipment installation. As the demand for advanced wireless services in urban markets evolves, we continue to evaluate a variety of infrastructure solutions, including small cells and other network architectures that may support our tenants’ networks in these areas.

•Fiber and Related Assets. We own and operate fiber and related assets in certain international markets. We currently provide the right to use such fiber and related assets to communications and internet service providers and third-party operators to support their telecommunications infrastructure. We expect to continue to evaluate opportunities to invest selectively in and expand these and other similar assets in the future as part of advanced network deployments. 

•Data Centers and Related Assets. As a result of our recent data center acquisitions, we own and operate data center facilities and related assets in the United States, which consist of specialized and secure buildings that house networking, storage and communications technology infrastructure, including servers, storage devices, switches, routers and fiber optic transmission equipment. These buildings are designed to provide the power, cooling and network connectivity necessary to efficiently operate this equipment. Data centers located at points where many communications networks converge can also function as interconnection hubs where customers are able to connect to multiple networks, cloud companies and other service providers to exchange traffic and interoperate with each other.

•Property Interests. We own portfolios of property interests in Australia, Canada and the United States, including land under carrier or other third-party communications sites, which provide recurring cash flow under complementary leasing arrangements.

•Shared Generators. We have contracts with certain of our tenants in the United States pursuant to which we provide access to shared backup power generators.

Services Operations

We offer tower-related services in the United States, including site application, zoning and permitting and structural analysis services. Our services operations primarily support our site leasing business, including through the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. This segment accounted for 3%, 1% and 2% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

Site Application, Zoning and Permitting. We engage in site application services on our own behalf in connection with our tower development projects, as well as on behalf of our tenants. We typically work with our tenants’ engineers to determine the geographic areas where new communications sites will best address the tenants’ needs and meet their coverage objectives. Once a new site is identified, we acquire the rights to the land or structure on which the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary approvals are obtained to construct and operate the communications site.

Structural Analysis. We offer structural analysis services to wireless carriers in connection with the installation of their communications equipment on our towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower structure can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if an upgrade is needed, which enables our tenants to better assess potential sites before making an installation decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing tenants by, among other things, reducing the time required to achieve on-air readiness, while also providing opportunities to offer structural analysis services to third parties.

Strategy

Operational Strategy

As the use of wireless services on handsets, tablets and other advanced mobile devices grows and evolves, there is a corresponding increase in demand for the communications infrastructure required to deploy current and future generations of wireless communications technologies. To capture this demand, our primary operational focus is to (i) increase the occupancy of our existing communications real estate portfolio to support global connectivity, (ii) invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio, (iii) further improve our operational performance and efficiency, including through platform expansion initiatives, and (iv) maintain a strong balance sheet. We believe these efforts to meet our customers’ needs will support and enhance our ability to capitalize on the growth in demand for wireless infrastructure. In addition, we expect to explore new opportunities to enhance or extend our shared communications infrastructure businesses, including those that may make our assets incrementally more attractive to new customers, or to existing customers for new uses, and those that increase our operational efficiency. 

4

Table of Contents 

•Increase the occupancy of our existing communications real estate portfolio to support global connectivity. We believe that our highest incremental returns will be achieved by leasing additional space on our existing communications sites. Increasing demand for wireless services in our served markets has resulted in significant capital spending by major wireless carriers and other connectivity providers. As a result, we anticipate growing demand for our communications sites because they are attractively located and typically have capacity available for additional tenants and equipment. In the United States, incremental carrier network activity is being driven by 4G network densification initiatives as well as the early stages of multiple concurrent 5G network deployments. In our international markets, carriers are increasingly deploying more advanced network technologies such as 4G and, in the case of our international markets with more mature network technology, 5G, while continuing to selectively augment legacy networks. We believe that the majority of our towers have capacity for additional tenants and that substantially all of our towers that are currently at or near full structural capacity can be upgraded or augmented to meet future tenant demand with relatively modest capital investment. Therefore, we will continue to target our sales and marketing activities to increase the utilization and return on investment of our existing communications sites.

•Invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio to meet our customers’ needs. We seek opportunities to invest in and grow our operations through our capital expenditure program and acquisitions. A significant portion of our inorganic growth has been focused on properties with lower initial tenancy because we believe that over time we can significantly increase tenancy levels, and therefore, drive strong returns on those assets. More recently, we have invested in strategic data center assets, including through the CoreSite Acquisition, which we believe can drive strong, recurring growth and also meaningfully enhance the value of our existing communications tower real estate through emerging edge compute opportunities in the future.

•Further improve our operational performance and efficiency. We continue to seek opportunities to improve our operational performance throughout the organization. This includes investing in our systems and people as we strive to improve efficiency and provide superior service to our customers. To achieve this, we intend to continue to focus on customer service initiatives, such as reducing cycle times for key functions, including lease processing and tower structural analysis. We are also focused on developing and implementing renewable power solutions across our footprint to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and help improve the overall efficiency of the communications infrastructure and wireless industries through our sustainability and platform expansion initiatives. We also expect to explore additional ways to use our platform expansion initiatives to enhance the efficiency of our operations over time.

•Maintain a strong balance sheet. We remain committed to disciplined financial policies, which we believe result in our ability to maintain a strong balance sheet and will support our overall strategy and focus on asset growth and operational excellence. As a result of these policies, we currently have investment grade credit ratings. We continue to focus on maintaining a robust liquidity position and, as of December 31, 2021, had $6.1 billion of available liquidity. We believe that our investment grade credit ratings provide us consistent access to the capital markets and our liquidity provides us the ability to continue to invest in growing and augmenting our business.

Capital Allocation Strategy

The objective of our capital allocation strategy is to simultaneously increase adjusted funds from operations per share and our return on invested capital over the long term. To maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT, we are required annually to distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for distributed earnings and excluding any net capital gain) to our stockholders. After complying with our REIT distribution requirements, we plan to continue to allocate our available capital among investment alternatives that meet or exceed our return on investment criteria, while taking into account the repayment of debt consistent with our financial policies. 

•Capital expenditure program. We expect to continue to invest in and expand our existing communications real estate portfolio through our capital expenditure program. This includes capital expenditures associated with site maintenance, increasing the capacity of our existing sites and projects such as new site and data center facility construction, land interest acquisitions and power solutions.

•Acquisitions. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of communications sites and other telecommunications infrastructure in our existing or new markets where we can meet or exceed our risk-adjusted return on investment criteria. The risk-adjusted hurdle rates used to evaluate acquisition opportunities consider additional factors such as the country and counterparties involved, investment and economic climate, legal and regulatory conditions and industry risk, among others.

•Return excess capital to stockholders. If we have excess capital available after funding (i) our required distributions, (ii) capital expenditures, (iii) the repayment of debt consistent with our financial policies and (iv) anticipated future investments, including acquisition and select platform expansion opportunities, we will seek to return such excess capital to stockholders, including through our stock repurchase programs. 

5

Table of Contents 

International Growth Strategy

We believe that, in certain international markets, we can create substantial value by either establishing a new, or expanding our existing, communications real estate leasing business. Therefore, we expect we will continue to seek international growth opportunities where we believe our risk-adjusted return objectives can be achieved. We strive to maintain a diversified approach to our international growth strategy by operating in a geographically diverse array of markets in a variety of stages of wireless network development. Our international growth strategy includes a disciplined, individualized market evaluation, in which we conduct the following analyses, among others:

•Country analysis. Prior to entering a new market, we conduct an extensive review of the country’s historical and projected macroeconomic fundamentals, including inflation and foreign currency exchange rate trends, demographics, capital markets, tax regime and investment alternatives, and the general business, political and legal environments, including property rights and regulatory regime.

•Wireless industry analysis. To confirm the presence of sufficient demand to support an independent tower leasing model, we analyze the competitiveness of the country’s wireless market. This includes an evaluation of the industry’s pricing environment, past and potential consolidation and the stage of its wireless network development. Characteristics that result in an attractive investment opportunity include (i) multiple competitive wireless service providers who are actively seeking to invest in deploying voice and data networks and (ii) ongoing or expected deployment of incremental spectrum from recent or anticipated auctions.

•Opportunity and counterparty analysis. Once an investment opportunity is identified within a geographic area with an attractive wireless industry, we conduct a multifaceted opportunity and counterparty analysis. This includes evaluating (i) the type of transaction, (ii) its ability to meet our risk-adjusted return criteria given the country and the counterparties involved, including the anticipated anchor tenant and (iii) how the transaction fits within our long-term strategic objectives, including future potential investment and expansion within the region.

Regulatory Matters 

Towers, Antennas and Fiber. Our U.S. and international tower leasing businesses are subject to national, state and local regulatory requirements with respect to the registration, siting, construction, lighting, marking and maintenance of our towers. In the United States, the construction of new towers or modifications to existing towers may require pre-approval by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), depending on factors such as tower height and proximity to public airfields. Towers requiring pre-approval must be registered with the FCC and maintained in accordance with FAA standards. Similar requirements regarding pre-approval of the construction and modification of towers are imposed by regulators in other countries. Non-compliance with applicable tower-related requirements may lead to monetary penalties or site deconstruction orders. 

Certain of our international operations are subject to regulatory requirements with respect to licensing, registration, permitting and public listings. In India, our subsidiary, ATC Telecom Infrastructure Private Limited (“ATC TIPL”), holds an Infrastructure Provider Category-I (“IP-I”) Registration Certificate issued by the Indian Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, which permits us to provide tower space to companies licensed as telecommunications service providers under the Indian Telegraph Act of 1885. As a condition to the IP-I, the Indian government has the right to take over telecommunications infrastructure in the case of emergency or war. Additionally, in 2018, ATC TIPL issued non-convertible debentures, which are listed on the National Stock Exchange of India. Although the debt is held by another subsidiary of ours and is eliminated in consolidation, ATC TIPL is still subject to the listing requirements of such exchange. 

In Asia-Pacific, our subsidiaries in the Philippines and Bangladesh are required to hold a registration or license in order to establish, manage and operate passive telecommunications infrastructure services.

In Africa, our subsidiaries in Burkina Faso, Ghana, Kenya, Niger, Nigeria and Uganda are required to hold a license in order to establish and maintain passive telecommunications infrastructure services and DAS networks for communications service providers. Additionally, in Uganda, our subsidiary is subject to review for three years commencing in 2020 by a monitoring trustee regarding compliance with certain conditions of approval of our acquisition in 2019 of Eaton Towers Holdings Limited. 

In Latin America, our subsidiary in Chile holds a license for the provision of passive telecommunications infrastructure and our subsidiary in Argentina holds a license for the leasing of fiber. The subsidiaries that hold our fiber business in Mexico and Brazil are also licensed and regulated as concession holders and permit holders authorized to provide telecommunications services. In many of the markets in which we operate, we are required to provide tower space to service providers on a non-discriminatory basis, subject to the negotiation of mutually agreeable terms. 

Our international business operations may be subject to increased licensing fees or ownership restrictions. For example, in South Africa, the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 2003 (the “BBBEE Act”) has established a legislative framework for the promotion of economic empowerment of South African citizens disadvantaged by Apartheid. Accordingly, 

6

Table of Contents 

the BBBEE Act and related codes measure BBBEE Act compliance and good corporate practice by the inclusion of certain ownership, management control, employment equity and other metrics for companies that do business there. In Kenya, our regulator requires all holders of a commercial license to issue at least 30% of their shares to Kenyans within three years of receiving the license unless a waiver is obtained to extend such period of compliance by a year. In addition, certain municipalities have sought to impose permit fees based upon structural or operational requirements of towers and certain regional and other governmental bodies have sought to impose levies or other forms of fees. Our foreign operations may be affected if a country’s regulatory authority restricts, revokes or modifies spectrum licenses of certain wireless service providers or implements limitations on foreign ownership.

In all countries where we operate, we are subject to zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by local authorities or community organizations. While these regulations vary, they typically require tower owners or tenants to obtain approval from local authorities or community standards organizations prior to tower construction or the addition of a new antenna to an existing tower. Local zoning authorities and community residents often oppose construction in their communities, which can delay or prevent new tower construction, new antenna installation or site upgrade projects, thereby limiting our ability to respond to tenant demand. This opposition and existing or new zoning regulations can increase costs associated with new tower construction, tower modifications or additions of new antennas to a site or site upgrades, as well as adversely affect the associated timing or cost of such projects. Further, additional regulations may be adopted that cause delays or result in additional costs to us or changes in the competitive landscape that may negatively affect our business. These factors could materially and adversely affect our operations. In the United States, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits any action by state and local authorities that would discriminate between different providers of wireless services or ban altogether the construction, modification or placement of communications sites. It also prohibits state or local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the facilities comply with FCC regulations. Further, in February 2012, the United States government adopted regulations requiring that local and state governments approve modifications or colocations that qualify as eligible facilities under the regulations. 

Portions of our business are subject to additional regulations, for example, in a number of states throughout the United States, certain of our subsidiaries hold Competitive Local Exchange Carrier (CLEC) or other status, in connection with the operation of our outdoor DAS networks business. In addition, we, or our customers, may be subject to new regulatory policies in certain jurisdictions from time to time that may materially and adversely affect our business or the demand for our communications sites. 

Data Centers. Our U.S. data center facilities and related assets are subject to various federal, state and local regulations, such as state and local fire and life safety regulations and Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) federal requirements. If one of our properties is not in compliance with these regulations, we may be required to make significant unanticipated expenditures in order to comply with such regulations and/or pay fines or civil damage awards. Existing regulations may subsequently change or future regulations may be enacted, either of which could have a similar impact as described above, and could materially and adversely affect our operations.

Environmental Matters. Our U.S. and international operations are subject to various national, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances, materials and wastes, the siting of our towers and the maintenance of our data center facilities. We may be required to obtain permits, pay additional property taxes, comply with regulatory requirements and make certain informational filings related to hazardous substances or devices used to provide power such as batteries, generators and fuel at our tower sites and/or data center facilities. With respect to our data center facilities, the presence of contamination, asbestos, mold or other air quality issues or the failure to remediate contamination, asbestos, mold or other air quality issues at our facilities may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Violations of these types of regulations could subject us to fines or criminal sanctions.

Additionally, in the United States and in other countries where we operate, before constructing a new tower or adding an antenna to an existing site, we must review and evaluate the impact of the action to determine whether it may significantly affect the environment and whether we must disclose any significant impacts in an environmental assessment. If a tower or new antenna might have a material adverse impact on the environment, FCC or other governmental approval of the tower or antenna could be significantly delayed.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and some of the states and localities in which we operate, have also enacted certain climate change laws and regulations and/or have begun regulating carbon footprints and greenhouse gas emissions and may adopt new regulations related to the use of fossil fuels or requiring the use of alternative fuel or renewable energy sources to power energy resources that serve our data centers. Efforts to support and enhance renewable electricity generation may increase our costs of electricity above those that would be incurred through procurement of conventional 

7

Table of Contents 

electricity. Our data centers require and consume significant amounts of power, including electricity generated by the burning of fossil fuels. These laws, regulations and stakeholder requests could limit our ability to develop new facilities or result in substantial compliance, maintenance, repair, retrofit and construction costs, including capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and other new equipment. Changes in regulations that affect electric power providers, such as regulations related to the control of greenhouse gas emissions or other climate change-related matters, could adversely affect the costs of electric power and increase our operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or those of our customers.

Health and Safety. In the United States and in other countries where we operate, we are subject to various national, state and local laws regarding employee health and safety, including protection from radio frequency exposure and air quality issues. Additionally, and in response to various national, state and local laws and guidance enacted in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented work-from-home arrangements and travel restrictions for our employees where practicable, as well as and other modifications to our business practices. 

Competition

Our industry is highly competitive. We compete, both for new business and for the acquisition of assets, with other public tower companies, such as Crown Castle International Corp., SBA Communications Corporation, Telesites S.A.B. de C.V. and Cellnex Telecom, S.A., wireless carrier tower consortia such as Indus Towers Limited and private tower companies, private equity sponsored firms, carrier-affiliated tower companies, independent wireless carriers, tower owners, broadcasters and owners of non-communications sites, including rooftops, utility towers, water towers and other alternative structures. Our data center business also competes with a variety of companies offering similar data center solutions and services, including space, power, interconnection and development services. We believe that location and capacity, network and/or interconnection density, price, quality and speed of service have been, and will continue to be, significant competitive factors affecting owners, operators and managers of communications sites and data center facilities.

Our services business competes with a variety of companies offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors includes site application consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consultants, structural engineering firms, tower owners/managers, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors and our tenants’ personnel. We believe that our tenants base their decisions for services on various criteria, including a company’s experience, local reputation, price and time for completion of a project.

For more information on demand trends in our industry, see Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Overview.”

Human Capital Resources 

As of December 31, 2021, we employed 6,378 full-time individuals, including 2,291 employees based in the United States and 4,087 employees based internationally. Our teams representing our over 20 countries around the world are our most important assets and fundamental to our success. Aligned with our business strategy, our human capital management strategy focuses on developing and delivering solutions to attract, develop, engage and retain top diverse talent in each of the countries where we operate. We consider our employee relations to be good. Our Chief Sustainability Officer regularly reports to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors on our initiatives related to human capital management. 

Employee Engagement. In 2021, our employees completed our biennial company-wide engagement survey to provide feedback on our company in nine key areas. The survey was completed by 91% of our employees globally. All of the nine areas measured scored over 70% in favorability. Of note, teamwork and leadership both received an 89% favorability score, employee engagement received an 87% favorability score and diversity and inclusion received an 83% favorability score. Additionally, our COVID-19 response received a 91% favorability score. The questions with the highest favorable ratings were focused on our culture, values and ethics. 

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Diversity, equity and inclusion are fundamental considerations and values for us in conducting business. A critical factor in our success is ensuring that each of these remains at the core of our business culture, infusing fresh ideas, helping us remain connected to our customers in a dynamic global market and ensuring mutual respect guides us in our interactions both internally and externally. We have adopted a Global Human Rights Statement, which can be found on our website. 

Our Board of Directors is a diverse group with respect to traditional diversity metrics such as gender, race and national origin, as well as professional background and skills, with four members of our board identifying as female and five identifying as part of a minority group. We are also committed to ensuring diverse representation among our employees. In 2021, 38% of all 

8

Table of Contents 

employees promoted globally were female, which is greater than the female representation in our workforce of 28%. And as of December 31, 2021, nearly 40% of management-level positions in the United States were also held by women.

Additionally, we have implemented several initiatives designed to help address social injustice and enhance our diversity. These include pledges from the American Tower Foundation of (i) $1.0 million for grants to organizations recommended by our Social Justice Committee to counter systemic racism and (ii) $1.0 million for scholarship funds at two Historically Black Colleges and Universities. In 2021, we created a new senior role, Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer, tasked with leading our diversity, equity and inclusion strategy by introducing new initiatives and best practices, including working with each region to develop relevant representation, development and recruitment goals and launching a company-wide resource center for our employees. 

Talent Development and Recruitment. As a critical investment in our capacity to provide our customers with outstanding support and customer service, we offer a variety of development opportunities unique to each market to cultivate our talent throughout our global organization. For individual contributors, we have 8,700 resources in up to five languages that focus on job-specific training and general topics, such as productivity, collaboration and project management. We create and customize courses to meet regional needs and update these courses regularly to address changing marketplace dynamics and employee interests.

Developing our managers is critical to our success, and over 30,000 resources and tools are provided to all levels of management. For example, the Management Development at American Tower program provides continuous development opportunities through training led by American Tower leaders. Managers learn tools and best practices that enable both management and team success, and that build and strengthen competencies to better respond to the needs of a growing and increasingly complex organization. Our annual Advanced Leadership Development Program, in collaboration with the INSEAD executive education program, provides our next generation leaders in Latin America, Europe and Africa with a twelve-week intensive workshop to enhance management and leadership skills. The Leadership Excellence at American Tower Program supports global senior leaders’ development through its partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Participants learn from leading experts on topics like global strategy and leading in uncertain times. We also have a comprehensive talent-management review process to develop future leaders and ensure effective succession planning.

Our recruiting efforts consistently include strategies to build diverse candidate pipelines and promote a culture that supports a diverse team of global employees. We are proud of our Leadership Development Program, which provides a recruitment opportunity for business school students, who are able to learn about different aspects of our business through regular rotational assignments. Further, with respect to our Leadership Development Program, as of December 31, 2021, 67% of our hires identified as part of a minority group and 33% identified as female. We have also increased our recruiting efforts with Historically Black Colleges and Universities as well as other recruiting efforts to build a diverse talent pipeline.

Workplace Safety. We are committed to the safety of our employees and surrounding communities. Depending on the role, team members are required to pass and complete regular safety training courses and follow specific tower and site safety protocols using complex operational manuals. A key component of our culture is a strong commitment to incident reporting and corrective actions, as well as a comprehensive program for ensuring vendor compliance with safety standards and certifications. Our strict adherence to the rigorous standards set forth by the relevant government agencies and other authorities, such as the Telecommunications Infrastructure Registered Apprenticeship Program and Telecommunications Industry Association, is critical to ensuring our towers are structurally safe for field personnel, vendors, customers and communities. In 2021, we created a new senior role, Chief Security Officer, tasked with helping to ensure the safety and security of our employees globally, as well as implementing best in class security protocols. 

Health and Wellness. We offer medical and parental leave benefits to full-time employees across all markets, with some local variation. As a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, we conduct wellness check-ins and offer resources to support our employees’ mental health and well-being, including access to a free Employee Assistance Program, which offers confidential assistance on a wide range of issues. We also offer market competitive benefits in all locations and, in 2021, introduced a behavioral health benefit in the United States to support employees’ mental well-being.

Executive Officers

For information about our Executive Officers, see Item 10 of this Annual Report under the caption “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.” 

Available Information

Our internet website address is www.americantower.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, and you should not consider information contained on our website as part of this Annual Report. You may access, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current 

9

Table of Contents 

Reports on Form 8-K, plus amendments to such reports as filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), through the “Investor Relations” portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

We have adopted a written Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Policy (the “Code of Conduct”) that applies to all of our employees and directors, including, but not limited to, our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Conduct is available on the “Corporate Responsibility” portion of our website and our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are available on the “Investor Relations” portion of our website. In the event we amend the Code of Conduct, or provide any waivers of the Code of Conduct to our directors or executive officers, we will disclose these events on our website as required by the regulations of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) and applicable law.

In addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge by writing us at the following address: 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, Attention: Investor Relations; or by calling us at (617) 375-7500.

ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS