ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about the Company’s exposure to market risk. The term market risk relates to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas, and NGL prices, interest rates, or foreign currency and adverse governmental actions. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. The forward-looking information provides indicators of how the Company views and manages its ongoing market risk exposures.

Commodity Price Risk

The Company’s revenues, earnings, cash flow, capital investments and, ultimately, future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices the Company receives for its crude oil, natural gas, and NGLs, which have historically been very volatile because of unpredictable events such as economic growth or retraction, weather, political climate, and global supply and demand. These factors have only been heightened as the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic became more apparent. The Company continually monitors its market risk exposure, including the impact and developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic, which introduced significant volatility in the financial markets beginning in early 2020.

The Company’s average crude oil realizations increased 74 percent to $68.97 per barrel in 2021 from $39.60 per barrel in 2020. The Company’s average natural gas price realizations increased 118 percent to $3.99 per Mcf in 2021 from $1.83 per Mcf in 2020. The Company’s average NGL realizations increased 141 percent to $28.48 per barrel in 2021 from $11.84 per barrel in 2020. Based on average daily production for 2021, a $1.00 per barrel change in the weighted average realized oil price would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $66 million, a $0.10 per Mcf change in the weighted average realized price of natural gas would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $30 million, and a $1.00 per barrel change in the weighted average realized NGL price would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $25 million.

The Company periodically enters into derivative positions on a portion of its projected crude oil and natural gas production through a variety of financial and physical arrangements intended to manage fluctuations in cash flows resulting from changes in commodity prices. Such derivative positions may include the use of futures contracts, swaps, and/or options. The Company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had open natural gas derivatives, not designated as cash flow hedges, in a liability position with a fair value of approximately $10 million. A 10 percent increase in basis differential of the hedges would increase the liability by approximately $30 million, while a 10 percent decrease in basis differential of the hedges would move the derivatives to an asset position of approximately $21 million. These fair value changes assume volatility based on prevailing market parameters as of December 31, 2021. Refer to Note 5—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report Form 10-K for notional volumes and terms with the Company’s derivative contracts.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2021, Apache had $6.3 billion, net, in outstanding notes and debentures, all of which was fixed-rate debt, with a weighted average interest rate of 5.07 percent. Although near-term changes in interest rates may affect the fair value of fixed-rate debt, such changes do not expose the Company to the risk of earnings or cash flow loss associated with that debt. The Company is also exposed to interest rate risk related to its interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents balances and amounts outstanding under the Apache and Altus Midstream LP credit facilities. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $279 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately 62 percent of which was invested in money market funds and short-term investments with major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2021, there were $542 million and $657 million of borrowings outstanding under the Apache Corporation and Altus Midstream LP revolving credit facilities, respectively. A change in the interest rate applicable to short-term investments and credit facility borrowings would have an immaterial impact on earnings and cash flows but could impact interest costs associated with future debt issuances or any future borrowings.

44

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The Company’s cash activities relating to certain international operations is based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash flows measured in foreign currencies. The Company’s North Sea production is sold under U.S. dollar contracts, while the majority of costs incurred are paid in British pounds. The Company’s Egypt production is primarily sold under U.S. dollar contracts, and the majority of costs incurred are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions denominated in British pounds are converted to U.S. dollar equivalents based on the average exchange rates during the period.

Foreign currency gains and losses also arise when monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the end of each month. Foreign currency gains and losses are included as either a component of “Other” under “Revenues and Other” or, as is the case when the Company re-measures its foreign tax liabilities, as a component of the Company’s provision for income tax expense on the statement of consolidated operations. A foreign currency net gain or loss of $3 million would result from a 10 percent weakening or strengthening, respectively, in the British pound as of December 31, 2021.

The Company is subject to increased foreign currency risk associated with the effects of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union. The Company has periodically entered into foreign exchange contracts in order to minimize the impact of fluctuating exchange rates for the British pound on the Company’s operating expenses. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with a total notional amount of £180 million that are used to reduce its exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates for the British pound. A 10 percent strengthening of the British pound against the U.S. dollar would result in a foreign currency net gain of $20 million, while a 10 percent weakening of the British pound against the U.S. dollar would result in a loss of $14 million as of December 31, 2021.

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA