ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

INVESTMENTS AND DEBT

As of December 31, 2021, we had short-term investments of $1.5 billion and long-term investments of $15.1 billion, including restricted deposits of $1.1 billion. The short-term investments generally consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and 12 months. The long-term investments consist of municipal, corporate and U.S. Treasury securities, government sponsored obligations, life insurance contracts, asset backed securities, equity securities and private equity investments and have maturities greater than one year. Restricted deposits consist of investments required by various state statutes to be deposited or pledged to state agencies. Due to the nature of the states' requirements, these investments are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date. Substantially all of our investments are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. Assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at December 31, 2021, the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $365 million. Declines in interest rates over time, including those that have occurred as markets experienced volatility related to the COVID-19 pandemic, will reduce our investment income.

We have a foreign currency swap for a notional amount of $705 million with a creditworthy financial institution to manage foreign exchange risk related to a Great British Pound denominated note receivable from a consolidated international subsidiary. As a result, the fair value of the swap varies with foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming a 1% increase in the Great British Pound to US Dollar foreign exchange rate at December 31, 2021, the fair value of our swap would decrease by approximately $7 million. An increase in the US Dollar to Great British Pound foreign exchange rate decreases the fair value of the swap and conversely, a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rate increases the value. The offsetting changes in fair value of the foreign currency swap and the remeasurement of the underlying intercompany note receivable were both recognized in investment and other income in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company does not hold or issue any derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

For a discussion of the interest rate risk that our investments are subject to, see "Risk Factors – Our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity."

60
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data