ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

Our financial position, earnings and cash flows are exposed to market risks and can be affected by, among other things, economic conditions, interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of investments. We have established policies, procedures and internal processes governing our management of market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.

Interest Rates

We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our actual and potential borrowing activities. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we entered into a new $2.5 billion multicurrency revolving credit facility, replacing the existing $2.5 billion credit agreement. We have the capacity to initially borrow up to $2.5 billion, and upon the closing of the proposed combination transaction with WarnerMedia and subject to certain conditions, the available commitments will increase by $3.5 billion, to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6 billion. We had no outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2021. We also have access to a commercial paper program, which had no outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2021. The interest rate on borrowings under the revolving credit facility is based on a floating rate based on the applicable currency of the borrowing plus a margin. The revolving credit facility matures in June 2026 and the option for up to two additional 364-day renewal periods. As of December 31, 2021, we had outstanding debt with a book value of $15.2 billion under various public senior notes with fixed interest rates.

Our current objectives in managing exposure to interest rate changes are to limit the impact of interest rates on earnings and cash flows. To achieve these objectives, we may enter into variable interest rate swaps or swaptions, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to LIBOR in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. We may also enter into fixed rate forward starting swaps to limit the impact of volatility in interest rates for future issuances of fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2021, we had entered into forward starting interest rate swap agreements with a notional value of $2 billion for the future issuances of fixed rate debt and a combination of swaption collars, purchase payer swaptions and interest rate swaps with a combined notional value of $15 billion for the expected issuances of debt associated with the upcoming WarnerMedia merger.

58

As of December 31, 2021, the fair value of our outstanding public senior notes was $17.2 billion. The fair value of our long-term debt may vary as a result of market conditions and other factors. A change in market interest rates will impact the fair market value of our fixed rate debt. The potential change in fair value of these senior notes from a 100 basis-point increase in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be a decrease in fair value of approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2021.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

We transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The risk of loss can be assessed from the perspective of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows, and future earnings. Our International Networks segment operates from hubs in EMEA, Latin America and Asia with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. To the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, drawdowns in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings or drawdowns from our revolving credit facility. The earnings of certain international operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely. 

The functional currency of most of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. We are exposed to foreign currency risk to the extent that we enter into transactions denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries’ respective functional currencies ("non-functional currency risk"). Such transactions include affiliate and ad sales arrangements, content arrangements, equipment and other vendor purchases, and intercompany transactions. Changes in exchange rates with respect to amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheets related to these items will result in unrealized foreign currency transaction gains and losses based upon period-end exchange rates. We also record realized foreign currency transaction gains and losses upon settlement of the transactions. Moreover, we will experience fluctuations in our revenues, costs and expenses solely as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 

We also are exposed to unfavorable and potentially volatile fluctuations of the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency, against the currencies of our operating subsidiaries when their respective financial statements are translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Cumulative translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of equity. Any increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against any foreign functional currency of one of our operating subsidiaries will cause us to experience unrealized foreign currency translation gains or losses with respect to amounts already invested in such foreign currencies. Accordingly, we may experience a negative impact on our net income, other comprehensive income (loss) and equity with respect to our holdings solely as a result of changes in foreign currency. 

The majority of our foreign currency exposure is to the Euro, Polish zloty, and the British Pound. We may enter into spot, forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change to hedge certain exposures associated with affiliate revenue, the cost for producing or acquiring content, certain intercompany transactions, or in connection with forecasted business combinations. These contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to reduce volatility of earnings and cash flows. Most of our non-functional currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and capital expenditures were not hedged as of December 31, 2021. We generally do not hedge against the risk that we may incur non-cash losses upon the translation of the financial statements of our subsidiaries and affiliates into U.S. dollars. (See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

Derivatives

We may use derivative financial instruments to modify our exposure to exogenous events and market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and the fair value of investments with readily determinable fair values. We do not use derivative financial instruments unless there is an underlying exposure. While derivatives are used to mitigate cash flow risk and the risk of declines in fair value, they also limit potential economic benefits to our business in the event of positive shifts in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and market values. We do not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. (See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

59

Market Values of Investments

In addition to derivatives, we had investments in entities accounted for as equity method investments, equity investments, and other highly liquid instruments, such as money market and mutual funds, that are accounted for at fair value. (See Note 4 and Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) Investments in mutual funds include both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities that carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our income from such investments may decrease in the future.

60

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]