Item 1. Business

OVERVIEW

Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex"), a Maryland corporation, is an S&P 500 company that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Essex owns all of its interest in its real estate and other investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership" or "EPLP"). Essex is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2021, had an approximately 96.6% general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership. In this report, the terms the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" also refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc., the Operating Partnership and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Essex and/or the Operating Partnership.

Essex has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994. Essex completed its initial public offering on June 13, 1994. In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company for financial reporting purposes.

The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities, located along the West Coast of the United States. As of December 31, 2021, the Company owned or had ownership interests in 252 operating apartment communities, aggregating 61,911 apartment homes, excluding the Company's ownership in preferred equity co-investments, loan investments, three operating commercial buildings, and a development pipeline comprised of one consolidated project and one unconsolidated joint venture project aggregating 371 apartment homes (collectively, the "Portfolio").

The Company’s website address is http://www.essex.com. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on the Company's website shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this report. 

BUSINESS STRATEGIES

The following is a discussion of the Company’s business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management.

Business Strategies

Research Driven Approach to Investments – The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge. The Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating markets and focusing on the following strategic criteria:

•Major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million;

•Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways;

•Rental demand enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and

•Housing demand based on job growth, proximity to jobs, high median incomes and the quality of life including related commuting factors.

Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, and local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly. The Company seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions. Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields.

Property Operations – The Company manages its communities by focusing on activities that may generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation. The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below:

3
•Property Management – Oversee delivery and quality of the housing provided to our tenants and manage the properties financial performance.

•Capital Preservation – The Company's asset management services are responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company’s communities.

•Business Planning and Control – Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with significant investment decisions. These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers, the operations leadership team, and senior management.

•Development and Redevelopment – The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company’s communities.

CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

Acquisitions of Real Estate Interests

Acquisitions are an important component of the Company’s business plan. The tables below summarize acquisition activity for the year ended December 31, 2021 ($ in millions):

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company purchased or increased its interests in six communities consisting of 1,033 apartment homes and two commercial properties for approximately $432.3 million. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)In November 2021, the Company purchased a managing interest in a single asset entity owning a 179-unit apartment home community located in Vista, CA, for a contract price of $44.0 million, at the Company’s pro rata share.

(2) In June 2021, the Company purchased the joint venture partner's 50.0% membership interest in the BEX III, LLC co-investment that owned The Village at Toluca Lake based on a property valuation of $63.5 million. In conjunction with the acquisition, $29.5 million of mortgage debt that encumbered the property was paid off. 

(3) Represents the contact price for the entire property, not the Company’s share.

(4) In November 2021, the Company converted its existing $11.0 million preferred equity investment in Silver into a 58.0% equity ownership interest in the property. Based on a consolidation analysis, the Company accounts for this investment under the equity method investment. 

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company purchased two fully-leased commercial properties for approximately $86.0 million. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4
Dispositions of Real Estate

As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all of its communities and sells those which no longer meet its strategic criteria. The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities, other real estate investments or to fund other commitments. The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect its ongoing operations. In general, the Company seeks to offset the dilutive impact on long-term earnings and funds from operations from these dispositions through the positive impact of reinvestment of proceeds.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company sold four communities consisting of 912 apartment homes for approximately $330.0 million.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The Company recognized a $69.2 million gain on sale. In conjunction with the sale, the Company repaid $29.7 million of mortgage debt that encumbered the property.

(2) The Company recognized an immaterial gain on sale.

(3) The Company recognized a $30.8 million gain on sale.

(4) The Company recognized a $42.9 million gain on sale. 

Development Pipeline

The Company defines development projects as new communities that are being constructed, or are newly constructed and are in a phase of lease-up and have not yet reached stabilized operations. As of December 31, 2021, the Company's development pipeline was comprised of one consolidated project under development and one unconsolidated joint venture project under development aggregating 371 apartment homes, with total incurred costs of $156.0 million, and estimated remaining project costs of approximately $61.0 million, $32.6 million of which represents the Company's share of estimated remaining costs, for total estimated project costs of $217.0 million. 

The Company defines predevelopment projects as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with an expected high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had various consolidated predevelopment projects. The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes or sale.

5
The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s development pipeline ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes costs related to the entire project, including both the Company's and joint venture partners' costs. Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects. For predevelopment projects, only incurred costs are included in estimated costs.

(2)Incurred project cost and estimated project cost are net of a projected value for low income housing tax credit proceeds and the value of the tax-exempt bond structure.

Long Term Debt

During 2021, the Company made regularly scheduled principal payments and loan payoffs of $3.5 million to its secured mortgage notes payable at an average interest rate of 2.9%.

In March 2021, the Operating Partnership issued $450.0 million of senior unsecured notes due on March 1, 2028 with a coupon rate of 1.700% per annum (the "2028 Notes"), which are payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2021. The 2028 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 99.423% of par value. The 2028 Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are unconditionally guaranteed by Essex. The Company used the net proceeds of this offering to repay upcoming debt maturities, including all or a portion of certain unsecured term loans, and for general corporate and working capital purposes.

In June 2021, the Operating Partnership issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes due on June 15, 2031 with a coupon rate of 2.550% per annum (the "2031 Notes"), which are payable on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on December 15, 2021. The 2031 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 99.367% of par value. The 2031 Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are unconditionally guaranteed by Essex. The Company used the net proceeds of this offering to repay upcoming debt maturities, including to fund the redemption of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount (plus the make-whole amount and accrued and unpaid interest) of its outstanding 3.375% senior unsecured notes due January 2023, and for other general corporate and working capital purposes.

Bank Debt

As of December 31, 2021, Moody’s Investor Service and Standard and Poor's ("S&P") credit agencies rated Essex Property Trust, Inc. and Essex Portfolio, L.P. Baa1/Stable and BBB+/Stable, respectively.

At December 31, 2021, the Company had two unsecured lines of credit aggregating $1.24 billion. The Company's $1.2 billion credit facility had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.775%, with a scheduled maturity date in September 2025 with three 6-month extensions, exercisable at the Company's option. The Company's $35.0 million working capital unsecured line of credit had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.775%, with a scheduled maturity date in February 2023. 

6
Equity Transactions

In September 2021, the Company entered into a new equity distribution agreement pursuant to which the Company may offer and sell shares of its common stock having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $900.0 million (the “2021 ATM Program”). In connection with the 2021 ATM Program, the Company may also enter into related forward sale agreements, and may sell shares of its common stock pursuant to these agreements. The use of a forward sale agreement would allow the Company to lock in a share price on the sale of shares of its common stock at the time the agreement is executed, but defer receipt of the proceeds from the sale of shares until a later date should the Company elect to settle such forward sale agreement, in whole or in part, in shares of its common stock.

The 2021 ATM Program replaces the Company’s prior equity distribution agreement entered into in September 2018 (the “2018 ATM Program”), which was terminated upon the establishment of the 2021 ATM Program. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company did not issue any shares of common stock through the 2021 ATM Program or through the 2018 ATM Program. As of December 31, 2021, there were no outstanding forward sale agreements, and $900.0 million of shares remain available to be sold under the 2021 ATM Program. 

During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company repurchased and retired 40,000 shares totaling $9.2 million, including commissions. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had $214.5 million of purchase authority remaining under its $250.0 million stock repurchase plan.

Co-investments

The Company has entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures or partnerships (including limited liability companies) through which we own an indirect economic interest in less than 100% of the community or land or other investments owned directly by the joint venture or partnership. For each joint venture the Company holds a non-controlling interest in the venture and earns customary management fees and may earn development fees, asset property management fees, and a promote interest.

The Company has also made, and may continue in the future to make, preferred equity investments in various multifamily development projects. The Company earns a preferred rate of return on these investments.

HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

Company Overview and Values

The Company is headquartered in San Mateo, CA, and has regional offices in Woodland Hills, CA; Irvine, CA and Bellevue, WA. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had 1,757 employees, ninety-nine percent (99%) of which were full-time employees, and of which 1,382 employees worked in operations and 375 were employed in the corporate offices. The Company's mission is to create quality communities in premier locations and it is critical to the Company's mission that it attracts, trains and retains a talented and diverse team by providing a better place to work and significant opportunities for professional growth. The Company's culture supports its mission and is guided by its core values: to act with integrity, to care about what matters, to do right with urgency, to lead at every level and to seek fairness. The Company seeks to reinforce those values within its workforce.

Workplace Diversity

The Company believes it has one of the most diverse workforces among its peers in the real estate industry. The Company believes that its robust and integrated diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy, which utilizes training programs, employee committees, and executive sponsorships to strengthen and promote diversity, equal opportunity, and fair treatment for all Company associates. As of December 31, 2021, the Company's workforce was approximately 43% Hispanic or Latino, 29% White, 12% Asian, 8% Black or African American, 1% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, 1% American Indian or Alaska Native, and 5% two or more races. 1% of employees chose to not disclose their race. As of December 31, 2021, the Company's workforce was 42% female and 58% male, of which corporate associates were 56% female and on-site operational associates were 38% female. The Company had 308 females in positions of manager or higher, representing 65% of managerial positions. Additionally, 50% of the Company’s executive officers are female and 56% of the Company’s senior executives are female. The tables below detail the Company's gender representation by position and the age diversity of its workforce.

The Company has a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ("DEI") Committee which directs the overarching goal setting, implementation, and follow-up for DEI initiatives and whose chairperson reports directly to the CEO on the Committee’s 

7
activities. The Company supports the employee-led affinity groups, Women at Essex and the LGBTQ+ focused Rainbow Alliance, which foster a sense of community and inclusion for a diverse mix of associates at the Company through discussions and activities that are intended to engage, educate, enable, and empower the Company's employees. All associates are offered training aimed at preventing workplace harassment, including harassment based on age, gender or ethnicity, and all managers are required to complete harassment training. In 2021, the Company provided 2,878 hours of training for all its employees covering the foundations of DEI and awareness of unconscious bias in the workplace.

The Company is committed to pay equity and conducts a pay equity analysis on an annual basis. The Company's pay equity analysis for 2021 indicated a zero percent (0%) pay gap between men and women.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Table excludes two employees that did not declare gender.

(2) Gender is labeled as how respondents elected to be self-identified.

(3) Includes one Field - VP Property Management position that oversees Operations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Training and Development

The Company values leadership at every level and demonstrates such value with respect to its associates by providing opportunities for all associates to develop personal and professional skills and by offering programs to encourage employee retention and advancement. In 2021, over 36,000 hours of training and development programs were provided to associates, with our investment in training totaling almost $375,000. These programs include: leadership training, communication training, individual learning plans, Community Manager and Maintenance Manager training, and mentorship programs. Additionally, the Company provides its associates with outside educational benefits by offering an annual $3,000 tuition reimbursement to further support professional growth. To identify, retain and reward top performers, the Company offers a tenure program, which involves a cash gift for every five years of service, as well as excellence awards and a spot bonus recognition program to reward associates for good teamwork, good ideas and good service. The Company encourages internal promotions and hiring for open positions. In 2021, the Company promoted 16% of its employees to higher positions in the Company. Additionally, the Company engages in succession planning for its leadership and managerial positions and its executive team identifies and mentors the Company's top talent in order to ensure strong leadership at the Company for the future.

Employee Well-Being

The Company's compensation and benefits program and safety practices further reinforce its commitment to investing in the well-being of its associates while ensuring that its employees are fairly incentivized to ensure fulfillment of the Company’s mission. The Company offers competitive compensation and a standard suite of benefits, including health insurance, a retirement plan with a $6,000 annual matching potential benefit, life and disability coverage, and commuter benefits. 

8
Additionally, the Company offers a housing discount for associates that live at Company communities, and additionally offers retirement support, associate discount programs, and health benefit credits for participation in wellness programs. In 2021, the Company revised its wellness program to ensure associates had increased ability to rest and recharge including additional days off and resources to encourage physical, mental, and financial well-being. The Company engages in an annual compensation study to ensure that its compensation is aligned with market standards and that the Company is appropriately compensating its top performers.

Providing a safe working environment and ensuring employee safety is imperative to the Company. The Company has safety policies in place that coincide with an Injury & Illness Prevention Program, which seeks to prevent workplace accidents and protect the health and safety of the Company's associates. In 2021, the Company provided safety training to Community Managers, Maintenance Supervisors, and Maintenance Technicians on topics including Industrial Safety and Health, Confined Space Awareness, Electrical Safety and Protection, Active Shooter Event, Fire Extinguishing, Safety Data Sheets, Safe Lifting the E-Way, Ladder Safety, and Heat Stress in the Workplace. 

As an essential business operating in 2021, the Company's on-site teams supported its residents by providing administrative, operational and maintenance assistance during the COVID-19 pandemic. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, in order to best protect and support the Company's associates working on-site, the Company and its affiliates spent over $5.0 million on new COVID-19 related protocols and other costs. The Company undertook various COVID-19 safety measures, including implementing work from home where possible, purchasing personal protective equipment and establishing physical distancing and other health safety procedures for its on-site employees, providing paid leave to employees affected by COVID-19, increasing cleaning protocols at its sites and offices, prohibiting all non-essential work-related travel, requiring masks to be worn at all offices and when entering resident homes, and providing regular communication about COVID-19 impacts and protocols to its associates. Keeping the Company's associates healthy and safe continues to be critical, and the Company hopes its actions contributed toward minimizing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Community and Social Impact

The Company believes volunteering can create positive change in the communities where our associates live and work and that the Company's commitment to giving back helps it attract and retain associates. The Company's Volunteer Program is aimed at supporting and encouraging eligible associates to become actively involved in their communities through the Company's support of charity initiatives and offering paid hours for volunteer time. Additionally, in 2020 the Company established the Essex Cares program to provide direct aid to the Company’s residents, associates, and local communities. The programs created within Essex Cares provide assistance for in-need segments of the community, including those who have experienced financial hardships caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Employee Engagement

In order to engage and promote communication with our associates and solicit meaningful feedback on our efforts to create a positive work environment, the Company issues engagement pulse surveys to all associates annually. The results of the 2021 survey indicate that 94% of surveyed associates consider that their day-to-day work directly impacts the Company’s mission and vision, 94% believe that their opinions and ideas matter at Essex, and 94% feel that the Company supports diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace.

INSURANCE 

The Company purchases general liability and property insurance coverage, including loss of rent, for each of its communities. The Company also purchases limited earthquake, terrorism, environmental and flood insurance. There are certain types of losses which may not be covered or could exceed coverage limits. The insurance programs are subject to deductibles and self-insured retentions in varying amounts. The Company utilizes a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC ("PWI") to self-insure certain earthquake and property losses. As of December 31, 2021, PWI had cash and marketable securities of approximately $198.1 million, and is consolidated in the Company's financial statements.

All of the Company's communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity. The Company evaluates its financial loss exposure to seismic events by using actuarial loss models developed by the insurance industry and in most cases property vulnerability analysis based on structural evaluations by seismic consultants. The Company manages this exposure, where considered appropriate, desirable, and cost-effective, by upgrading properties to increase their resistance to forces caused by seismic events, by considering available funds and coverages provided by PWI and/or by purchasing seismic insurance. In most cases the Company also purchases limited earthquake insurance for certain properties owned by the Company's co-investments. 

9
In addition, the Company carries other types of insurance coverage related to a variety of risks and exposures. 

Based on market conditions, the Company may change or potentially eliminate insurance coverages, or increase levels of self-insurance. Further, the Company may incur losses, which could be material, due to uninsured risks, deductibles and self-insured retentions, and/or losses in excess of coverage limits.

COMPETITION

There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company’s communities in attracting tenants. These include other apartment communities, condominiums and single-family homes. If the demand for the Company’s communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing housing, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

The Company faces competition from other REITs, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities. Some competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. This competition may result in increased costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and/or develops.

WORKING CAPITAL

The Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit, access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition of real estate are sufficient to meet all of its reasonably anticipated cash needs during 2022.

The timing, source and amounts of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive to changes in interest rates, stock price, and other fluctuations in the capital markets environment, which can affect the Company’s plans for acquisitions, dispositions, development and redevelopment activities.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

As a real estate owner and operator, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and may be subject to liability and the costs of removal or remediation of certain potentially hazardous materials that may be present in our communities. See the discussion under the caption, "Risks Related to Real Estate Investments and Our Operations - The Company’s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations, which discussion is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.

OTHER MATTERS

Certain Policies of the Company

The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities’ underlying assets are real estate.

The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, Northern California, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions. However, these practices may be reviewed and modified periodically by management.

10
ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS