Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk Management

Market risk is the potential loss from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market prices. Our exposure to market risk includes our long-term debt, our revolving credit facilities, derivative instruments and cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables, investments, merchant accounts payable and deferred merchant bookings denominated in foreign currencies. We manage our exposure to these risks through established policies and procedures. Our objective is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and market exposures from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates.

Interest Rate Risk

In August 2014, we issued $500 million senior unsecured notes with a fixed rate of 4.5%. In June 2015, we issued Euro 650 million of senior unsecured notes with a fixed rate of 2.5%. (See “Foreign Exchange Risk” below for further discussion or our 2.5% Notes.) In December 2015, we issued $750 million of senior unsecured notes with a fixed rate of 5.0%. In September 2017, we issued $1 billion of senior unsecured notes with a fixed rate of 3.8%. In September 2019, we issued $1.25 billion of senior unsecured notes with a fixed rate of 3.25%. In May 2020, we issued $2 billion of senior unsecured notes due May 2025 that bear interest at 6.25%, of which $956 million in aggregate principal was subsequently repaid in 2021. In July 2020, we issued $500 million of senior unsecured notes due December 2023 that bear interest at 3.6% and $750 million of senior unsecured notes due August 2027 that bear interest at 4.625%. In March 2021, we issued $1 billion of senior unsecured notes due March 2031 that bear interest at 2.95%. The 2.5%, 3.6%, 4.5%, 6.25%, 5.0%, 4.625%, 3.8%, 3.25%, and 2.95% senior unsecured notes are collectively the “Senior Notes.” In February 2021, we issued $1 billion of convertible senior unsecured notes due February 2026 with a fixed rate of 0% (the “Convertible Notes”). As a result, if market interest rates decline, our required payments will exceed those based on market rates. Additionally, the senior unsecured notes issued in May and July 2020, and March 2021 are subject to interest rate adjustments should our credit ratings be adjusted downwards, which would result in increased interest expense in the future. The total estimated fair value of our Senior Notes and Convertible Notes was approximately $9.2 billion and $9.1 billion as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. The fair value was determined based on quoted market prices in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. A 50 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would decrease or increase the fair value of our Notes by approximately $200 million. 

We maintain revolving credit facilities of $2 billion, which bear interest based on market rates plus a spread determined by our credit ratings. Because our interest rate is tied to a market rate, we will be susceptible to fluctuations in interest rates if, consistent with our practice to date, we do not hedge the interest rate exposure arising from any borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. We had no revolving credit facilities borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020.

46
Foreign Exchange Risk

We conduct business in certain international markets, primarily in Australia, Canada, China, the United Kingdom, and the European Union. Because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign exchange rates. Our primary exposure to foreign currency risk relates to transacting in foreign currency and recording the activity in U.S. dollars. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and these other currencies will result in transaction gains or losses, which we recognize in our consolidated statements of operations.

To the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies. Additionally, we use foreign currency forward contracts to economically hedge certain merchant revenue exposures, foreign denominated liabilities related to certain of our loyalty programs and our other foreign currency-denominated operating liabilities. These instruments are typically short-term and are recorded at fair value with gains and losses recorded in other, net. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had a net forward asset of $3 million included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and a net forward liability of $14 million included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, respectively. We may enter into additional foreign exchange derivative contracts or other economic hedges in the future. Our goal in managing our foreign exchange risk is to reduce to the extent practicable our potential exposure to the changes that exchange rates might have on our earnings, cash flows and financial position. We make a number of estimates in conducting hedging activities including in some cases the level of future bookings, cancellations, refunds, customer stay patterns and payments in foreign currencies. In the event those estimates differ significantly from actual results, we could experience greater volatility as a result of our hedges.

In June 2015, we issued Euro 650 million of registered senior unsecured notes that are due in June 2022 and bear interest at 2.5%. The aggregate principal value of the 2.5% Notes is designated as a hedge of our net investment in certain Euro functional currency subsidiaries. The notes are measured at Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rates at each balance sheet date and transaction gains or losses due to changes in rates are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The Euro-denominated net assets of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at each balance sheet date, with effects of foreign currency changes also reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Since the notional amount of the recorded Euro-denominated debt is less than the notional amount of our net investment, we do not expect to incur any ineffectiveness on this hedge.

Future net transaction gains and losses are inherently difficult to predict as they are reliant on how the multiple currencies in which we transact fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar, the relative composition and denomination of current assets and liabilities each period, and our effectiveness at forecasting and managing, through balance sheet netting or the use of derivative contracts, such exposures. As an example, if the foreign currencies in which we hold net asset balances were to all weaken 10% against the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in which we hold net liability balances were to all strengthen 10% against the U.S. dollar, we would recognize foreign exchange losses of approximately $13 million based on our foreign currency forward positions (including the impact of forward positions economically hedging our merchant revenue exposures) and the net asset or liability balances of our foreign denominated cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, deferred merchant bookings and merchant accounts payable balances as of December 31, 2021. As the net composition of these balances fluctuate frequently, even daily, as do foreign exchange rates, the example loss could be compounded or reduced significantly within a given period.

During 2021, 2020 and 2019, we recorded net foreign exchange rate losses of approximately $48 million ($37 million loss excluding the contracts economically hedging our forecasted merchant revenue), net foreign exchange rate gains of approximately $71 million ($2 million gain excluding the contracts economically hedging our forecasted merchant revenue) and net foreign exchange rate losses of approximately $34 million ($34 million loss excluding the contracts economically hedging our forecasted merchant revenue). As we increase our operations in international markets, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates increases. The economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. These changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our financing and operating strategies.

Part II. Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data