PART I 

Item 1. Business. 

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements” made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), regarding our general business strategies, anticipated market potential, the potential impact of costs, including material and labor costs, the potential impact of inflation, the potential of our brands expected capital spending, expected pension contributions, expected impact of acquisitions, the anticipated effects of recently issued accounting standards on our financial statements, planned business strategies, future financial performance and other matters. Statements that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “projects,” “estimates,” “plans” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would,” “may” and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is based on the expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry, business and future financial results available at the time this report is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Although we believe that these statements are based on reasonable assumptions, they are subject to numerous factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those indicated in such statements. These factors include those listed in the section below entitled “Risk Factors.” Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any such obligation to, update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events, new information or changes to future results over time or otherwise, except as required by the law. 

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “Fortune Brands,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Our Company 

We are a leading home and security products company that competes in attractive long-term growth markets in our product categories. We sell our products through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented toward builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors, “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers, e-commerce and other retail outlets. 

Our Strategy 

Build on leading business and brand positions in attractive growth and return categories. We have leading brands with what we believe to be sustainable competitive advantages in many of our product categories, which we sell primarily in North America and China. We believe that established brands are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers in their respective categories and that we have the opportunity to, among other things, gain share in the marketplace and continue to strengthen many of our brands through cross-branding, expanding into adjacent product categories, and expanding in international and e-commerce markets. We are committed to continuing to invest in our capacity and supply chain to strengthen our business and continue to meet demand for our products.  

Develop innovative products and processes for customers and consumers. We have a long track record of successful product and process innovations that introduce valued new products to our customers and consumers. We are committed to continuing to invest in new product development and enhance customer service to strengthen our leading brands and penetrate adjacent markets, including in the digital space and connected products. 

3 

Enhance returns and deploy our cash flow to high-return opportunities. We continue to believe our most attractive opportunities are to invest in profitable organic growth initiatives, pursue accretive strategic acquisitions, non-controlling equity investments, and joint ventures, and return cash to stockholders through a combination of dividends and repurchases of our common stock.  

Advance our digital strategy to fuel growth. We continue to invest in our digital capabilities to leverage our scale across technology, data and talent to further accelerate and sustain growth in e-commerce and connected products. 

Invest in appropriate ESG initiatives that positively impact our employees and community and conduct business responsibly. We believe that advancing environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) initiatives are critical to making sure we continue to serve our customers and consumers to meet their needs. As a manufacturer, conducting business ethically is a priority for our businesses. We continue to look for ways to improve our environmental, social and governance programs and practices by focusing on ways to improve water conservation, waste reduction and carbon and climate impact, keep our employees safe and create a culture where all employees are treated with dignity and respect.  

Invest in a common set of capabilities across the enterprise, known as the Fortune Brands Advantage. 

While our business segments are focused on distinct product categories and are responsible for their own performance, the Fortune Brands Advantage is an operating model consisting of a set of unifying capabilities that we believe are critical to our strategic growth across all of our businesses. The Fortune Brands Advantage currently consists of three critical pillars:  

Category Management - Partnering with our channel partners to drive optimal performance and best serve our consumers through actionable category insights. 

Global Supply Chain Excellence - Leveraging our robust, global supply chain to strategically drive scale efficiencies with cutting edge capabilities. 

Complexity Reduction - Simplifying workstreams to be even more efficient. 

We continue to grow our competencies in these areas, allowing each of our businesses to take advantage of available opportunities for revenue growth and margin improvement, no matter the market environment.  

Business Segments 

We have three business segments: Plumbing, Outdoors & Security and Cabinets. Our segments compete on the basis of innovation, fashion, quality, price, service and responsiveness to distributor, retailer and installer needs, as well as end-user consumer preferences. Our markets are very competitive. Approximately 16% of 2021 net sales were to international markets, and sales to two of the Company’s customers, The Home Depot, Inc. (“The Home Depot”) and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (“Lowe’s”), each accounted for more than 14% of the Company’s net sales in 2021. Sales to all U.S. home centers in the aggregate were approximately 35% of net sales in 2021. In 2021, sales to our top ten customers represented less than half of total sales. 

Plumbing. Our Plumbing segment manufactures or assembles and sells faucets, accessories, kitchen sinks and waste disposals, predominantly under the Moen, ROHL, Riobel, Victoria+Albert, Perrin & Rowe and Shaws brands. Although this segment sells products principally in the U.S., China and Canada, this segment also sells in Mexico, Southeast Asia, Europe and South America. Approximately 32% of 2021 net sales were to international markets. This segment sells directly through its own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers’ representatives, primarily to wholesalers, home centers, mass merchandisers and industrial distributors. This segment is increasingly investing in digital trends and “smart” home capabilities. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 21% of net sales of the Plumbing segment in 2021 . This segment’s chief competitors include Masco, Kohler, LIXIL Group, InSinkErator (owned by Emerson Electronic Company), Huida, Hgill, and Jomoo and imported private-label brands. 

4 

Outdoors & Security. Our Outdoors & Security segment manufactures and sells fiberglass and steel entry door systems under the Therma-Tru brand, storm, screen and security doors under the Larson brand, composite decking, railing and cladding under the Fiberon brand, and urethane millwork under the Fypon brand. It also manufactures, sources and distributes locks, safety and security devices, and electronic security products under the Master Lock and American Lock brands and fire resistant safes, security containers and commercial cabinets under the SentrySafe brand. Larson, a North American market leading brand of storm, screen and security doors, was acquired in December 2020. This segment sells products principally in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Central America, Japan and Australia. Approximately 10% of 2021 net sales were to international markets. This segment’s principal customers are home centers, hardware and other retailers, millwork building products and wholesale distributors, and specialty dealers that provide products to the residential new construction market, as well as to the remodeling and renovation markets. In addition, it sells lock systems and fire resistant safes to locksmiths, industrial and institutional users, and original equipment manufacturers. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 30% of net sales of the Outdoors & Security segment in 2021. Therma-Tru, Larson, Fiberon and Fypon brands compete with Masonite, JELD-WEN, Andersen, Trex, Azek, Plastpro, Pella and various regional and local suppliers. The Master Lock brand competes with Abus, W.H. Brady, Hampton, Allegion, Assa Abloy and various imports. The SentrySafe brand competes with Magnum, Fortress and Interlocks. 

Cabinets. Our Cabinets segment manufactures high quality stock, semi-custom and custom cabinetry, as well as vanities, for the kitchen, bath and other parts of the home with a regional and international supply chain footprint. This segment sells a portfolio of brands, including AOK, Diamond Brands, KitchenCraft, Homecrest, Omega and EVE, that enable our customers to differentiate themselves against competitors. Substantially all of this segment’s sales are in North America. Approximately 6% of 2021 net sales were to international markets. This segment sells directly to kitchen and bath dealers, home centers, wholesalers, large builders and through e-commerce. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 39% of net sales of the Cabinets segment in 2021. This segment’s competitors include Cabinetworks Group (formerly ACPI) and American Woodmark, as well as a large number of overseas, regional and local competitors. 

Other Information 

Raw materials. The table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments. These materials are available from a number of sources. Volatility in the prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Intellectual property. Product innovation and branding are important to the success of our business. In addition to the brand protection offered by our trademarks, patent protection helps distinguish our unique product features in the market by preventing copying and making it more difficult for competitors to benefit unfairly from our design innovation. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various features used in products sold within all of our business segments. Although each of our segments relies on a number of patents and patent groups that, in the aggregate, provide important protections to the Company, no single patent or patent group is material to any of the Company’s segments. 

Human Capital Resources. As of December 31, 2021, Fortune Brands had more than 28,000 full-time and part-time employees worldwide (excluding contract workers). Approximately 77% of our workforce is composed of hourly production and distribution associates and the remaining population is composed of  

5 

associates in an office role. Approximately 14% of employees in the U.S. work under collective bargaining agreements. Below is a summary of the number of employees by segment and role: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We believe our associates are the key to our success. We invest in our teams and develop our associates to become the next generation of leaders to fuel innovation and drive Company growth. The Company also endeavors to create an environment that keeps our employees safe, treats them with dignity and respect and fosters a culture of performance. Fortune Brands does this through the programs summarized below, the objectives and related risks of each is overseen by our Board of Directors or its committees. 

Health and Safety 

Safety is a critical element to Fortune Brands’ growth strategy, integral to Company culture and one of our core values. This is reflected in our goal of zero safety incidents and through our efforts to create an injury-free workplace. Our Employee Safety & Environmental Stewardship Principles set standards for how we maintain a safe work environment and guides our business operations. The Company also has an Environmental, Health & Safety Leadership council comprised of representatives from across the Company’s businesses that share best practices and is responsible for driving environmental, health and safety strategy. This helps drive our best-in-class programs designed to reinforce positive behaviors, to empower our employees to actively take part in maintaining a safe work environment, to heighten awareness and to mitigate risk on critical safety components. Within each of our manufacturing and distribution facilities, we have site-specific safety and environmental plans designed to reduce risk. Through a continued commitment to improve our safety performance, we have historically been successful in reducing the number of injuries sustained by our employees. Two of our primary safety measures are the Total Recordable Incidence Rate ("TRIR") and Lost Time Rate ("LTR"). For the year ended December 31, 2021, our TRIR was 1.34, compared to 1.20 for the year ended December 31, 2020 and our LTR was 0.48, compared to 0.40 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The year over year increases in in these numbers are reflective of the addition of Larson to our 2021 results.  

Our safety focus was demonstrated in our continued response to the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, we supplemented our enhanced safety protocols and implemented a mandatory mask mandate in our facilities when a location hits a positivity rate of 1% or more. We continue to offer flexibility to work remotely, with most office locations working on a hybrid schedule, but allowing for flexibility in that schedule where possible to minimize potential exposure of our employees. We also emphasized the importance of vaccines, by offering over 40 onsite vaccine clinics to employees, implementing flexible leave policies to allow people to get vaccinated, and offering educational opportunities on the safety and efficacy of vaccines. The Company also encouraged vaccinations and rewarded employees who were already vaccinated through a vaccine sweepstakes. 

Attracting and Retaining Superior Talent 

Fortune Brands is committed to investing in the physical, emotional and financial well-being of our employees and we believe that this is a critical component of our business strategy. To attract and retain superior talent at all levels of the Company, our total rewards are designed to be market competitive, align employee incentives with Company performance and support our employees across many aspects of their lives. We have a strong pay-for-performance culture that is supported by incentive programs that take into consideration business results and employee performance. We also offer a range of benefits including retirement savings plans, comprehensive healthcare and mental-health benefits including medical, dental and vision coverage, health savings and spending accounts, and employee assistance services. In 2021, we took steps to enhance our benefit plans starting in 2022 to further enhance  

6 

inclusivity by providing enhanced parental support benefits for our US associates, including fertility benefits and specialized support from adoption and surrogacy assistance to pregnancy and post-partum. Many of our businesses also offer paid parental leave. 

Creating a Culture of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”) 

We continue to take measured actions that create an inclusive culture and diverse workforce, increase representation and engagement of underrepresented associates and that are reflective of our consumers and communities. We believe that attracting and retaining talented and diverse employees will enable us to be more innovative, responsive to consumer needs and deliver strong performance and growth.  

Fortune Brands is a party to CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, a CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. We also continue to partner with Network of Executive Women to help focus on the development and advancement of women. In 2021, Fortune Brands joined the W.K. Kellogg Foundation Expanding Equity program, a program designed for advancing racial equity in the workplace. The program has helped the Company to create a comprehensive diversity, equity and inclusion equity to increase representation of underrepresented associates. The Company is committed to increasing representation of professionals of color and women through new hires and promotions, ensuring an inclusive culture by reducing the barriers to inclusion through our policies, programs, business practices and education and by demonstrating support for racial equality in our communities through outreach and investment. As of December 31, 2021, Fortune Brands’ workforce is composed of 38% women and approximately 44% of hourly production and distribution employees are people of color and 15% of employees in an office role are people of color. 

The Company implemented an unconscious bias learning program to increase DEI awareness and break bias in the decision making process for its senior leaders during 2020. In 2021, Fortune Brands continued its unconscious bias learning program to all global people managers and launched an organization-wide employee engagement survey among employees and implemented a system to foster employee engagement and drive continued improvement in DEI awareness. The Company also continued to expand its employee resource groups during 2021. We now have a dedicated employee resource group for our Women, Black, Hispanic and LGBTQ employees that are focused on activating and educating leaders and accelerating an inclusive culture. These actions supplement the Company’s (i) inclusive culture councils which are responsible for setting priorities and initiatives that support an inclusive work environment, and (ii) employee resource groups that support DEI initiatives and provide networking and professional development opportunities. 

Talent Development and Succession 

We aim to inspire and equip our associates to be successful in their current role within the organization and help them to develop the skills to build on opportunities to grow their career. We understand our most critical roles that serve as points of leverage to deliver value and place our best people in those roles, while attracting new talent and capabilities in support of continuous improvement in all we do. Fortune Brands uses performance management programs to support a high-performance culture, strengthening our employee engagement and helping to retain our top talent. The Company provides associates with relevant skills training and provides leadership training for production and distribution associates in a supervisory role and mid-level office associates. The Company also makes a significant investment in assessing our talent against the jobs both in the near term and the future and ensuring our leaders are prepared for greater levels of responsibility and can successfully transition into new roles. 

Succession planning for critical roles is an important part of our talent program. Succession and development plans are created and monitored to ensure progress is made along established timelines. 

Seasonality. All of our operating segments traditionally experience lower sales in the first quarter of the year when new home construction, repair and remodel activity and security buying are at their lowest. As a result of sales seasonality and associated timing of working capital fluctuations, our cash flow from operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the year. 

7 

Environmental matters. We believe that the cost of complying with the present environmental protection laws, before considering estimated recoveries either from other potentially responsible parties under Superfund or similar state laws or from insurance, will not have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 

Available Information. The Company’s website address is www.FBHS.com. The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov.  

8 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.