Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

In the normal course of our business, we are exposed to commodity risks related to changes in the prices of crude oil, NGL, and natural gas as well as changes in interest rates and foreign currency values. In the disclosures that follow, financial risk management activities refer to the mitigation of these risks through hedging activities.

Controls: We maintain a control environment under the direction of our Chief Risk Officer. Controls over instruments used in financial risk management activities include volumetric and term limits. Our Treasury department is responsible for administering and monitoring foreign exchange rate and interest rate hedging programs using similar controls and processes, where applicable. Hedging strategies are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Instruments: We primarily use forward commodity contracts, foreign exchange forward contracts, futures, swaps, and options in our risk management activities. These contracts are generally widely traded instruments with standardized terms. The following describes these instruments and how we use them:

•Swaps: We use financially settled swap contracts with third parties as part of our financial risk management activities. Cash flows from swap contracts are determined based on underlying commodity prices or interest rates and are typically settled over the life of the contract.

•Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts: We enter into forward contracts, primarily for the British Pound, Canadian Dollar and Malaysian Ringgit, which commit us to buy or sell a fixed amount of those currencies at a predetermined exchange rate on a future date.

•Exchange-traded Contracts: We may use exchange-traded contracts, including futures, on a number of different underlying energy commodities. These contracts are settled daily with the relevant exchange and may be subject to exchange position limits.

•Options: Options on various underlying energy commodities include exchange-traded and third-party contracts and have various exercise periods. As a purchaser of options, we pay a premium at the outset and are exposed to the favorable consequence of collecting payment upon exercise depending upon the underlying commodity price movement. As a seller of options, we receive a premium at the outset and are exposed to the unfavorable consequence of having to make payment upon exercise depending upon the underlying commodity price movement.

Financial Risk Management Activities

We have outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $145 million at December 31, 2021 that are used to reduce our exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates for various currencies. The change in fair value of foreign exchange contracts from a 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S. Dollar exchange rate is estimated to be a gain or loss of approximately $5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021.

At December 31, 2021, our total long-term debt, which was substantially comprised of fixed-rate instruments, had a carrying value of $8,458 million and a fair value of $9,897 million. A 15% increase or decrease in interest rates would decrease or increase the fair value of debt by approximately $390 million or $405 million, respectively. Any changes in interest rates do not impact our cash outflows associated with fixed-rate interest payments or settlement of debt principal, unless a debt instrument is repurchased prior to maturity.

For calendar year 2022, we have WTI collars with an average monthly floor price of $60 per barrel and an average monthly ceiling price of $100 per barrel for 90,000 bopd, and Brent collars with an average monthly floor price of $65 per barrel and an average monthly ceiling price of $105 per barrel for 60,000 bopd. As of December 31, 2021, an assumed 10% increase in the forward WTI and Brent crude oil prices used in determining the fair value of our collars would reduce the fair value of these derivative instruments by approximately $100 million, while an assumed 10% decrease in the same crude oil prices would increase the fair value of these derivative instruments by approximately $100 million.

See Note 20, Financial Risk Management Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

48

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data