ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our financial position is exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency exchange rate risk, commodity price risk, credit and capital market risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

Our drilling contracts in foreign countries generally provide for payment in U.S. dollars. Historically, in Argentina, while the contracts were denominated in the U.S. dollar, we were paid in Argentine pesos. The Argentine branch of one of our second‑tier subsidiaries remits U.S. dollars to its U.S. parent by converting the Argentine pesos into U.S. dollars through the Argentine Foreign Exchange Market and repatriating the U.S. dollars. In the future, other contracts or applicable law may require payments to be made in foreign currencies. As such, there can be no assurance that we will not experience in Argentina or elsewhere a devaluation of foreign currency, foreign exchange restrictions or other difficulties repatriating U.S. dollars even if we are able to negotiate the contract provisions designed to mitigate such risks. At September 30, 2022, a hypothetical decrease in value of 10 percent would result in a decrease in value of our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Argentine pesos by approximately $0.4 million.

Argentina’s economy is currently considered highly inflationary, which is defined as cumulative inflation rates exceeding 100 percent in the most recent three‑year period based on inflation data published by the respective governments. Nonetheless, all of our foreign operations use the U.S. dollar as the functional currency and local currency monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars with gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions included in current results of operations.

Commodity Price Risk

The demand for drilling services and solutions is derived from exploration and production companies spending money to explore and develop drilling prospects in search of crude oil and natural gas. Their spending is driven by their cash flow and financial strength, which is affected by trends in crude oil and natural gas commodity prices. Crude oil prices are determined by a number of factors including global supply and demand, the establishment of and compliance with production quotas by oil exporting countries, worldwide economic conditions and geopolitical factors. Crude oil and natural gas prices have historically been volatile and very difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. While current energy prices are important contributors to positive cash flow for customers, expectations about future prices and price volatility are generally more important for determining future spending levels. This volatility can lead many exploration and production companies to base their capital spending on much more conservative estimates of commodity prices. As a result, demand for drilling services and solutions is not always purely a function of the movement of commodity prices.

  2022 FORM 10-K  | 52
Credit and Capital Market Risk

Customers may finance their exploration activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Any deterioration in the credit and capital markets, as experienced in the past, can make it difficult for customers to obtain funding for their capital needs. A reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices or a reduction of available financing may result in customer credit defaults or reduced demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we may need to access capital markets to obtain financing. Our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, oil and gas prices, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of the drilling and overall oil and gas industry, and the liquidity of the capital markets. Many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets are outside of our control. No assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Further, we attempt to secure favorable prices through advanced ordering and purchasing for drilling rig components. While these materials have generally been available at acceptable prices, there is no assurance the prices will not vary significantly in the future. Any fluctuations in market conditions causing increased prices in materials and supplies could have a material adverse effect on future operating costs.

Interest Rate Risk

Our interest rate risk exposure results primarily from short‑term rates, mainly SOFR‑based, on any borrowings from our revolving credit facility. There were no outstanding borrowings under this facility at September 30, 2022, and our outstanding debt consisted of $550.0 million (face amount) in senior unsecured notes, which have a fixed rate of 2.90 percent and an estimated fair value of $430.7 million and $554.3 million as of September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Equity Price Risk

As of September 30, 2022, we had equity securities in ADNOC Drilling with a total fair value of $147.4 million. As of September 30, 2021 we had equity securities in Schlumberger Ltd. with a total fair value of $13.9 million. Our investment in ADNOC Drilling is subject to a three-year lockup period. We have applied the guidance in Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, in the initial accounting of the transaction and the subsequent revaluation of the investment balance, concluding that the contractual restriction on the sale of an equity security that is publicly traded is not considered in measuring fair value. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, we sold our remaining equity securities of approximately 467.5 thousand shares in Schlumberger, Ltd. and received proceeds of approximately $22.0 million. 

A hypothetical 10 percent decrease in the market price for our marketable equity securities as of September 30, 2022 would decrease the fair value by $14.7 million. These securities are subject to a wide variety and number of market‑related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. 

At November 9, 2022, the total fair value of our equity securities decreased to approximately $147.0 million. We continually monitor the fair value of the investments but are unable to predict future market volatility and any potential impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  2022 FORM 10-K  | 53
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA