PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

COMPANY OVERVIEW

IDEXX was incorporated in Delaware in 1983. We develop, manufacture, and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary, livestock and poultry, dairy and water testing industries. We also provide human medical point-of-care and laboratory diagnostics. Our primary products and services are:

•Point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprised of instruments, consumables, and rapid assay test kits;

•Veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services;

•Practice management and diagnostic imaging systems and services used by veterinarians;

•Health monitoring, biological materials testing, laboratory diagnostic instruments, and services used by the biomedical research community;

•Diagnostic, health-monitoring products for livestock, poultry, and dairy;

•Products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; and

•Point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers and SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR (COVID-19 test) used in the human diagnostics sector.

Our Purpose is to be a great company that creates exceptional long-term value for our customers, employees, and stockholders by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT

We operate primarily through three business segments: Companion Animal Group, Water quality products, and Livestock, Poultry and Dairy. Our Other operating segment combines and presents our human medical diagnostic products and services business with our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments.

Companion Animal Group (“CAG”) - Diagnostic and information management-based products and services for the companion animal veterinary industry, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions, outside reference laboratory services, and veterinary software and services.

CAG Diagnostics 

We provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians’ diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. Regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. The result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner.

Integrated Diagnostic Information Management. VetConnect PLUS is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients’ data from all of IDEXX’s diagnostic modalities. These integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight and enhanced decision-making. In addition, VetConnect PLUS provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians.

In-Clinic Diagnostic Solutions. Our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our IDEXX VetLab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis, and coagulation analyzers, as well as associated consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results. Our in-clinic diagnostic solutions also include a broad range of single-use, IDEXX SNAP rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate, and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal disease causing pathogens and health conditions. Additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments.

6

 Blood and Urine Chemistry. We have three blood and urine chemistry analyzers that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. We actively sell the Catalyst One Chemistry analyzer. We continue to support our Catalyst Dx and VetTest Chemistry analyzers. We also support the VetStat Electrolyte and Blood Gas analyzer. Sales of consumables to customers who use our chemistry analyzers provide the majority of our instrument consumables revenues from our installed base of IDEXX VetLab instruments. 

 Hematology. We sell three hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets (also called a complete blood count). These analyzers include the ProCyte One and ProCyte Dx hematology analyzers. We introduced the ProCyte One analyzer in 2020 and began delivery of these analyzers in 2021. We also sell the Coag Dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. While we currently do not sell the LaserCyte Dx hematology analyzer and the IDEXX VetAutoread hematology analyzer, we continue to support these analyzers.

 Rapid Assay. The SNAP rapid assays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may also be activated with results automatically captured and interpreted by the SNAP Pro Analyzer. This device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results with the pet owner on the SNAP Pro Analyzer screen, or via VetConnect PLUS. Our SNAPshot Dx analyzer can run multiple patient samples at once. The principal canine SNAP rapid assay tests include SNAP 4Dx Plus, which tests for the six vector-borne diseases causing pathogens, including Lyme disease as well as canine heartworm, and SNAP Heartworm RT, which tests for heartworm. Sales of our canine vector-borne disease tests are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practices in the Northern Hemisphere. The principal feline SNAP rapid assay tests include SNAP Feline Triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus (“FIV”) (which is similar to the virus that leads to AIDS in humans), and SNAP FIV/FeLV Combo Test, which tests for FIV and Feline leukemia virus ("FeLV").

 Urinalysis. The SediVue Dx analyzer is designed to provide automated real-time results in a fraction of the time of manual microscope analysis, which allows veterinary staff to perform a urine sediment analysis in approximately 3 minutes. The IDEXX VetLab UA analyzer provides rapid, automated capture of semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis from IDEXX UA strips and is validated specifically for veterinary use.

 IDEXX VetLab Station. The IDEXX VetLab Station (“IVLS”) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the IDEXX VetLab analyzers, and thus, provides reference laboratory information management system capability. IVLS also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to VetConnect PLUS. We sell IVLS as an integral component for our in-clinic analyzer suite. 

Outside Reference Laboratory Diagnostic and Consulting Services. We offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in many developed geographies worldwide, including customers in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, South Africa, South Korea, and Brazil, through a network of approximately 80 laboratories. Customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. Most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. Our diagnostic laboratory business also provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to biomedical research customers in North America, Europe, and Asia.

Our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. This menu of tests also includes a number of specialized tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases and conditions in dogs and cats, including parasites, heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes, renal disease, and infectious diseases.

Additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine, and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine, and ultrasound consulting. These services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the Internet.

7

Veterinary Software and Services & Diagnostic Imaging Systems

Veterinary Software and Services. We develop, market, and sell a portfolio of software and services for independent veterinary clinics and corporate groups. This portfolio includes:

 Practice management systems. Software, hardware, and integrated services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling, client communication, billing, and inventory management. Our practice information management systems offerings include cloud-based ezyVet, Animana, IDEXX Neo, and Cornerstone Cloud, and on-premise Cornerstone and DVMAX. To support the software system needs of practices, IDEXX provides integrated services including: Payment Solutions, Data Backup & Recovery, and Practice Supplies.

 Software applications that extend workflow capabilities for practices and groups. We are able to improve overall patient management and workflow optimization through coordination and tracking of every step of a patient during a hospital stay. Our SmartFlow cloud offering works in conjunction with major veterinary practice management systems, including Cornerstone, Animana, IDEXX Neo, DVMAX, and certain third-party practice management systems, and VetRadar provides workflow capability for ezyVet. 

 Client marketing and wellness plan management. In addition, we offer cloud-based client communication (Pet Health Network Pro and Pet Health Network 3D) and preventive care plan management software (Petly Plans) designed to strengthen the relationship between the veterinarian and the pet owner. To support the communication needs between general practices and specialty referral practices, IDEXX offers rVetLink software. Lastly, IDEXX Enterprise provides centralized management and reporting capabilities for groups of veterinary practices. 

Diagnostic Imaging Systems. Our diagnostic imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. We market and sell two diagnostic imaging systems primarily used in small animal veterinary applications: the IDEXX ImageVue DR50 and the IDEXX ImageVue DR30.

Our diagnostic imaging systems employ picture archiving and communication system (“PACS”) software called IDEXX-PACS, which facilitates radiographic image capture and review. IDEXX Web PACS is our cloud-based software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) offering for viewing, accessing, storing, and sharing multi-modality diagnostic images. IDEXX Web PACS is integrated with Cornerstone, ezyVet, IDEXX Neo, DVMAX, and IDEXX VetConnect PLUS to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. 

IDEXX I-Vision Mobile is a software application that allows veterinarians with IDEXX digital radiography systems the ability to request, view and send images using an iPad® mobile tablet. This application integrates with our IDEXX-PACS software. 

We believe that the breadth of our full diagnostic solution, including novel products and services developed and made available only by IDEXX, as well as the seamless software integration of our offering, provide a differentiated competitive advantage by giving veterinarians the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. We believe that with the use of our products and services, veterinary practices significantly improve the quality of veterinary care provided to their patients, increase staff efficiencies, and better communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner. We believe that these capabilities, enabled by the use of IDEXX products and services, improve the effectiveness and financial health of the veterinary practice.

8

Water quality products (“Water”) - Water provides innovative testing solutions for easy, rapid, and accurate detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water.

Water testing. Our principal products are the Colilert, Colilert-18, and Colisure tests, which detect the presence of total coliforms and E. coli in water. These organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. Our products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. Our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities, and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) standards. The tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater, and water from private wells. We also sell consumables, parts, and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products.

 Enterolert. Our Enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste, and recreational waters. Enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. 

 Pseudalert. Our Pseudalert products detect the presence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa, and bottled water. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause “hot-tub rash,” “swimmer’s ear,” and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems. 

 Filta-Max and Filta-Max xpress. Our Filta-Max and Filta-Max xpress products are used in the detection of Cryptosporidium and Giardia in water. Cryptosporidium and Giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. We also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. that complement our Cryptosporidium and Giardia testing products.

 Legiolert. Our Legiolert product is a simple culture method test for the detection of Legionella pneumophila, the most common Legionella species in water and the primary cause of Legionnaires’ disease. The Legiolert test is designed to be used on potable or non-potable water sources with results in seven days.

 Quanti-Tray products. Our Quanti-Tray products, when used in conjunction with our Colilert, Colilert-18, Colisure, Enterolert, Pseudalert, Heterotrophic Plate Count ("HPC") or Legiolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. Our Quanti-Tray Sealer PLUS, and Quanti-Tray Sealer 2X are used with the Quanti-Tray products for the determination of bacterial density in water samples. Our SimPlate for HPC product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample.

Livestock, Poultry and Dairy (“LPD”) - LPD provides diagnostic tests, services, and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve producer efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food.

Livestock, Poultry, Heard Health Screening and Production Management. We sell diagnostic tests, services and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve producer efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk. Our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to livestock veterinarians, producers, and processors. Our herd health screening services are offered to livestock veterinarians and producers. Our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (“BVDV”), Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (“PRRS”), and African Swine Fever ("ASFV"). BVDV is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. PRRS is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine, leading to increased piglet mortality, reduced growth, and vulnerability to secondary infections. Our RealPCR ASFV Test is a real-time polymerase chain reaction ("PCR") assay that provides early and accurate detection of ASFV supporting prevention, control, and eradication programs by veterinarians and producers. We also sell our Rapid Visual Pregnancy Test and Alertys On-Farm Pregnancy Test for cattle, which can detect pregnancy 28 days after breeding using whole blood samples.

Dairy products. Our principal dairy products use our SNAP test platform and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. Our primary product lines are SNAP Beta-Lactam ST and SNAPduo Beta-Tetra ST, which detect certain beta lactam and tetracycline antibiotic residues. We also sell SNAP tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as Aflatoxin M1. 

9

Other - Our Other operating segment combines and presents our human medical diagnostic products and services business (“OPTI Medical”) with our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments.

OPTI Medical. Through OPTI Medical, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. These OPTI analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas, and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. Our OPTI CCA-TS2 Blood Gas and Electrolyte analyzer contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized workflows, faster time to result, improved communication, and a multi-level electronic control. Similar to our earlier generation OPTI CCA and OPTI Touch Electrolyte analyzers, the OPTI CCA-TS2 analyzer runs whole blood, plasma, and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes.

Through OPTI Medical we also provide human COVID-19 testing products and laboratory services. On May 7, 2020, we announced that OPTI Medical was granted by the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") an Emergency Use Authorization ("EUA") for the OPTI SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR laboratory test kit for the detection of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. On June 5, 2020 OPTI Medical announced that it had received the CE mark certification in the European Union for its OPTI SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR laboratory test kit. Additionally, the FDA has granted EUA for the OPTI DNA/RNA Magnetic Bead Kit for nucleic acid extraction from respiratory samples to be used with the OPTI SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR test kit, which enables OPTI Medical Systems to provide laboratories with a complete OPTI Medical Systems-manufactured workflow solution for COVID-19 testing. We also provide human COVID-19 testing laboratories services to the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention in support of their COVID-19 testing program.

Other Activities. We own certain drug delivery technology intellectual property, that we continue to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, which are included in the Other segment.

Additional information about our products and services can be found on our website. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this annual report or any other filing we make with the SEC.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

We market, sell, and service our products worldwide through our marketing, customer service, sales, and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. We maintain sales offices outside the U.S. in all major regions including Africa, Asia Pacific, Canada, Europe, Middle East, and Latin America.

Generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements, and other factors. We market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the U.S. Outside the U.S., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. We sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide, generally through our direct sales force. We market our diagnostic imaging products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada. We market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Australia. We market our Water and LPD products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada. Outside the U.S. and Canada, we market these products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through selected independent distributors. We sell our OPTI products and services both directly and through independent human medical product distributors.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. We maintain active research and development programs in each of our business segments. Our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $161.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, or 5.0% of our consolidated revenue, $141.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, or 5.2% of our consolidated revenue and $133.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, or 5.5% of our consolidated revenue.

10

PATENTS AND LICENSES

We actively seek to obtain patent protection in the U.S. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. We also license patents and technologies from third parties. Patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to us based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for our inventions and other intellectual property; affording protection from competitors in certain sectors; enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings; strengthening our reputation and standing among customers, employees, and key suppliers; and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators, and other copiers of technologies. 

Important patents and licenses include those related to:

•Methods for detecting BVDV that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022;

•Reagents and methods for the detection of Anaplasma phagocytophilum that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022;

•Reagents and methods for the detection of Ehrlichia canis that began to expire in 2019 and will continue into 2022;

•Catalyst consumables that began to expire in 2020 and will continue into 2035;

•Catalyst instruments that expire beginning in 2026 and will continue into 2032;

•Reagents and methods for the detection of canine pancreatic lipase that expire in 2026; and

•Patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of SDMA that expire beginning in 2029 and will continue into 2037.

While we consider these technology rights to be important to us, a range of factors help to mitigate the future effects of patent and license expiration on our results of operations and financial position. These factors include publications, including peer-reviewed third-party studies, that demonstrate the accuracy of our products; our brand strength and reputation in the marketplace; the breadth, quality and integration of our product offerings; our existing customer relationships and our customer support; our sales force; our online ordering platform that enables direct ordering of (including establishing automatic reorder schedules for) our consumables, tests and other products by our customers; the applicable regulatory approval status for certain products; our continued investments in innovative product improvements that often result in new technologies and/or additional patents; our investment in diagnostic innovations that results in new product offerings that often are patentable and that expand the test menu for our in-clinic instruments and/or reference laboratory business; and our significant know-how, scale and investments related to manufacturing processes of associated product offerings and certain supply arrangements for consumables that are compatible with our instruments. Although we have certain patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties that are expected to expire in 2022 and beyond, the expiration of these patents and licenses, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or future operations. In addition, we already face robust competition as other companies have been successful in bringing competitive products to market, despite the protections afforded by these technology rights.

To the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody technologies protected by patents, copyrights, or trade secrets of others, we may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to sell our products. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent the sale of certain new or existing products. Refer to “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY

Many of the instruments that we sell are manufactured by third parties. We rely on third parties in our supply chain to supply us, and our direct suppliers, with certain important components, raw materials, and consumables used in or with our products. In some cases, these third parties are sole or single-source suppliers. From time to time, we seek to qualify alternative suppliers.

Instruments and consumables. Significant products supplied by sole and single-source providers include certain Catalyst Dx and Catalyst One consumables (other than electrolyte consumables and the fructosamine, T4, CRP, progesterone, and SDMA slides), VetTest slides, VetLyte consumables, LaserCyte Dx consumables, VetAutoread and ProCyte Dx analyzers and consumables, SediVue Dx urinalysis instruments and consumables, and certain components of our internally manufactured analyzers.

11

VetTest and certain Catalyst chemistry slides are supplied by Ortho under supply agreements that are currently set to expire in December of 2031. We are required to purchase all of our requirements for our current menu of Catalyst and VetTest chemistry slides from Ortho to the extent Ortho is able to supply those requirements. The agreements provide for pricing based on purchase volumes and a fixed annual inflationary adjustment. The agreements also prohibit Ortho from promoting and selling these chemistry slides in the veterinary sector, excluding the EU, other than to IDEXX. 

We purchase other analyzers and consumables under supply agreements with terms extending through 2034, which in some cases may be extended at our option. We have minimum purchase obligations under some of these agreements, and our failure to satisfy these obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these agreements. Refer to “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Other components. We purchase certain other products, raw materials, and components from sole and single-source suppliers. These products include certain diagnostic imaging systems and certain components used in our SNAP rapid assay and dairy devices, livestock and poultry testing kits and water testing products.

We have been successful in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of products purchased from sole and single-source suppliers. However, there can be no assurance that uninterrupted supply can be maintained if these agreements terminate for any reason or our suppliers otherwise are unable to satisfy our requirements for products. Refer to “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

BACKLOG

We do not generally maintain a significant backlog of orders and believe that our backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future sales.

COMPETITION

We compete with many companies ranging from large human and animal health pharmaceutical and medical diagnostics companies to small businesses focused on animal health. Our companion animal veterinary diagnostic products and services compete with both reference laboratory service and in-clinic product providers. Our competitors vary in our different sectors. In some sectors, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations conduct research activities and may commercialize products or services which could compete with our products, on their own or through joint ventures. Several of our direct and potential competitors have substantially greater financial and managerial resources than us, as well as greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development, and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. For more information on risks related to our competition, refer to “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors."

Competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below:

•Companion animal diagnostic offerings. We compete primarily on the basis of ease of use and speed of our products, diagnostic accuracy, product quality, breadth of our product line and services, differentiated product innovations, fully integrated technology, information management capability, enhancement of veterinary practice efficiency, availability of medical consultation, effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, quality of our technical and customer service, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services in comparison with competitive products and services. Our major competitors in most geographic locations in North America are Antech Diagnostics, a unit of VCA Inc., a division of Mars, Incorporated; Zoetis Inc. (including its wholly-owned subsidiary Abaxis, Inc.); Heska Corporation, and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. We also compete in certain international geographies with Zoetis, Fujifilm Holdings Corporation, Samsung Electronics, Arkray, Inc., Heska, Mindray and BioNote, Inc.

•Water, livestock, poultry, and dairy testing products. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy, product quality, and other performance characteristics of our products and services (including differentiated tests), the breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and customer service, our ability to receive regulatory approvals from governing agencies and our pricing relative to the value of our products in comparison with competitive products and services. Our competitors include highly focused smaller companies and multibillion-dollar companies with small livestock and poultry diagnostics and water testing solution franchises.

12

•Veterinary Software, Services and Diagnostic Imaging Systems. We compete primarily on the basis of functionality, connectivity to equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness of our implementation, training process and customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in technologies, enhancement of veterinary practice efficiency, and our pricing relative to the value of our products and services. We sell these products primarily in North America and Europe. Our largest competitor in North America and the U.K. is Covetrus, Inc., which offers several systems and leverages its animal health distribution business in sales and service. We also compete with numerous focused smaller companies throughout the geographies in which we offer veterinary software, including those offering cloud-based solutions. Our competitors in the diagnostic imaging systems sector include Sound-Eklin, Antech Diagnostics, FUJIFILM, and Heska.

•Human point-of-care medical diagnostic products. We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, menu, convenience, international distribution and service, instrument reliability, and our pricing relative to the value of our products. We compete primarily with large human medical diagnostics companies such as Radiometer A/S, Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics, Instrumentation Laboratory Company, Abbott Diagnostics, a division of Abbott Laboratories and Roche Diagnostics Corporation. We also compete with a number of companies around the world that produce human COVID-19 testing.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Many of our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies that relate to, among other things, product approvals, product registrations, manufacturing, import, export, distribution, marketing and promotion, labeling, recordkeeping, testing, quality, storage, product disposal, environmental compliance, and workplace safety. The following is a description of the principal regulations affecting our businesses.

Veterinary diagnostic products. These products include our diagnostic test kits for companion and food animal infectious diseases, including most of our livestock and poultry products and many of our rapid assay products. These products are licensed and regulated in the U.S. by the Center for Veterinary Biologics within the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (“APHIS”). These products must be approved by APHIS before they may be sold in and from the U.S. The APHIS regulatory approval process involves the submission of product validation data, including manufacturing process and facility documentation. Following regulatory licensure to market a product, APHIS requires that each lot of product be submitted for test review before release to customers. In addition, APHIS requires special approval to market products where test results are used in part for government-mandated disease management programs. A number of foreign governments accept APHIS approval to support product registration for sale, distribution, and use within their countries. However, compliance with extensive country-specific regulatory processes is required in connection with importing and marketing diagnostic products in Japan, Germany, Canada, Brazil, the Netherlands, China, and many other countries. We are also required to have a facility license from APHIS to manufacture USDA-licensed products. We have a facility license for our manufacturing facility in Westbrook, Maine which also covers our distribution center in Memphis, Tennessee. Our LPD manufacturing facility in Montpellier, France has been approved by APHIS and we have a permit to import one LPD product manufactured in Montpellier, France to the U.S. for distribution.

Our veterinary diagnostic slide and instrument systems, including T4, fructosamine, progesterone, CRP, and SDMA, are veterinary medical devices regulated by the FDA under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”). Other FDA regulated products include our non-licensed rapid assay products such as SNAP Pancreatic Lipase, Cortisol, Bile Acid, Foal IgG, and ProBNP. While the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by the FDA and does not subject us to FDA inspections or the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations (“cGMP”), the FDC Act specifies that these products must not be adulterated, mislabeled, or misbranded.

Water testing products. Our water tests are not subject to formal premarket regulatory approval. However, before a test can be used as part of a water quality monitoring program in the U.S. that is regulated by the EPA, the test method must first be approved by the EPA. The EPA approval process involves submission of extensive product performance data in accordance with an EPA-approved protocol, evaluation of the data by the EPA, and publication for public comment of any proposed approval in the Federal Register before final approval. Our Colilert, Colilert-18, Colisure, Quanti-Tray, Filta-Max xpress, Enterolert, and SimPlate for heterotrophic plate counts products have been approved by the EPA for use under various regulatory programs. Water testing products are subject to similarly extensive regulatory processes in other countries around the world.

13

Dairy testing products. Dairy products used in National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (“NCIMS”) milk-monitoring programs in the U.S. are regulated by the FDA as veterinary medical devices. However, before products requiring FDA approval can be sold in the U.S., performance data must be submitted in accordance with an FDA-approved protocol administered by an independent body, such as the Association of Analytical Chemists Research Institute (“AOAC RI”). Following approval of a product by the FDA, the product must also be accepted by NCIMS, an oversight body that includes state, federal, and industry representatives. Our SNAP Beta-Lactam antibiotic residue test product has been accepted by the FDA, NCIMS, and AOAC RI for sale in the U.S. While some foreign countries accept AOAC RI certification as part of their regulatory approval process, many countries have separate regulatory processes.

Human point-of-care electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. Our OPTI instrument systems are classified as Class I and/or Class II medical devices, and their design, manufacture, and marketing are regulated by the FDA. Accordingly, we must comply with cGMP in the manufacture of our OPTI products. The FDA’s Quality System regulations further set forth standards for product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records, and provide for inspections of our facilities by the FDA. New OPTI products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing, and which are submitted as a 510(k) application. These OPTI products are also subject to the regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold, including the EU Regulations on Medical Devices and In Vitro Diagnostic Devices.

Human COVID-19 test products. OPTI manufactures, sells and distributes PCR and antibody ELISA test kits for the detection of the virus that causes COVID-19. These test kits are subject to regulation by the FDA pursuant to the FDC Act, and more specifically, are sold and distributed pursuant to FDA Emergency Use Authorization. These products are also subject to the regulations governing the manufacturing and marketing of medical devices in other countries in which they are sold, including the EU Regulations on Medical Devices and In Vitro Diagnostic Devices.

Other Chemical, Environmental, and Human Health Safety Regulations. All IDEXX products must comply with applicable global product regulations, including those governing consumer product safety and materials requirements such as the Europeans Union's Electromagnetic Compatibility ("EMC") Directive, the European Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances ("REACH"), the Restriction of Hazardous Substances ("RoHS") Directive, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("WEEE") Directive. These complex regulatory requirements create risk to IDEXX’s ability to market and sell our products, our business, and our financial performance. For more information about the risks associated with various U.S. and foreign government regulation, refer to "Various U.S. and foreign government regulations could limit or delay our ability to market and sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business" under "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

In the European Union, our analyzers and certain associated equipment are subject to the requirements of the RoHS Directive, which regulates and restricts certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. Other countries, including China, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, and Turkey have implemented or anticipate implementing regulatory regimes similar to the RoHS Directive. Our veterinary diagnostic instrument systems are not subject to regulation under the European Medical Device Directive or the In Vitro Diagnostic Directive, which are both strictly applicable to human use products. However, these systems are required to meet CE certification, which require compliance with the RoHS Directive, the EMC Directive, and other safety requirements. Most countries in which we sell our products impose similar registrations and/or certification requirements.

The European Union was among the first to regulate and restrict the use of certain substances that we currently use in our products. These requirements include the Biocidal Products Regulation, which requires the use of only approved biocides in our products imported to or used in the European Union, and REACH, which regulates and restricts the use of certain chemicals in the European Union. Compliance with these regulations (and similar regulations that have been or may be adopted elsewhere, such as Australia, China, Russia, Turkey, Korea, and other countries) may require registration, notification, or certification regarding regulated substances, imposition of import restrictions, or in certain cases the redesign or reformulation of our products. Some of our products, including some of our Companion Animal products, may be subject to pending restriction of microplastics pursuant to REACH.

In the U.S., the EPA regulates chemical use similarly to the EU. In addition, certain states have their own chemical regulations, such as California's Proposition 65, which requires businesses to provide warnings to California residents about significant risk of exposures to chemicals in products that are known to cause cancer, birth defects, or other reproductive harm; and Maine's pending 2023 restrictions on PFAS (per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances) used in all products. 

14

In addition to the foregoing, our business is generally subject to various U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and other anti-competition authorities, and we are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, import and export laws and regulations, including U.S. import and export control and sanctions laws, and laws and regulations governing the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data. Development or acquisition of new products and technologies may subject us to additional areas of government regulation. These may involve medical device, water-quality and other regulations of the FDA, the EPA, the USDA, the FTC, and other federal agencies, as well as state, local and foreign governments.

HUMAN CAPITAL

As innovation and customer focus are important parts of our strategy to create long-term value, we aim to attract, motivate, develop, and retain talented employees at all levels who are aligned with and passionate about our Purpose by:

•Building and sustaining an inclusive, ethical culture that values diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI"); 

•Offering competitive and locally relevant compensation and benefits; and 

•Providing growth and development opportunities. 

Because our strategy includes developing strong, deep relationships with our veterinary customers, we have focused on growing our global companion animal diagnostics field-based organization.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. We believe that DEI among our employees helps drive both innovation and a better understanding of our increasingly global customer base. We employ inclusive recruitment practices to source diverse candidates and mitigate potential bias. Our global recruiting team connects our sourcing strategies with diversified talent channels and adopts core competencies that focus on valuing differences, to attract candidates with different backgrounds, ideas, and experiences who will help enrich our culture. 

As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 10,350 regular full-time and part-time employees, with underrepresented minorities representing an estimated 22.5% of our U.S. employees, as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Data regarding racial and ethnic background are based on self-identification by our U.S. employees; underrepresented minorities is defined as Black/African American, Asian, Hispanic/Latinx and Other. The percentages provided do not add up to 100% because some U.S. employees declined to specify race and/or ethnicity.

(2) Other is defined as American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races.

In addition, as of December 31, 2021, women represented 58% of our global employees and were represented in leadership as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Global Senior Leaders are employees in compensation grades considered Director or above.

(2) Global Senior Executives are employees in compensation grades considered Senior Vice President or above.

Compensation, Benefits and Well-being. We offer fair, competitive compensation and a wide array of competitive and locally relevant benefits (which vary by country and region) that support our employees’ overall well-being, including comprehensive health and welfare insurance, generous time-off and leave, and retirement and financial support. We provide emotional well-being services through our Employee Assistance Program and a variety of interactive resources as well as lifestyle coaching, a global well-being speaker series, and ergonomic programs that help support employees’ physical well-being. In addition, a majority of our employees have access to financial education and our U.S. employees can engage with a financial wellness coach for further tools and resources to reach their personal financial goals. 

15

As the COVID-19 pandemic spread globally in early 2020, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees as well as the communities in which we operate. These included having the majority of our employees work from home, while implementing additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work. We also provided a work-from-home fund to assist employees and added paid time off and caregiving support to enhance employee health and well-being. While many of our employees have continued to work from home since March 2020, we have re-opened some of our offices, consistent with public health guidance and protocols, and support flexible work options. We continue to monitor the state of the pandemic to ensure the continued safety and health of our employees.

Growth and Development. We are steadfast in our focus on cultivating the diverse leaders of tomorrow and making career development opportunities more accessible across the global organization. Our training is 100% virtual and available in multiple languages. Our career development programs are designed to build capabilities and enable career progression. We also encourage our employees to enhance their career development through job-related courses and degree programs.

Employee Turnover and Engagement. We monitor employee turnover and engagement to identify opportunities to strengthen our approach to human capital management. 

During 2021, our voluntary employee turnover rate was approximately 12%. Our voluntary turnover among managerial and professional staff was approximately 6%. With the contraction of the labor force as a result of the global pandemic, we have recently experienced the effects of the labor shortage in our staffing. We expect the labor shortage to continue in 2022 and will continue to monitor and analyze retention closely to identify any areas of concern.

We regularly conduct company-wide employee surveys conducted by a third party to collect employee input

on our culture, their experiences, and workplace conditions. These survey results provide insights that help us to improve employee engagement. Our most recent global employee survey received a high level of response and indicated an 82% engagement level. Given the pandemic-related impacts on our front-line workers' engagement, we are actively working to better understand what matters the most to them and what drives their engagement and retention. Some of the actions taken in 2021 as a result of this increased focus include increasing the frequency of bonus payments to twice per year for our U.S. operations workers and advancing market competitive pay increases, as appropriate. 

In 2022, we plan to further leverage the insights gained to develop a roadmap for improving front-line worker engagement and retention. We are also monitoring the current landscape of wage inflation and labor shortages in connection with our employees' overall compensation. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our principal executive offices are located at One IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine 04092, our telephone number is 207-556-0300, and our internet address is www.idexx.com. References to our website in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference for any purpose.

We make available free of charge at www.idexx.com our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of our reports filed electronically with the SEC may be accessed at www.sec.gov. 

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Ethics are also available on our website at www.idexx.com.

16

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS