ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and the other financial and operating information included elsewhere in this Annual Report.

This discussion contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and in other securities laws. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page iii of this Annual Report and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” beginning on page 9 of this Annual Report.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K27
Part II

OVERVIEW

COVID-19

In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared a novel strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”) a pandemic. While we have broad geographic and customer diversification with operations in 63 countries and no single customer accounting for more than approximately 1% of revenue during the year ended December 31, 2021, COVID-19 is a global pandemic impacting numerous industries and geographies. While our service operations have increased from the reductions we experienced during the first and second quarter of 2020, future service revenues remain uncertain and will be dependent on the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, including new variants of COVID-19 that may emerge. 

PROJECT SUMMIT

In October 2019, we announced Project Summit, our global program designed to better position us for future growth and achievement of our strategic objectives. As of December 31, 2021, we have completed Project Summit. As a result of the program we have simplified our global structure, rebalanced resources to focus on higher growth areas, realigned our management structure to create a more dynamic, agile organization, made investments to enhance the customer experience and leveraged new technology solutions that enabled us to modernize our service delivery model and more efficiently utilize our fleet, labor and real estate. Project Summit has improved annual Adjusted EBITDA (as defined below) by approximately $375.0 million exiting 2021, of which approximately $160.0 million and $165.0 million were realized in 2021 and 2020, respectively, with the remainder to come in 2022. 

2021

$160 million

Exiting 2021

$375 million

The implementation of Project Summit resulted in total operating expenditures ("Restructuring Charges") of approximately $450.0 million that primarily consisted of: (1) employee severance costs; (2) internal costs associated with the development and implementation of Project Summit initiatives; (3) professional fees, primarily related to third party consultants who assisted with the design and execution of various initiatives as well as project management activities and (4) system implementation and data conversion costs. The following table presents (in millions) total Restructuring Charges related to Project Summit from the inception of Project Summit through December 31, 2021 and for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We have also incurred approximately $33.8 million in capital expenditures related to Project Summit from the inception of Project Summit through December 31, 2021. 

28IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

DIVESTMENTS

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT BUSINESS 

On June 7, 2021, we sold our Intellectual Property Management ("IPM") business, also known as our technology escrow services business, which we predominantly operated in the United States, for total gross consideration of approximately $215.4 million (the “IPM Divestment”). As a result of the IPM Divestment, we recorded a gain on sale of approximately $179.0 million to Other (income) expense, net, during the year ended December 31, 2021, the substantial majority of which was recorded during the second quarter of 2021, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration received over the sum of the carrying value of the IPM business. Our IPM business represented approximately $14.2 million, $32.8 million and $33.2 million of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and approximately $6.8 million, $16.0 million and $17.2 million of total net income for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

IRON MOUNTAIN CONSUMER STORAGE 

In March 2019, we contributed our customer contracts and certain intellectual property and other assets used by us to operate our consumer storage business in the United States and Canada (the “IM Consumer Storage Assets”) and approximately $20.0 million in cash (gross of certain transaction expenses) (the “Cash Contribution”) to a strategic partnership (the “MakeSpace JV”) established by us and MakeSpace Labs, Inc. (“MakeSpace”) pursuant to a transaction which closed on March 19, 2019 (the "Consumer Storage Transaction"). Upon the closing of the Consumer Storage Transaction, the MakeSpace JV owned (i) the IM Consumer Storage Assets, (ii) the Cash Contribution and (iii) the customer contracts, intellectual property and certain other assets used by MakeSpace to operate its consumer storage business in the United States. As part of the Consumer Storage Transaction, we received an initial equity interest of approximately 34% in the MakeSpace JV (the “MakeSpace Investment”). In the second quarter of 2020, we committed to participate in a round of equity funding for the MakeSpace JV whereby we contributed $36.0 million of the $45.0 million being raised in installments between May 2020 through October 2021. At December 31, 2021, we owned 49.99% of the outstanding equity in the MakeSpace JV. 

In connection with the Consumer Storage Transaction and the MakeSpace Investment, we also entered into a storage and service agreement with the MakeSpace JV to provide certain storage and related services to the MakeSpace JV (the “MakeSpace Agreement”). Revenues and expenses associated with the MakeSpace Agreement are presented as a component of our Global RIM Business segment. During the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, we recognized revenue of approximately $34.7 million, $33.6 million and $22.5 million, respectively, associated with the MakeSpace Agreement.

As a result of the Consumer Storage Transaction, we recorded a gain on sale of approximately $4.2 million to Other (income) expense, net, during the first quarter of 2019, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration received over the sum of the carrying value of our consumer storage operations and (ii) the Cash Contribution.

________________________________________________________

As described in Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, we have concluded that the divestments of IPM and the IM Consumer Storage Assets in the Consumer Storage Transaction do not meet the criteria to be reported as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. 

GENERAL

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - KEY TRENDS 

•In spite of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced relatively steady volume in our Global RIM Business segment, with organic storage rental revenue growth driven primarily by revenue management. We expect organic storage rental revenue growth to benefit from revenue management and volume to be relatively stable in the near term.

•Our organic service revenue growth is primarily due to increases in our service activity, particularly in regions where governments have lifted or eased COVID-19-related restrictions on our customers’ non-essential business operations. We expect organic service revenue growth in 2022 to benefit from our new and existing digital offerings.

•We expect revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth to accelerate in 2022 with continued focus on new product and service offerings, innovation, customer solutions and market expansion. 

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K29
Part II

Our revenues consist of storage rental revenues as well as service revenues and are reflected net of sales and value-added taxes. Storage rental revenues, which are considered a key driver of financial performance for the storage and information management services industry, consist primarily of recurring periodic rental charges related to the storage of materials or data (generally on a per unit basis) that are typically retained by customers for many years and revenues associated with our data center operations. Service revenues include charges for related service activities, the most significant of which include: (1) the handling of records, including the addition of new records, temporary removal of records from storage, refiling of removed records, customer termination and permanent withdrawal fees, project revenues, and courier operations, consisting primarily of the pickup and delivery of records upon customer request; (2) destruction services, consisting primarily of secure shredding of sensitive documents and the subsequent sale of shredded paper for recycling, the price of which can fluctuate from period to period; (3) digital solutions, including the scanning, imaging and document conversion services of active and inactive records, and consulting services; and (4) data center services, including set up, monitoring and support of our customers' assets which are protected in our data center facilities, and special project services, including data center fitout. Our service revenue growth has been negatively impacted by declining activity rates as stored records are becoming less active. While customers continue to store their records and tapes with us, they are less likely than they have been in the past to retrieve records for research and other purposes, thereby reducing service activity levels.

BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES 

Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) consists primarily of labor, including wages and benefits for field personnel, facility occupancy costs (including rent and utilities), transportation expenses (including vehicle leases and fuel), other product cost of sales and other equipment costs and supplies. Of these, labor and facility occupancy costs are the most significant. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of wages and benefits for management, administrative, IT, sales, account management and marketing personnel, as well as expenses related to communications and data processing, travel, professional fees, bad debts, training, office equipment and supplies. 

Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) and Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 consists of the following: 

COST OF SALESSELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

30IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our depreciation and amortization charges result primarily from depreciation related to storage systems, which include racking structures, buildings, building and leasehold improvements and computer systems hardware and software. Amortization relates primarily to customer relationship intangible assets, contract fulfillment costs and data center lease-based intangible assets. Both depreciation and amortization are impacted by the timing of acquisitions. 

Our consolidated revenues and expenses are subject to the net effect of foreign currency translation related to our operations outside the United States. It is difficult to predict the future fluctuations of foreign currency exchange rates and how those fluctuations will impact our Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result of the relative size of our international operations, these fluctuations may be material on individual balances. Our revenues and expenses from our international operations are generally denominated in the local currency of the country in which they are derived or incurred. Therefore, the impact of currency fluctuations on our operating income and operating margin is partially mitigated. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percentage change in the results from one period to another period in this report using constant currency presentation. The constant currency growth rates are calculated by translating the 2020 results at the 2021 average exchange rates and the 2019 results at the 2020 average exchange rates. Constant currency growth rates are a non-GAAP measure.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K31
Part II

The following table is a comparison of underlying average exchange rates of the foreign currencies that had the most significant impact on our United States dollar-reported revenues and expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The percentage of United States dollar-reported revenues for all other foreign currencies was 14.6%, 13.8% and 12.7% for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

NON-GAAP MEASURES

ADJUSTED EBITDA

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as income (loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, net, provision (benefit) for income taxes, depreciation and amortization (inclusive of our share of Adjusted EBITDA from our unconsolidated joint ventures), and excluding certain items we do not believe to be indicative of our core operating results, specifically:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by total revenues. We also show Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin for each of our reportable operating segments under “Results of Operations – Segment Analysis” below.

32IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

Adjusted EBITDA excludes both interest expense, net and the provision (benefit) for income taxes. These expenses are associated with our capitalization and tax structures, which we do not consider when evaluating the operating profitability of our core operations. Adjusted EBITDA also does not include depreciation and amortization expenses, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments, which we evaluate by comparing capital expenditures to incremental revenue generated and as a percentage of total revenues. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), such as operating income, income (loss) from continuing operations, net income (loss) or cash flows from operating activities from continuing operations (as determined in accordance with GAAP). 

RECONCILIATION OF INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (IN THOUSANDS):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes foreign currency transaction losses (gains), net, debt extinguishment expense and other, net. See Note 2.u. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the components of Other (income) expense, net.

(2)Costs that are incremental and directly attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic which are not expected to recur once the pandemic ends (“COVID-19 Costs”). These costs include the purchase of personal protective equipment for our employees and incremental cleaning costs of our facilities, among other direct costs.

ADJUSTED EPS

Adjusted EPS is defined as reported earnings per share fully diluted from continuing operations (inclusive of our share of adjusted losses (gains) from our unconsolidated joint ventures) and excluding certain items, specifically:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We do not believe these excluded items to be indicative of our ongoing operating results, and they are not considered when we are forecasting our future results. We believe Adjusted EPS is of value to our current and potential investors when comparing our results from past, present and future periods.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K33
Part II

RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED EPS—FULLY DILUTED FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO ADJUSTED EPS—FULLY DILUTED FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)These costs include the purchase of personal protective equipment for our employees and incremental cleaning costs of our facilities, among other direct costs.

(2)The difference between our effective tax rate and our structural tax rate (or adjusted effective tax rate) for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 is primarily due to (i) the reconciling items above, which impact our reported income (loss) from continuing operations before provision (benefit) for income taxes but have an insignificant impact on our reported provision (benefit) for income taxes and (ii) other discrete tax items. Our structural tax rate for purposes of the calculation of Adjusted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 was 17.7%, 15.1%, and 17.6%, respectively.

(3)Columns may not foot due to rounding.

FFO (NAREIT) AND FFO (NORMALIZED)

Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“Nareit”) as net income (loss) excluding depreciation on real estate assets, gains on sale of real estate, net of tax, and amortization of data center leased-based intangibles. FFO (Nareit) does not give effect to real estate depreciation because these amounts are computed, under GAAP, to allocate the cost of a property over its useful life. Because values for well-maintained real estate assets have historically increased or decreased based upon prevailing market conditions, we believe that FFO (Nareit) provides investors with a clearer view of our operating performance. Our most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO (Nareit) is net income (loss).

Although Nareit has published a definition of FFO, we modify FFO (Nareit), as is common among REITs seeking to provide financial measures that most meaningfully reflect their particular business ("FFO (Normalized)"). Our definition of FFO (Normalized) excludes certain items included in FFO (Nareit) that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results, specifically:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO FFO (NAREIT) AND FFO (NORMALIZED) (IN THOUSANDS):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes depreciation expense related to owned real estate assets (land improvements, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking), excluding depreciation related to real estate financing leases.

(2)Tax expense associated with the gain on sale of real estate for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, was $25.4 million, $0.4 million, and $5.4 million, respectively.

(3)Includes amortization expense for Data Center In-Place Lease Intangible Assets and Data Center Tenant Relationship Intangible Assets as defined in Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.

(4)Includes foreign currency transaction (gains) losses, net, debt extinguishment expense and other, net. See Note 2.u. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the components of Other (income) expense, net.

(5)These costs include the purchase of personal protective equipment for our employees and incremental cleaning costs of our facilities, among other direct costs.

(6)Represents the tax impact of (i) the reconciling items above, which impacts our reported income (loss) from continuing operations before provision (benefit) for income taxes but has an insignificant impact on our reported provision (benefit) for income taxes and (ii) other discrete tax items. Discrete tax items resulted in a provision (benefit) for income taxes of $19.2 million, $(16.8) million and $(1.5) million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and for the period then ended. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the estimates used. We base our estimates on historical experience, actuarial estimates, current conditions and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following should be read in conjunction with Note 2 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, which provides a summary of our significant accounting policies. Our critical accounting estimates include the following, which are listed in no particular order: 

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K35
Part II

REVENUE RECOGNITION 

Revenue is recognized when or as control of promised goods or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. See Note 2.r. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our revenue recognition policies. Revenue for all our lines of business, with the exception of storage revenues in our Global Data Center Business (which is subject to leasing guidance), is recognized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”), the application of which requires that we make estimates and judgements that may affect the amount and timing of revenue we recognize. 

We have determined that the majority of our contracts contain series performance obligations which qualify to be recognized under a practical expedient available in ASC 606 known as the “right to invoice.” This determination allows variable consideration in such contracts to be allocated to and recognized in the period to which the consideration relates, which is typically the period in which it is billed, rather than requiring estimation of variable consideration at the inception of the contract. 

From time to time, we make payments to entities that are also customers under a revenue contract. These payments are comprised of Customer Inducements (as defined in Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report). Consideration payable to a customer is treated as a reduction of the transaction price over periods ranging from one to 10 years. If the payment to the customer does not represent payment for a distinct service, revenue is recognized only up to the amount of consideration remaining after customer payment obligations are considered. 

Contract Fulfillment Costs are amortized over a three year term, which we have determined is consistent with the transfer of the underlying performance obligations to which the assets relate. Different determinations on term length would result in differences in the amount and timing of amortization expense recognized.

ACCOUNTING FOR ACQUISITIONS

Part of our growth strategy has been to acquire businesses. The purchase price of each acquisition has been determined after due diligence of the target business, market research, strategic planning and the forecasting of expected future results and synergies. Estimated future results and expected synergies are subject to revisions as we integrate each acquisition and attempt to leverage resources. 

Accounting for acquisitions of a business has resulted in the capitalization of the cost in excess of the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in each of these acquisitions as goodwill. We estimate the fair values of the assets acquired in each acquisition as of the date of acquisition and these estimates are subject to adjustment based on the final assessments of the fair value of intangible assets (primarily customer relationship and data center lease-based intangible assets), property, plant and equipment (primarily building, building improvements, leasehold improvements, data center infrastructure and racking structures), operating leases, contingencies and income taxes (primarily deferred income taxes). See Note 3 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of recent acquisitions. 

Determining the fair values of the net assets acquired requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates and market data, among other items. As it relates to our data center acquisitions, the fair values of the net assets acquired requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of assumptions with respect to (i) certain economic costs (as described more fully in Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) avoided by acquiring a data center operation with active tenants that would have otherwise been incurred if the data center operation was purchased vacant, (ii) market rental rates and (iii) expectations of lease renewals and extensions. Due to the inherent uncertainty of future events, actual values of net assets acquired could be different from our estimated fair values and could have a material impact on our financial statements.

Of the net assets acquired in our acquisitions, the fair value of owned buildings, including building improvements, customer relationship and data center lease-based intangible assets, racking structures and operating leases are generally the most common and most significant. For significant acquisitions or acquisitions involving new markets or new products, we generally use third parties to assist us in estimating the fair value of owned buildings, including building improvements, customer relationship and lease-based intangible assets and market rental rates for acquired operating leases. For acquisitions that are not significant or do not involve new markets or new products, we generally use third parties to assist us in estimating the fair value of acquired owned buildings, including building improvements, and market rental rates for acquired operating leases. When not using third party appraisals of the fair value of acquired net assets, the fair value of acquired customer relationship intangible assets, above and below market in-place operating leases, and racking structures is determined internally. The fair value of acquired racking structures is determined internally by taking current estimated replacement cost at the date of acquisition for the quantity of racking structures acquired, discounted to take into account the quality (e.g. age, material and type) of the racking structures. We use discounted cash flow models to determine the fair value of customer relationship assets, which requires a significant amount of judgment by management, including estimating expected lives of the relationships, expected future cash flows and discount rates. We determine the fair value of tangible data center assets using an estimated replacement cost at the date of acquisition, then discounting for age, economic and functional obsolescence.

36IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at that time but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur, which may affect the accuracy of such assumptions. Total property, plant and equipment and intangible assets acquired in our 2021 acquisitions were approximately $150.1 million and $44.9 million, respectively.

IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

ASSETS SUBJECT TO DEPRECIATION OR AMORTIZATION 

We review long-lived assets and all finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include, but are not limited to:

•A significant decrease in the market price of an asset;

•A significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition;

•A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset;

•An accumulation of costs significantly greater than the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of an asset;

•A current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset; and

•A current expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.

If events indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable, recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the sum of the forecasted undiscounted net cash flows of the operation to which the assets relate to their carrying amount. The operations are generally distinguished by the business segment and geographic region in which they operate. If it is determined that we are unable to recover the carrying amount of the assets, the long-lived assets are written down, on a pro rata basis, to fair value. Fair value is determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, depending upon the nature of the assets.

We did not record impairment charges for any of our long-lived asset and finite-lived intangibles during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. During 2019, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $24.0 million on the assets associated with the select offerings within our Iron Mountain Iron Cloud portfolio as we explored strategic options regarding how to maintain and support the infrastructure of select offerings within this portfolio. 

GOODWILL AND OTHER INDEFINITE-LIVED INTANGIBLE ASSETS NOT SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Other than goodwill, we currently have no intangible assets that have indefinite lives and which are not amortized. See Note 2.k. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets policies. 

We have selected October 1 as our annual goodwill impairment review date. We have performed our annual goodwill impairment review as of October 1, 2021, 2020 and 2019. We concluded that as of October 1, 2021, 2020 and 2019, goodwill was not impaired. 

Our reporting units at which level we performed our goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2021 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 2.k. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of our reporting units.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K37
Part II

Based on our goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2021, all of our reporting units had estimated fair values exceeding their carrying values by greater than 20%. Our Global Data Center reporting unit had an estimated fair value that exceeded its carrying value by approximately 23%. The reporting unit represented approximately $426.1 million, or 9.5%, of our consolidated goodwill balance at December 31, 2021. The following is a summary of the Global Data Center reporting unit including the goodwill balance (in thousands), percentage by which the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, and certain key assumptions used by us in determining the fair value of the reporting unit as of October 1, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For purposes of our goodwill impairment analysis, the term “capital expenditures” includes both growth investment and recurring capital expenditures. The capital expenditure assumptions in our goodwill impairment analysis include significant growth investment in the next three years. 

(2)Terminal growth rates are applied in year 10 of our discounted cash flow analysis.

Reporting unit valuations have generally been determined using a combined approach based on the present value of future cash flows (the “Discounted Cash Flow Model”) and market multiples (the “Market Approach"). There are inherent uncertainties and judgments involved when determining the fair value of the reporting units for purposes of our annual goodwill impairment testing. The following includes supplemental information to the table above for the Data Center reporting unit where the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 23% as of October 1, 2021. The success of this business and the achievement of certain key assumptions developed by management and used in the Discounted Cash Flow Model are contingent upon various factors including, but not limited to, (i) achieving growth from existing customers, (ii) sales to new customers, (iii) increased market penetration and (iv) accurately timing the capital investments related to expansions.

Our Global Data Center Business footprint spans nine markets in the United States: Denver, Colorado; Kansas City, Missouri; Boston, Massachusetts; Boyers, Pennsylvania; Manassas, Virginia; Edison, New Jersey; Columbus, Ohio; and Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona and seven international markets: Amsterdam, London, Singapore, Frankfurt (directly and through an unconsolidated joint venture) and through unconsolidated joint ventures in Mumbai, Pune and Noida. We provide enterprise-class data center facilities and hyperscale-ready capacity to protect mission-critical assets and ensure the continued operation of our customers’ IT infrastructure with secure, reliable and flexible data center options. Data centers are highly specialized and secure assets that serve as centralized repositories of server, storage and network equipment. They are capital intensive and designed to provide the space, power, cooling and network connectivity necessary to efficiently operate mission-critical IT equipment. The demand for data center infrastructure is being driven by many factors, but most importantly by significant growth in data as well as an increased demand for outsourcing. In order to attract and retain customers, as well as sustain growth in our existing and new markets, we must have the capability to tailor our facilities and invest capital to meet our customers’ needs. Our estimate of fair value reflects the expected growth in each of our data center markets along with the corresponding capital investments required to meet demand. The business is primarily comprised of acquisitions completed in 2018 and late 2017; therefore, we would expect that the fair value of this reporting unit would closely approximate its carrying value.

Key factors that could reasonably be expected to have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and potentially result in impairment charges include, but are not limited to: (i) a deterioration in general economic conditions, (ii) significant adverse changes in regulatory factors or in the business climate, and (iii) adverse actions or assessment by regulators, all of which could result in adverse changes to the key assumptions used in valuing the reporting units. The inability to meet the assumptions used in the Discounted Cash Flow Model and Market Approach for each of the reporting units, or future adverse market conditions not currently known, could lead to a fair value that is less than the carrying value in any one of our reporting units. 

Reporting unit valuations have generally been determined using a combined approach based on the Discounted Cash Flow Model and Market Approach. The Discounted Cash Flow Model incorporates significant assumptions including future revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and capital expenditures. The Market Approach requires us to make assumptions related to Adjusted EBITDA multiples. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions or changes in multiples could result in goodwill impairments in future periods. In conjunction with our annual goodwill impairment reviews, we reconcile the sum of the valuations of all of our reporting units to our market capitalization as of such dates.

38IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

Although we believe we have sufficient historical and projected information available to us to test for goodwill impairment, it is possible that actual results could differ from the estimates used in our impairment tests. Of the key assumptions that impact the goodwill impairment test, the expected future cash flows and discount rate are among the most sensitive and are considered to be critical assumptions, as changes to these estimates could have an effect on the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units. We have assessed the sensitivity of these assumptions on each of our reporting units as of October 1, 2021. 

North America RIM, Europe

RIM, Latin America RIM, ANZ

RIM, Asia RIM, Fine Arts and Entertainment Services

We noted that, based on the estimated fair value of these reporting units determined as of October 1, 2021:

•a hypothetical decrease of 10% in the expected annual future cash flows of these reporting units, with all other assumptions unchanged, would have decreased the estimated fair value of these reporting units as of October 1, 2021 by a range of approximately 9.7% to 10.6% but would not, however, have resulted in the carrying value of any of these reporting units with goodwill exceeding their estimated fair value;

•a hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the discount rate, with all other assumptions unchanged, would have decreased the estimated fair value of these reporting units as of October 1, 2021 by a range of approximately 4.2% to 9.9% but would not, however, have resulted in the carrying value of any of these reporting units with goodwill exceeding their estimated fair value.

Global Data Center

We noted that, as of October 1, 2021, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit:

•exceeds its carrying value by approximately 23%.

Accordingly, any significant negative change in either the expected annual future cash flows of the reporting unit or the discount rate may result in the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeding its estimated fair value.

At December 31, 2021, no factors were identified that would alter the conclusions of our October 1, 2021 goodwill impairment analysis. In making this assessment, we considered a number of factors including operating results, business plans, anticipated future cash flows, transactions and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment.

INCOME TAXES

As a REIT, we are generally permitted to deduct from our federal taxable income the dividends we pay to our stockholders. The income represented by such dividends is not subject to federal taxation at the entity level but is taxed, if at all, at the stockholder level. The income of our domestic TRSs, which hold our domestic operations that may not be REIT-compliant as currently operated and structured, is subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income tax. In addition, we and our subsidiaries continue to be subject to foreign income taxes in other jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence, regardless of whether assets are held or operations are conducted through subsidiaries disregarded for federal income tax purposes or TRSs. We will also be subject to a separate corporate income tax on any gains recognized on the sale or disposition of any asset previously owned by a C corporation during a five-year period after the date we first owned the asset as a REIT asset that are attributable to "built-in gains" with respect to that asset on that date. We will also be subject to a built-in gains tax on our depreciation recapture recognized into income as a result of accounting method changes in connection with our acquisition activities. If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate income tax rates. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property in addition to taxes owed with respect to our TRS operations. In particular, while state income tax regimes often parallel the federal income tax regime for REITs, many states do not completely follow federal rules and some do not follow them at all. See Note 10 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our tax policies.

Accounting for income taxes requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial reporting bases of assets and liabilities and for loss and credit carryforwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be applied to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that the change is enacted. Valuation allowances are provided when recovery of deferred tax assets does not meet the more likely than not standard as defined in GAAP. Valuation allowances would be reversed as a reduction to the provision for income taxes if related deferred tax assets are deemed realizable based on changes in facts and circumstances relevant to the recoverability of the asset.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K39
Part II

At December 31, 2021, we have federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of which we are expecting an insignificant tax benefit to be realized. We have assets for foreign net operating losses of $85.5 million, with various expiration dates (and in some cases no expiration date), subject to a valuation allowance of approximately 47%. If actual results differ unfavorably from certain of our estimates used, we may not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred income tax assets and additional valuation allowances may be required. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that our estimates reflected in the tax provisions and accruals will equal our actual results. These differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.

The evaluation of an uncertain tax position is a two-step process. The first step is a recognition process whereby we determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The second step is a measurement process whereby a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is calculated to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by various tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments by tax authorities and provide for these matters as appropriate. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had approximately $27.8 million and $26.0 million, respectively, of reserves related to uncertain tax positions. The reversal of these reserves will be recorded as a reduction of our income tax provision if sustained. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could result in changes in our estimates.

Following our conversion to a REIT in 2014, we concluded that it was not our intent to reinvest our current and future undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely outside the United States. As of December 31, 2016, we concluded that it is our intent to indefinitely reinvest our current and future undistributed earnings of certain of our unconverted foreign TRSs outside the United States. During 2021, as a result of the enactment of a tax law and the closing of various acquisitions, we reassessed this intention and concluded that it is no longer our intention to reinvest our undistributed earnings of our foreign TRSs indefinitely outside the United States. As a REIT, future repatriation of incremental undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries will not be subject to federal or state income tax, with the exception of foreign withholding taxes. However, such future repatriations may require distributions to our stockholders in accordance with REIT distribution rules, and any such distribution may then be taxable, as appropriate, at the stockholder level. We expect to provide for foreign withholding taxes on the current and future earnings of all of our foreign subsidiaries as the result of such reassessment.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following information summarizes our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. For a discussion of our results for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the SEC on February 24, 2021.

COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021 TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2020 AND COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2020 TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 

(IN THOUSANDS):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)See “Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA” in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K40
Part II

REVENUES

Consolidated revenues consist of the following (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Constant currency growth rates are calculated by translating the 2020 results at the 2021 average exchange rates and the 2019 results at the 2020 average exchange rates.

(2)Our organic revenue growth rate, which is a non-GAAP measure, represents the year-over-year growth rate of our revenues excluding the impact of business acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, but including the impact of acquisitions of customer relationships.

TOTAL REVENUES

For the year ended December 31, 2021, the increase in reported consolidated revenue was driven by reported storage rental revenue growth and reported service revenue growth. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations increased our reported consolidated revenues by 1.5% in the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period.

STORAGE RENTAL REVENUES AND SERVICE REVENUES

Primary factors influencing the change in reported storage rental revenue and reported service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 include the following: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

OPERATING EXPENSES

COST OF SALES

Consolidated Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) consists of the following expenses (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Primary factors influencing the change in reported consolidated Cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 include the following: 

•an increase in labor costs driven by an increase in service activity, particularly in regions where governments have lifted or eased COVID-19 related restrictions on our customers' non-essential business operations, partially offset by benefits from Project Summit;

•an increase in facilities expenses driven by increases in rent expense, reflecting the impact from our sale-leaseback activity during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021 (which we expect to continue in 2022 as we continue to look for future opportunities to monetize a small portion of our owned industrial real estate assets as part of our ongoing capital recycling program), as well as increases in utilities and property taxes; 

•an increase in product cost of sales and other driven by an increase in project activity; and

•an increase of $25.8 million due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K42
Part II

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Consolidated Selling, general and administrative expenses consists of the following expenses (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Primary factors influencing the change in reported consolidated Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 include the following: 

•an increase in general, administrative and other expenses, driven by higher wages and benefits, stock-based compensation expense and bonus compensation accruals, partially offset by benefits from Project Summit, as well as lower professional fees and bad debt expense;

•an increase in sales, marketing and account management expenses, driven by higher compensation expense, primarily reflecting increased wages and sales commissions, as well as increased marketing costs; and

•an increase of $10.1 million due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

Our depreciation and amortization charges result primarily from depreciation related to storage systems, which include racking structures, buildings, building and leasehold improvements and computer systems hardware and software. Amortization relates primarily to customer relationship intangible assets, contract fulfillment costs and data center lease-based intangible assets. Both depreciation and amortization are impacted by the timing of acquisitions.

Depreciation expense increased $17.5 million, or 3.9%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. See Note 2.h. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the useful lives over which our property, plant and equipment is depreciated. 

Amortization expense increased $10.8 million, or 5.3%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. 

ACQUISITION AND INTEGRATION COSTS

Acquisition and integration costs represent operating expenditures directly associated with the closing and integration activities of our business acquisitions that have closed, or are highly probable of closing, and include (i) advisory, legal and professional fees to complete business acquisitions and (ii) costs to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations, including move, severance, facility upgrade and system integration costs (collectively, "Acquisition and Integration Costs"). Acquisition and Integration Costs do not include costs associated with the formation of joint ventures or costs associated with the acquisition of customer relationships. Acquisition and Integration Costs for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 was approximately $12.8 million, $0.0 million and $13.3 million, respectively. 

43IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

Restructuring Charges for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 were approximately $206.4 million, $194.4 million and $48.6 million, respectively, and primarily consisted of employee severance costs and professional fees associated with Project Summit.

INTANGIBLE IMPAIRMENTS

The intangible impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $23.0 million and related to the write-down of goodwill associated with our Fine Arts reporting unit in the first quarter of 2020.

GAIN ON DISPOSAL/WRITE-DOWN OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND

EQUIPMENT, NET

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

OTHER EXPENSES, NET

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET

Consolidated Interest Expense, Net decreased $0.5 million, to $418.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $418.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our weighted average interest rate, inclusive of the commitment fee on the unused portion of our Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below) and fees associated with the letters of credit, was 4.7% and 4.6% at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our indebtedness.

OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET 

Consolidated other (income) expense, net consists of the following (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTION (GAINS) LOSSES, NET 

We recorded net foreign currency transaction gains of $15.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2021, based on period-end exchange rates. These gains resulted primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of the Euro and the British pound sterling against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2020 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K44
Part II

DEBT EXTINGUISHMENT EXPENSE

Debt extinguishment expense represents the call premiums and write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the early redemption of the 6% Senior Notes due 2023, the 43/8% Senior Notes due 2021, the 53/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024, the 53/8% CAD Senior Notes due 2023, the 3% Euro Senior Notes due 2025 and the 53/8% Senior Notes due 2026.

OTHER, NET

Other, net for the year ended December 31, 2021 consists primarily of (a) a gain of approximately $179.0 million associated with our IPM Divestment and (b) a gain of approximately $20.3 million associated with the loss of control and related deconsolidation, as of May 18, 2021, of one of our wholly owned Netherlands subsidiaries, for which we had value-added tax liability exposure that was recorded in 2019, partially offset by (c) losses on our equity method investments. Other, net for the year ended December 31, 2020 consists primarily of (a) changes in the estimated value of our mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests and (b) losses on our equity method investments.

PROVISION (BENEFIT) FOR INCOME TAXES

Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were 28.0% and 7.9%, respectively. Our effective tax rate is subject to variability in the future due to, among other items: (1) changes in the mix of income between our QRSs and our TRSs, as well as among the jurisdictions in which we operate; (2) tax law changes; (3) volatility in foreign exchange gains and losses; (4) the timing of the establishment and reversal of tax reserves; and (5) our ability to utilize net operating losses that we generate.

The primary reconciling items between the federal statutory tax rate of 21.0% and our overall effective tax rate were:

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,

20212020

The benefit derived from the dividends paid deduction of $8.2 million which was offset by (1) the impact of differences in the tax rates at which our foreign earnings are subject to, resulting in a tax provision of $9.9 million, and (2) foreign withholding taxes of $23.7 million, which were either paid during the year or accrued, for the deferred tax liability for the U.S. tax impact of undistributed earnings of foreign TRSs that are no longer intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. The benefit derived from the dividends paid deduction of $60.4 million and the impact of differences in the tax rates at which our foreign earnings are subject to, resulting in a tax provision of $9.5 million.

As a REIT, we are entitled to a deduction for dividends paid, resulting in a substantial reduction of federal income tax expense. As a REIT, substantially all of our income tax expense will be incurred based on the earnings generated by our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic TRSs.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by various tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments by tax authorities and provide for these matters as appropriate. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could result in changes in our estimates.

45IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS AND ADJUSTED EBITDA

The following table reflects the effect of the foregoing factors on our consolidated income (loss) from continuing operations and Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA Margin for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 80 basis points compared to the prior year, reflecting improved service revenue trends, benefits from Project Summit, revenue management and ongoing cost containment measures, partially offset by higher compensation expense and sales commissions.

↑ INCREASED BY $159.0 MILLION 

OR 10.8%

Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K46
Part II

SEGMENT ANALYSIS 

See the discussion of Business Segments under Item I and Note 11 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both included in this Annual Report, for a description of our reportable operating segments.

GLOBAL RIM BUSINESS (IN THOUSANDS)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3-YEAR SEGMENT ANALYSIS: GLOBAL RIM BUSINESS (IN MILLIONS) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in our Global RIM Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 include the following:

•organic storage rental revenue growth driven by revenue management and volume;

•a 2.3% increase in global records management volume (excluding acquisitions, global records management volume increased 0.2%);

•organic service revenue growth mainly driven by increased traditional service activity levels, particularly in regions where governments have lifted or eased COVID-19 related restrictions on our customers' non-essential business operations, and growth in our Global Digital Solutions and Secure IT Asset Disposition businesses;

•an increase in revenue of $54.6 million due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and

•a 100 basis point increase in Adjusted EBITDA Margin primarily driven by benefits from Project Summit, revenue management, ongoing cost containment measures and lower bad debt expense, partially offset by increases in compensation, benefits, sales commissions and rent expense.

47IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

GLOBAL DATA CENTER BUSINESS (IN THOUSANDS)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3-YEAR SEGMENT ANALYSIS: GLOBAL DATA CENTER BUSINESS (IN MILLIONS)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in our Global Data Center Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 include the following:

•organic storage rental revenue growth from leases signed during 2021 and in prior periods, and service revenue growth from project revenue, partially offset by churn of 890 basis points;

•an increase in Adjusted EBITDA primarily driven by organic storage rental revenue growth; and

•a 330 basis point decrease in Adjusted EBITDA Margin reflecting a change in revenue mix due to lower margin project revenue during the period, which is expected to have a temporary impact on segment margins.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K48
Part II

CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS (IN THOUSANDS)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA in our Corporate and Other Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 include the following:

•organic service revenue growth mainly driven by increased service activity levels in our Fine Arts business, particularly in regions where governments have lifted or eased COVID-19 related restrictions on our customers' non-essential business operations; and

•a decrease in Adjusted EBITDA driven by higher wages, benefits and bonus compensation accruals, partially offset by benefits from Project Summit, decreased professional fees, ongoing cost containment measures and improved service revenue trends.

49IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

GENERAL

We expect to meet our short-term and long-term cash flow requirements through cash generated from operations, cash on hand, borrowings under our Credit Agreement (as defined below) and proceeds from monetizing a small portion of our total industrial real estate assets, as well as other potential financings (such as the issuance of debt or equity). Our cash flow requirements, both in the near and long term, include, but are not limited to, capital expenditures, the repayment of outstanding debt, shareholder dividends, potential and pending business acquisitions and normal business operation needs. 

PROJECT SUMMIT

As disclosed above, in October 2019, we announced Project Summit. From the inception of Project Summit through December 31, 2021, we have incurred approximately $450.0 million of Restructuring Charges related to Project Summit, primarily related to employee severance costs, internal costs associated with the development and implementation of Project Summit initiatives and professional fees. From the inception of Project Summit through December 31, 2021, we have also incurred approximately $33.8 million of capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2021, we have completed Project Summit. 

CASH FLOWS

The following is a summary of our cash balances and cash flows (in thousands) as of and for the years ended December 31,

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A. CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash flows provided by operating activities decreased by $228.8 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decrease in cash from working capital of $266.0 million, primarily related to the collections of accounts receivable and timing of accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by an increase in net income (including non-cash charges) of $37.2 million.

B. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Our significant investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2021 are highlighted below:

•We paid cash for capital expenditures of $611.1 million. Additional details of our capital spending are included in the “Capital Expenditures” section below.

•We paid cash for acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $204.0 million, primarily funded by borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. 

•We received $278.3 million in proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment, primarily related to proceeds from sale and sale-leaseback transactions of 14 facilities in the United Kingdom and the United States during the second and fourth quarters of 2021.

•We received $213.9 million in net proceeds from the IPM Divestment.

C. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Our significant financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 included:

•Net proceeds of $737.8 million associated with the issuance of the 5% Notes due 2032 (as defined below).

•Net payments of $192.3 million primarily associated with repayment of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program.

•Purchase of noncontrolling interest of $75.0 million.

•Payment of dividends in the amount of $718.3 million on our common stock.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K50
Part II

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

We present two categories of capital expenditures: (1) Growth Investment Capital Expenditures and (2) Recurring Capital Expenditures with the following sub-categories: (i) Data Center; (ii) Real Estate; (iii) Innovation and Other (for Growth Investment Capital Expenditures only); and (iv) Non-Real Estate (for Recurring Capital Expenditures only). 

GROWTH INVESTMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES:

•Data Center: Expenditures primarily related to investments in new construction of data center facilities (including the acquisition of land and development of facilities) or capacity expansion in existing buildings.

•Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to investments in land, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures to grow our revenues or achieve operational efficiencies.

•Innovation and Other: Discretionary capital expenditures for significant new products and services, restructuring (including Project Summit), and integration of acquisitions.

RECURRING CAPITAL EXPENDITURES:

•Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to the replacement of components of real estate assets such as buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures.

•Non-Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to the replacement of containers and shred bins, warehouse equipment, fixtures, computer hardware, or third-party or internally-developed software assets that support the maintenance of existing revenues or avoidance of an increase in costs. 

•Data Center: Expenditures related to the upgrade or re-configuration of existing data center assets.

The following table presents our capital spend for 2021, 2020 and 2019 organized by the type of the spending as described above.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Excluding capital expenditures associated with potential future acquisitions, we expect total capital expenditures of approximately $850.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2022. Of this, we expect our capital expenditures for growth investment to be approximately $700.0 million, and our recurring capital expenditures to approach $155.0 million. Approximately three-quarters of our expected capital expenditures for growth investment relates to Global Data Center Business development spend.

DIVIDENDS

See Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on dividends.

51IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND DEBT

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents (including money market funds) and accounts receivable. The only significant concentration of liquid investments as of December 31, 2021 is related to cash and cash equivalents. See Note 2.f. to Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on our money market funds.

Long-term debt as of December 31, 2021 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our long-term debt. 

CREDIT AGREEMENT

Our credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") consists of a revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) and a term loan (the “Term Loan A”). The Revolving Credit Facility enables IMI and certain of its United States and foreign subsidiaries to borrow in United States dollars and (subject to sublimits) a variety of other currencies (including Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros, among other currencies) in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed $1,750.0 million. Under the Credit Agreement, we have the option to request additional commitments of up to $1,260.0 million, in the form of term loans or through increased commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility, subject to the conditions specified in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is scheduled to mature on June 3, 2023, at which point all obligations become due. The original principal amount of the Term Loan A was $250.0 million and is to be paid in quarterly installments in an amount equal to $3.1 million per quarter, with the remaining balance due on June 3, 2023. 

IMI and the Guarantors guarantee all obligations under the Credit Agreement. The interest rate on borrowings under the Credit Agreement varies depending on our choice of interest rate and currency options, plus an applicable margin, which varies based on our consolidated leverage ratio. Additionally, the Credit Agreement requires the payment of a commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility, which fee ranges from between 0.25% to 0.4% based on our consolidated leverage ratio and fees associated with outstanding letters of credit. As of December 31, 2021, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and $203.1 million aggregate outstanding principal amount under the Term Loan A. At December 31, 2021, we had various outstanding letters of credit totaling $3,039 under the Revolving Credit Facility. The amount available for borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2021, which is based on IMI’s leverage ratio, the last 12 months' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and rent expense (“EBITDAR”), other adjustments as defined in the Credit Agreement and current external debt, was $1,747.0 million (which amount represents the maximum availability as of such date). Available borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are subject to compliance with our indenture covenants as discussed below. The average interest rate in effect under the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan A was 1.9% as of December 31, 2021.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K52
Part II

IMI’s wholly owned subsidiary, Iron Mountain Information Management, LLC (“IMIM”), has an incremental term loan B with a principal amount of $700.0 million (the “Term Loan B”). The Term Loan B, which matures on January 2, 2026, was issued at 99.75% of par. The Term Loan B holders benefit from the same security and guarantees as other borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Term Loan B holders also benefit from the same affirmative and negative covenants as other borrowings under the Credit Agreement; however, the Term Loan B holders are not generally entitled to the benefits of the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.

Principal payments on the Term Loan B are to be paid in quarterly installments of $1.8 million per quarter during the period June 30, 2018 through December 31, 2025, with the balance due on January 2, 2026. The Term Loan B may be prepaid without penalty at any time. The Term Loan B bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.75%. As of December 31, 2021, we had $673.8 million aggregate outstanding principal amount under the Term Loan B. The interest rate in effect under Term Loan B as of December 31, 2021 was 3.1%.

DECEMBER 2021 OFFERING

On December 28, 2021, Iron Mountain Information Management Services, Inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, completed a private offering of $750.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 5% Notes due 2032. The 5% Notes due 2032 were issued at 100.000% of par. The total net proceeds of approximately $738.0 million from the issuance of the 5% Notes due 2032, after deducting the initial purchasers’ commissions, were used to finance the purchase price of the ITRenew Transaction, which closed on January 25, 2022, and to pay related fees and expenses. At December 31, 2021, the net proceeds from the 5% Notes due 2032, were used to temporarily repay borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and Accounts Receivable Securitization Program and invest in money market funds. The 5% Notes due 2032 are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior basis, by IMI and the other Guarantors. 

UK BILATERAL REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY

Iron Mountain (UK) PLC and Iron Mountain (UK) Data Centre Limited (collectively, the "UK Borrowers") have a 140.0 million British pounds sterling Revolving Credit Facility (the “UK Bilateral Facility”) with Barclays Bank PLC. The maximum amount permitted to be borrowed under the UK Bilateral Facility is 140.0 million British pounds sterling, and we have the option to request additional commitments of up to 125.0 million British pounds sterling, subject to the conditions specified in the UK Bilateral Facility. The UK Bilateral Facility is fully drawn. The UK Bilateral Facility is secured by certain properties in the United Kingdom. IMI and the Guarantors guarantee all obligations under the UK Bilateral Facility. The UK Bilateral Facility was originally scheduled to mature on September 23, 2022, at which point all obligations were to become due. 

On May 25, 2021, the UK Borrowers entered into an amendment to the UK Bilateral Facility with Barclays Bank PLC to (i) modify the interest rate from LIBOR plus 2.25% to LIBOR plus 2.0% (with flexibility built in for the expected transition away from LIBOR) and (ii) add an additional option to extend the maturity date by one year. After this amendment, the UK Bilateral Facility contains two one-year options that allow us to extend the maturity date beyond the September 23, 2022 expiration date, subject to certain conditions specified in the UK Bilateral Facility, including the lender's consent. On September 23, 2021, the UK Borrowers executed the one-year option to extend the maturity date to September 24, 2023.The interest rate in effect under the UK Bilateral Facility was 2.1% as of December 31, 2021. 

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE SECURITIZATION PROGRAM

We participate in an accounts receivable securitization program (the “Accounts Receivable Securitization Program”) involving several of our wholly owned subsidiaries and certain financial institutions. Under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program, certain of our subsidiaries sell substantially all of their United States accounts receivable balances to our wholly owned special purpose entities, Iron Mountain Receivables QRS, LLC and Iron Mountain Receivables TRS, LLC (the “Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries”). The Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries use the accounts receivable balances to collateralize loans obtained from certain financial institutions. The Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries are consolidated subsidiaries of IMI. IMIM retains the responsibility of servicing the accounts receivable balances pledged as collateral for the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program and IMI provides a performance guaranty. The maximum availability allowed is limited by eligible accounts receivable, as defined under the terms of the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. 

On June 28, 2021, we entered into an amendment to the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program to extend the maturity date from July 30, 2021 to July 1, 2023, at which point all obligations become due. The interest rate under the amended Accounts Receivable Securitization Program is LIBOR plus 1.0%. As of December 31, 2021, the maximum amount available under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program was $300.0 million. There were no amounts outstanding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program as of December 31, 2021. Commitment fees at a rate of 40 basis points are charged on amounts made available but not borrowed under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. 

53IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

LETTERS OF CREDIT

As of December 31, 2021, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $36,480, of which $3,039 reduce our borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility (as described above). The letters of credit expire at various dates between January 2022 and March 2025.

DEBT COVENANTS

The Credit Agreement (as defined in Note 7 to Notes of Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report), our bond indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness contain certain restrictive financial and operating covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to complete acquisitions, pay cash dividends, incur indebtedness, make investments, sell assets and take other specified corporate actions. The covenants do not contain a rating trigger. Therefore, a change in our debt rating would not trigger a default under the Credit Agreement, our bond indentures or other agreements governing our indebtedness. The Credit Agreement requires that we satisfy a fixed charge coverage ratio, a net total lease adjusted leverage ratio and a net secured debt lease adjusted leverage ratio on a quarterly basis and our bond indentures require that, among other things, we satisfy a leverage ratio (not lease adjusted) or a fixed charge coverage ratio (not lease adjusted), as a condition to taking actions such as paying dividends and incurring indebtedness.

The Credit Agreement uses EBITDAR-based calculations and the bond indentures use EBITDA-based calculations as the primary measures of financial performance for purposes of calculating leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The bond indenture EBITDA-based calculations include our consolidated subsidiaries, other than those we have designated as “Unrestricted Subsidiaries” as defined in the bond indentures. Generally, the Credit Agreement and the bond indentures use a trailing four fiscal quarter basis for purposes of the relevant calculations and require certain adjustments and exclusions for purposes of those calculations, which make the calculation of financial performance for purposes of those calculations under the Credit Agreement and bond indentures not directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA as presented herein. These adjustments can be significant. For example, the calculation of financial performance under the Credit Agreement and certain of our bond indentures includes (subject to specified exceptions and caps) adjustments for non-cash charges and for expected benefits associated with (i) completed acquisitions, (ii) certain executed lease agreements associated with our data center business that have yet to commence, and (iii) restructuring and other strategic initiatives, such as Project Summit. The calculation of financial performance under our other bond indentures includes, for example, adjustments for non-cash charges and for expected benefits associated with (i) completed acquisitions, and (ii) events that are extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring, such as the COVID-19 pandemic.

Our leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2021 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We are in compliance with our leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios under the Credit Agreement, our bond indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness as of December 31, 2021. Noncompliance with these leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.

___________________________________________________________________________________________________

Our ability to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, working capital levels and capital structure, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors which may be beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future financings will be available on acceptable terms or in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to make necessary capital expenditures.

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS

INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS

In March 2018, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on a portion of our floating rate indebtedness. As of December 31, 2021, we had $350.0 million in notional value of interest rate swap agreements outstanding, which expire in March 2022. Under the interest rate swap agreements, we receive variable rate interest payments associated with the notional amount of each interest rate swap, based upon one-month LIBOR, in exchange for the payment of fixed interest rates as specified in the interest rate swap agreements. 

In July 2019, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on a portion of our floating rate indebtedness once our current interest rate swap agreements expire in March 2022. The forward-starting interest rate swap agreements have $350.0 million in notional value, commence in March 2022 and expire in March 2024. Under the swap agreements, we will receive variable rate interest payments based upon one-month LIBOR, in exchange for the payment of fixed interest rates as specified in the interest rate swap agreements. 

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K54
Part II

We have designated these interest rate swap agreements, including the forward-starting interest rate swap agreements, as cash flow hedges. 

CROSS-CURRENCY SWAP AGREEMENTS

We enter into cross-currency swap agreements to hedge the variability of exchange rate impacts between the United States dollar and the Euro. The cross-currency swap agreements are designated as a hedge of net investment against certain of our Euro denominated subsidiaries and require an exchange of the notional amounts at maturity.

In August 2019, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements whereby we notionally exchanged approximately $110.0 million at an interest rate of 6.0% for approximately 99.1 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.65%. These cross-currency swap agreements expire in August 2023.

In September 2020, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements whereby we notionally exchanged approximately $359.2 million at an interest rate of 4.5% for approximately 300.0 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.4%. These cross-currency swap agreements expire in February 2026.

See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our derivative instruments. 

EQUITY FINANCING

In 2017, we entered into a Distribution Agreement with the Agents pursuant to which we could sell, from time to time, up to an aggregate sales price of $500.0 million of our common stock through the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program. On February 15, 2022, the Distribution Agreement was terminated. 

During the quarter and year ended December 31, 2021, there were no shares of common stock sold under the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program. 

ACQUISITIONS 

See Note 3 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding our 2021 acquisitions.

INFOFORT ACQUISITION

On September 15, 2021, in order to further expand our records management operations in the Middle East and North Africa, we acquired Information Fort, LLC, a records and information management provider, for approximately $90.3 million.

FRANKFURT DATA CENTER ACQUISITION

On September 23, 2021, in order to further enhance our data center operations in Germany, we completed the acquisition of assets of a Frankfurt data center for approximately 77.9 million Euros (or approximately $91.3 million, based upon the exchange rate between the Euro and the United States dollar on the closing date of this acquisition).

OTHER 2021 ACQUISITIONS

In addition to the transactions noted above, during the year ended December 31, 2021, in order to enhance our existing operations in the United Kingdom and Indonesia and to expand our operations into Morocco, we completed the acquisition of two records management companies and one art storage company for total cash consideration of approximately $45.1 million. 

2022 ACQUISITION OF ITRENEW 

On January 25, 2022, we acquired an approximately 80% interest in Intercept Parent, Inc. ("ITRenew"), a company with asset lifecycle management operations primarily in the United States, for approximately $725.0 million (the “ITRenew Transaction”). The acquisition agreement also provides us the option to purchase, and the shareholders the option to sell, the remaining approximately 20% interest in ITRenew as follows: (i) approximately 16% on or after the second anniversary of the ITRenew Transaction and (ii) approximately 4% on or after the third anniversary of the ITRenew Transaction (collectively, the “Remaining Interest”), each at a purchase price to be determined based upon the achievement of certain performance metrics, but for no less than $200.0 million in total. 

55IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K
Part II

INVESTMENTS

See Note 5 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding our joint ventures.

2021 NEWLY FORMED JOINT VENTURE

In April 2021, we closed on an agreement to form a joint venture (the "Web Werks JV") with the shareholders of Web Werks India Private Limited ("Web Werks"), a colocation data center provider in India. In connection with the formation of the Web Werks JV, we made an initial investment of approximately 3,750.0 million Indian rupees (or approximately $50.1 million, based upon the exchange rate between the United States dollar and Indian rupee as of the closing date of the initial investment) in exchange for a noncontrolling interest in the form of convertible preference shares in the Web Werks JV (the “Initial Web Werks JV Investment”). These shares are convertible into a to-be-determined amount of common shares based upon the achievement of EBITDA targets for the Web Werks JV's fiscal year ending March 31, 2022.

Under the terms of the Web Werks JV shareholder agreement, we are required to make additional investments over a period ending May 2023 totaling approximately 7,500.0 million Indian rupees (or approximately $100.0 million, based upon the exchange rate as of December 31, 2021 between the United States dollar and Indian rupee).

JOINT VENTURE SUMMARY

The following joint ventures are accounted for as equity method investments and are presented as a component of Other within Other assets, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The carrying values and equity interests in our joint ventures at December 31, 2021 are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) In 2021, we made quarterly capital contributions to this joint venture which totaled approximately $26.0 million. 

(2) In February 2022, the MakeSpace JV entered into an agreement with Clutter, Inc. (“Clutter”) pursuant to which we and MakeSpace contributed our ownership interest in the MakeSpace JV and Clutter’s shareholders contributed their ownership interests in Clutter to create a newly formed venture (the “Clutter JV”). In exchange for our 49.99% interest in the MakeSpace JV, we received an approximate 27% interest in the Clutter JV.

NET OPERATING LOSSES

At December 31, 2021, we have federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of which we are expecting an insignificant tax benefit to be realized. We have assets for foreign net operating losses of $85.5 million, with various expiration dates (and in some cases no expiration date), subject to a valuation allowance of approximately 47%.

IRON MOUNTAIN 2021 FORM 10-K56
Part II

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.