Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

Interest Rate Exposure - Non-Recourse Notes Payable

As of February 28, 2022 and February 28, 2021, all loans in our portfolio of managed receivables were fixed-rate installment contracts. Financing for these receivables was achieved primarily through non-recourse funding vehicles that, in turn, issued both fixed- and variable-rate notes. Non-recourse funding vehicles include warehouse facilities and asset-backed term funding transactions. 

Borrowings under our warehouse facilities are variable-rate debt and are secured by auto loans receivable. The receivables are funded through the warehouse facilities until we elect to fund them through an asset-backed term funding transaction, which issue notes payable that accrue interest predominantly at fixed rates. 

Interest rate risk related to variable-rate debt is primarily mitigated by entering into derivative instruments. Our derivative instruments are used to manage differences in the amount of our known or expected cash receipts and our known or expected cash payments principally related to the funding of our auto loans receivable. Disruptions in the credit markets or unexpected changes in prepayment activity could impact the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Generally, changes in interest rates associated with underlying swaps will not have a material impact on earnings; however, they could have a material impact on cash and cash flows.

Absent any additional actions by the company to further mitigate risk, a 100-basis point increase in market interest rates associated with non-recourse funding vehicles would have decreased our fiscal 2022 net earnings per share by approximately $0.14.

Credit risk is the exposure to nonperformance of another party to an agreement. We mitigate credit risk by dealing with highly rated bank counterparties. The market and credit risks associated with derivative instruments are similar to those relating to other types of financial instruments. See Notes 6 and 7 for additional information on derivative instruments and hedging activities.

COMPOSITION OF NON-RECOURSE NOTES PAYABLE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Variable-rate debt includes borrowings under our warehouse facilities as well as the variable portion of borrowings under our asset-backed term funding transactions. See Note 13.

Interest Rate Exposure - Other Debt

We have interest rate risk from changing interest rates related to borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We also have interest rate risk from changing interest rates related to borrowings under our term loans; however, a portion of the variable-rate risk is mitigated by derivative instruments. Substantially all of these borrowings are variable-rate debt based on LIBOR. A 

40

100-basis point increase in market interest rates would have decreased our fiscal 2022 net earnings per share by approximately $0.04. 

Other Market Exposures

Our pension plan has interest rate risk related to its projected benefit obligation (“PBO”). Due to the relatively young overall age of the plan’s participants, a 100-basis point change in the discount rate has approximately a 19% effect on the PBO balance. A 100-basis point decrease in the discount rate would have decreased our fiscal 2022 net earnings per share by less than $0.01. See Note 12 for more information on our benefit plans.

As our cash-settled restricted stock units are liability awards, the related compensation expense is sensitive to changes in the company’s stock price. The mark-to-market effect on the liability depends on each award’s grant price and previously recognized expense. At February 28, 2022, a 10% change in the company’s stock price would have affected fiscal 2022 net earnings per share by approximately $0.04.

41

Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.