Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

KCS is exposed to certain market risks including interest rate, commodity, and foreign exchange risks and utilizes various financial instruments that have certain inherent market risks. These instruments have been entered into for hedging rather than trading purposes. The following information, together with information included in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10, Derivative Instruments, describe the key aspects of certain financial instruments that have market risk to KCS.

The analysis presented below for each of the Company's market risks uses a sensitivity model based on hypothetical changes (increases or decreases) to market risks using defined parameters and assumptions to quantify the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income. The hypothetical changes to market risks do not represent KCS's view of future market changes. The effect of a change in a particular assumption was calculated without adjusting any other assumptions. These market risks and the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income for the current year, have not materially fluctuated, individually or in the aggregate from the preceding year; thus only current year information is presented below. 

Interest Rate Sensitivity. The Company is subject to interest rate risk associated with its debt. Changes in interest rates impact the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt, but there is no impact to current earnings or cash flow. Based upon the borrowing rates available to KCS and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was approximately $4,311.1 million and $4,368.6 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, compared with a carrying value of $3,777.6 million and $3,770.8 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Changes in interest rates may impact the cost of future long-term debt issued by the Company, and as a result, represent interest rate risk to the Company. During 2020, the Company executed six 30-year treasury lock agreements with an aggregate notional value of $650.0 million and a weighted-average interest rate of 1.58%. The purpose of the treasury locks is to hedge the U.S. Treasury benchmark interest rate associated with future interest payments related to the anticipated refinancing of the $444.7 million principal amount of 3.00% senior notes due May 15, 2023 and the $200.0 million principal amount of 3.85% senior notes due November 15, 2023. The Company has designated the treasury locks as cash flow hedges, and for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, recognized an unrealized gain of $17.2 million and $28.1 million, respectively, net of tax, in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. A hypothetical 100 basis points change in the 30-year U.S. Treasury Rate would result in a change in unrealized gain or loss of approximately $154.0 million. Upon settlement in 2023, the unrealized gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive income will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the future underlying debt issuances.

Alternatively, changes in interest rates do not affect the fair value of variable rate debt, but affect future earnings and cash flows. The Company's floating-rate indebtedness includes commercial paper borrowings, and any outstanding borrowings under revolving credit facilities. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, KCS had no commercial paper or revolving credit facility borrowings outstanding.

Commodity Price Sensitivity. KCS periodically participates in diesel fuel purchase commitments and derivative financial instruments. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, KCS did not have any outstanding fuel derivative financial instruments. The Company also holds fuel inventories for use in operations. These inventories are not material to KCS’s overall financial position. Fuel costs are expected to reflect market conditions in 2022; however, fuel costs are unpredictable and subject to a variety of factors outside the Company’s control. Assuming annual consumption of 125 million gallons, a hypothetical 10 cent change in the price per gallon of fuel would cause an $12.5 million change in operating expenses. KCS mitigates the impact of increased fuel costs through fuel surcharge revenues from customers; however, in a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge revenue may differ.

Foreign Exchange Sensitivity. KCS’s foreign subsidiaries use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency; however, a portion of the foreign subsidiaries’ revenues and expenses is denominated in Mexican pesos. Based on the volume of revenue and expense transactions denominated in Mexican pesos, revenue and expense fluctuations have historically offset. 

The Company has exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar due to its monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in Mexican pesos. Monetary assets and liabilities include cash, accounts receivable and payable and other items that will convert to cash in the future and are remeasured into dollars using the current exchange rate. The remeasurement and settlement of monetary assets and liabilities is recognized in the consolidated statements of income as foreign exchange gains and losses. At December 31, 2021, the Company had Ps.3,837.3 million of net monetary assets denominated in Mexican pesos, as monetary assets exceeded monetary liabilities.

45
The following table presents the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one Mexican peso per U.S. dollar at December 31, 2021:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s Mexican subsidiaries have net U.S. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities which, for Mexican income tax purposes, are subject to periodic revaluation based on changes in the value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. This revaluation creates fluctuations in the Company’s Mexican income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income and the amount of income taxes paid in Mexico. The Company also has net monetary assets denominated in Mexican pesos, that are subject to periodic re-measurement and settlement that creates fluctuations in foreign currency gains and losses in the consolidated statements of income. 

The following table presents the potential impacts to the effective income tax rate and income tax expense that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one Mexican peso at December 31, 2021: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company hedges its net exposure to variations in earnings by entering into foreign currency forward contracts. The foreign currency forward contracts involve the Company’s agreement to buy or sell pesos at an agreed-upon exchange rate on a future date. These derivative instruments have historically offset the effects of foreign currency changes resulting in minimal impact to net income. 

At December 31, 2021, the Company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $270.0 million, which matured during January 2022 and obligated the Company to sell a total of Ps.5,583.3 million at a weighted-average rate of Ps.20.7 to each U.S. dollar. During January 2022, the Company entered into offsetting contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $271.7 million, which matured during January 2022 and obligated the Company to purchase a total of Ps.5,583.3 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of Ps.20.6 to each U.S. dollar, resulting in cash paid of $1.7 million. Given the settlement during January 2022, the Company believes there was minimal market risk associated with these contracts at December 31, 2021. 

During January 2022, the Company entered into several foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $110.0 million, maturing in January of 2023. These contracts obligated the Company to sell a total of Ps.2,426.2 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of Ps.22.1 to each U.S. dollar. During January 2022, as a result of a change in the Company’s currency exposure, the Company entered into offsetting contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $50.5 million, which were settled during January 2022 and obligated the Company to purchase a total of Ps.1,105.3 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of Ps.21.9 to each U.S. dollar, resulting in cash paid of $0.5 million. As of the date of this filing, there were $60.0 million aggregate notional amount of contracts outstanding, which obligate the Company to sell a total of Ps.1,320.9 million at a weighted-average exchange rate of Ps.22.0 to each U.S. dollar.

46
The following table presents the potential impacts to the consolidated statements of income that would result from a hypothetical change in the exchange rate of one Mexican peso at maturity date for the foreign currency forward contracts entered into during January 2022 and outstanding as of the date of this filing: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company has not designated these foreign currency derivative instruments as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. The foreign currency derivative instruments will be measured at fair value each period and any change in fair value will be recognized in foreign exchange gain (loss) within the consolidated statements of income.

47
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data