Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following is a discussion of Kansas City Southern’s results of operations, certain changes in its financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the included consolidated financial statements, the related notes, and other information included in this report. 

CAUTIONARY INFORMATION

The discussions set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-looking statements. In addition, management may make forward-looking statements orally or in other writings, including, but not limited to, in press releases, executive presentations, in the annual report to stockholder and in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers can usually identify these forward-looking statements by the use of such verbs as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “plans,” “projects,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes” or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. Such differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, the factors identified below and those discussed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider these factors and the following factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company:

•public health threats or outbreaks of communicable diseases;

•transportation of hazardous materials;

•United States, Mexican and global economic, political and social conditions;

•the adverse impact of any termination or revocation by the Mexican government of Kansas City Southern de México, S.A. de C.V.’s (“KCSM”) Concession;

•changes in legislation and regulations or revisions of controlling authority;

•the effects of adverse general economic conditions affecting customer demand and the industries and geographic areas that produce and consume the commodities KCS carries;

•the effect of demand for KCS’s services exceeding network capacity or traffic congestion on operating efficiencies and service reliability;

•KCS’s reliance on agreements with other railroads and third parties to successfully implement its business strategy, operations and growth and expansion plans, including the strategy to convert customers from using trucking services to rail transportation services;

•the dependence on the stability, availability and security of the information technology systems to operate its business;

•acts of terrorism, war or other acts of violence or crime or risk of such activities;

24
•uncertainties regarding the litigation KCS faces and any future claims and litigation;

•the outcome of claims and litigation, including those related to environmental contamination, personal injuries and property damage; 

•compliance with environmental regulations;

•natural events such as severe weather, fire, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes or other disruptions to the Company’s operating systems, structures and equipment or the ability of customers to produce or deliver their products;

•insurance coverage limitations;

•climate change and the market and regulatory responses to climate change;

•the impact of competition, including competition from other rail carriers, trucking companies and maritime shippers in the United States and Mexico; 

•the effects of fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate;

•changes in labor costs and labor difficulties, including strikes and work stoppages affecting either operations or customers’ abilities to deliver goods for shipment;

•the effects of current and future multinational trade agreements on the level of trade among the United States, Mexico and Canada;

•the level of trade between the United States and Asia or Mexico;

•unavailability of qualified personnel;

•disruption in fuel supplies, changes in fuel prices and the Company’s ability to recapture its costs of fuel from customers;

•business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could arise during the pendency of the Voting Trust

•difficulty attracting, motivating, and retaining executives and other key employees due to uncertainty of the merger transaction;

•significant demands placed on KCS as a result of the merger of the two companies;

•KCS’s reliance on certain key suppliers of core rail equipment; and

•material adverse changes in economic and industry conditions, including the availability of short and long-term financing, both within the United States and Mexico and globally.

Forward-looking statements reflect the information only as of the date on which they are made. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, developments, or other information. If KCS does update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that additional updates will be made regarding that statement or any other forward-looking statements.

CORPORATE OVERVIEW

Kansas City Southern, a Delaware corporation, is a transportation holding company that has railroad investments in the U.S., Mexico and Panama. In the U.S., the Company serves the midwest and southeast regions of the U.S. Its international holdings serve northeastern and central Mexico and the port cities of Lazaro Cardenas, Tampico and Veracruz, and a fifty percent interest in Panama Canal Railway Company provides ocean-to-ocean freight and passenger service along the Panama Canal. KCS’s North American rail holdings and strategic alliances are primary components of a railway system, linking the commercial and industrial centers of the U.S., Canada and Mexico. KCS’s principal subsidiaries and affiliates include the following:

•The Kansas City Southern Railway Company (“KCSR”), a wholly-owned subsidiary;

•KCSM, a wholly-owned subsidiary;

•Mexrail, Inc. (“Mexrail”), a wholly-owned consolidated subsidiary which, in turn, wholly owns The Texas Mexican Railway Company (“Tex-Mex”);

•KCSM Servicios, S.A. de C.V. (“KCSM Servicios”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that was merged with KCSM in July 2021;

25
•Meridian Speedway, LLC (“MSLLC”), a seventy percent-owned consolidated affiliate;

•Panama Canal Railway Company (“PCRC”), a fifty percent-owned unconsolidated affiliate;

•TFCM, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“TCM”), a forty-five percent-owned unconsolidated affiliate;

•Ferrocarril y Terminal del Valle de México, S.A. de C.V. (“FTVM”), a twenty-five percent-owned unconsolidated affiliate; and

•PTC-220, LLC (“PTC-220”), a thirteen percent-owned unconsolidated affiliate.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Merger Agreement

On March 21, 2021, KCS entered into a merger agreement with Canadian Pacific Railway Limited (“CP”), a Canadian corporation, under which CP agreed to acquire KCS in a stock and cash transaction valued at $275 per common share. On May 6, 2021, the U. S. Surface Transportation Board (“STB”) unanimously approved the use of a voting trust for CP’s proposed merger with KCS. The voting trust permits KCS to maintain its independence and protect its financial health during the STB’s review of the ultimate merger as well as enable KCS stockholders to receive the value of their shares, even if the STB ultimately rejected the merger.

On April 20, 2021, KCS received an unsolicited merger proposal valued at $325 per common share from Canadian National Railway Company (“CN”), a Canadian corporation, which, after negotiation with and a revised proposal from CN, was determined on May 13, 2021 by the Company’s board of directors to be a superior proposal as defined by the CP merger agreement. On May 21, 2021, KCS terminated the CP merger agreement and paid CP a merger termination fee of $700.0 million, which was recognized in merger costs, net within the consolidated statements of income.

On May 21, 2021, KCS and CN entered into a merger agreement (the “CN merger agreement”), and a U.S. affiliate of CN paid KCS $700.0 million as reimbursement for the termination fee paid to CP. KCS was obligated to repay the termination fee to CN under certain circumstances, including but not limited to, if KCS were to terminate the CN merger agreement to accept a superior proposal as defined by the CN merger agreement. As a result, the $700.0 million reimbursement from CN was recognized in accounts payable and accrued liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet. In addition, KCS was obligated to pay CN a termination fee of $700.0 million to terminate the CN merger agreement.

On August 10, 2021, KCS received an unsolicited merger proposal from CP to acquire KCS in a stock and cash transaction valued at $300 per common share. On August 12, 2021, the Company’s board of directors determined that the CP proposal did not constitute a superior proposal as defined by the CN merger agreement. 

On August 31, 2021, the STB unanimously rejected the use of a voting trust in the proposed merger between CN and KCS. Shortly thereafter, CP reaffirmed its August 10th proposal to acquire KCS for a then estimated value of $300 per common share, which, after negotiation with CP, the Company’s board of directors determined to be a superior proposal as defined by the CN merger agreement. On September 15, 2021, KCS terminated the CN merger agreement and paid CN $1,400.0 million, which included (1) a $700.0 million merger termination fee recognized in merger costs, net within the consolidated statements of income and (2) reimbursement of the CN payment for the CP termination fee of $700.0 million recognized as a reduction to accounts payable and accrued liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet. 

On September 15, 2021, KCS and CP entered into a merger agreement (the “Merger Agreement”) and CP paid KCS $1,400.0 million, which included (1) $700.0 million for reimbursement of the CP termination fee recognized as a reduction of merger costs and (2) $700.0 million for reimbursement of the termination fee paid to CN. KCS was obligated to repay the $700.0 million CN termination fee to CP under certain circumstances, including but not limited to, if KCS were to terminate the Merger Agreement to accept a superior proposal as defined by the Merger Agreement. As a result, the $700.0 million reimbursement from CP was recognized in accounts payable and accrued liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet. In addition, KCS was required to pay CP a termination fee of $700.0 million to terminate the Merger Agreement.

On September 30, 2021, in response to the revised merger notice filed by CP in connection with the Merger Agreement, the STB reconfirmed its prior decision approving the use of the voting trust in the Merger Agreement.

On December 8, 2021, CP’s stockholders voted to approve the issuance of the CP common shares to KCS stockholders in connection with the proposed Merger Agreement. On December 10, 2021, KCS’s stockholders voted to approve the merger between KCS and CP. As a result, KCS had no further obligations to repay the $700.0 million CN termination fee to CP and eliminated the termination fee liability and recognized the termination fee reimbursement into income, reducing merger costs by $700.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2021, KCS incurred $1,400.0 million of merger termination fees, completely 

26
offset by the recovery of $1,400.0 million of merger termination fees recognized in merger costs, net within the consolidated statements of income. 

On December 14, 2021, CP acquired the outstanding common and preferred stock of KCS. Each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of KCS that was outstanding immediately prior to the merger was converted into the right to receive (1) 2.884 common shares of CP and (2) $90 in cash (together, the “Merger Consideration”), and each share of preferred stock, par value $25 per share, that was outstanding immediately prior to the merger was converted into the right to receive $37.50 in cash. The Merger Consideration value received by KCS stockholders was $301.20 per KCS common share. KCS stockholders were expected to own approximately 28% of CP’s outstanding common shares at the date of the acquisition.

The merger transaction was completed through a series of mergers as outlined in the Merger Agreement. These mergers ultimately resulted in KCS being merged with and into Cygnus Merger Sub 1 Corporation (“Surviving Merger Sub”), a wholly owned subsidiary of CP, with Surviving Merger Sub continuing as the surviving entity. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Surviving Merger Sub was renamed “Kansas City Southern” and as successor company of KCS, continued to own the assets of KCS. Immediately following the consummation of the mergers, CP caused the contribution, directly and indirectly, of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Surviving Merger Sub, as successor to KCS, to be deposited into an independent, irrevocable voting trust (the “Voting Trust”) under a voting trust agreement (the “Voting Trust Agreement”) approved by the STB, pending receipt of the final and non-appealable approval or exemption by the STB pursuant to 49 U.S.C. § 11323 et seq., of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (“STB Final Approval”). The Voting Trust prevents CP, or any affiliate of CP, from controlling or having the power to control KCS prior to STB Final Approval. Following receipt of STB Final Approval and approval from other applicable regulatory authorities, the Voting Trust will be terminated and CP will acquire control over KCS’s railroad operations. STB Final Approval is expected to be granted in the fourth quarter of 2022, subject to the regulatory review process.

On December 14, 2021, the merger of KCS and Surviving Merger Sub was accounted for as a recapitalization of KCS’s equity. Upon STB Final Approval, the transaction will be accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. See more details regarding the recapitalization in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 14, Stockholder(s)’ Equity. 

For the year ended December 31, 2021, KCS reported $264.0 million of merger-related costs. These merger costs primarily related to bankers’ fees, compensation and benefits costs, and legal fees and were recognized in merger costs, net within the consolidated statements of income. 

On September 30, 2021, KCS entered into a letter waiver with lenders to the KCS revolving credit facility to waive the events of default that would occur under the KCS revolving credit facility as a result of the change of control that would arise upon consummation of the voting trust transaction and as a result of CP obtaining control of KCS following final approval of the transaction by the STB. The foregoing description of the letter waiver is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the letter waiver, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.13.1. See more details regarding the Company’s debt in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 12, Long-Term Debt. 

On December 14, 2021, in connection with the closing of the merger transaction, the Company, Surviving Merger Sub and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, entered into supplemental indentures (the “Supplemental Indentures”) to (i) the Indenture, dated as of April 29, 2019, (ii) the Indenture, dated as of October 29, 2013, (iii) the Indenture, dated as of July 27, 2015 and (iv) the Indenture, dated as of December 9, 2015 (each, as amended, supplemented or modified from time to time, an “Indenture”), in each case pursuant to which the Surviving Merger Sub assumed the Company’s rights and obligations under each Indenture and the debt securities outstanding thereunder. In addition, the Company, Surviving Merger Sub and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (the “Agent”), entered into an assumption agreement and joinder (the “Assumption Agreement”) pursuant to which the Surviving Merger Sub assumed the Company’s rights and obligations under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of March 8, 2019, among the Company, the Agent and the other parties from time to time party thereto (as amended, supplemented or modified from time to time). The foregoing descriptions of the Supplemental Indentures and Assumption Agreement are not complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such Supplemental Indentures or Assumption Agreement, as applicable, copies of which are incorporated by reference as Exhibits 4.2.2, 4.4.3, 4.5.4, 4.6.15, and 10.13.2.

COVID-19

As a provider of critical infrastructure, KCS has an obligation to keep employees working and freight moving. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, KCS has remained focused on protecting the health and well-being of its employees and the communities in which it operates while assuring the continuity of its business operations. In 2020 and 2021, the Company 

27
has taken numerous measures to overcome adverse operational and financial impacts to the Company related to the COVID-19 pandemic including, but not limited to, implementing a variety of health and safety measures (e.g. separating dispatching and crew operations and providing enhanced cleaning and hygiene protocols), restricting administrative employee business travel and permitting remote work for employees where possible. In 2021, the Company strongly encouraged employees to get vaccinated and offered incentives to do so. 

COVID-19 costs increased total expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 by approximately $8.0 million, primarily due to expenses related to cleaning and decontamination of locomotives and other workspaces and the costs of protective gear for KCS employees and wages paid to employees who were symptomatic or in quarantine. COVID-19 costs for the year ended December 31, 2020 were approximately $10.0 million. The $2.0 million decrease in costs for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to the same period in 2020, was due to lower wages paid to certain employees who were allowed to stay home pursuant to a Mexican presidential decree. 

KCS believes it has a strong liquidity position to continue business operations and service its debt obligations. As disclosed in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section, the Company has total available liquidity of $939.3 million as of December 31, 2021, consisting of cash on hand and a revolving credit facility. KCS continues to monitor the on-going impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on its liquidity and capital resources.  

2021 Financial Overview

Revenues increased 12% for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to 2020, due to a 7% increase in revenue per carload/unit and a 5% increase in carload/unit volumes. Revenue per carload/unit increased due to higher fuel surcharge, positive pricing impacts, mix, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. Carload/unit volumes increased due to strength in utility coal shipments, recovery from COVID-19 impacts in 2020 on the industrial and consumer and intermodal business units, increased grain shipments, and strength in refined fuel product shipments into Mexico during the first half of the year, partially offset by refined fuel terminal shutdowns and import inspections delays as a result of increased Mexico regulation.

Operating expenses increased 27% for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to 2020, primarily due to merger costs, higher diesel fuel price and consumption, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues (“operating ratio”) increased to 70.0% in 2021 from 61.9% in 2020. 

28
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Year Ended December 31, 2021, compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2020

The following summarizes KCS’s consolidated income statement components (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Metrics 

The Company has established the following key metrics and goals to measure precision scheduled railroading (“PSR”) progress and performance:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(i) Gross velocity is the average train speed between origin and destination in miles per hour calculated as the sum of the miles traveled divided by the sum of total transit hours. Transit hours are measured as the difference between a train’s origin departure and destination arrival date and times broken down by segment across the train route (includes all time spent including crew changes, terminal dwell, delays, and incidents).

(ii) Terminal dwell is the average amount of time in hours between car arrival to and departure from the yard (excludes cars that move through a terminal on a run-through train, stored, bad ordered, and maintenance-of-way cars). Calculated by dividing the total number of hours cars spent in terminals by the total count of car dwell events.

(iii) Train length is the average length of a train across its reporting stations, including the origin and intermediate stations. Length of a train is the sum of car and locomotive lengths measured in feet.

(iv) Fuel efficiency is calculated by taking locomotive fuel consumed in gallons divided by thousand gross ton miles (“GTM’s”) net of detours with no associated fuel gallons. GTM’s are the movement of one ton of train weight over one mile calculated by multiplying total train weight by distance the train moved. GTM’s exclude locomotive gross ton miles.

The decline in velocity and increase in dwell for the year ended December 30, 2021, compared to 2020, were primarily due to lingering network congestion during the first half of 2021. 

29
Revenues 

The following summarizes revenues (in millions), carload/unit statistics (in thousands) and revenue per carload/unit:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues include revenue for transportation services and fuel surcharges. For the year ended December 31, 2021, revenues increased 12% due to an increase in revenue per carload/unit of 7% and an increase in carloads/unit volumes of 5%, respectively, compared to 2020. 

For the year ended December 31, 2021, revenue per carload/unit increased by 7%, compared to the prior year, due to higher fuel surcharge, positive pricing, mix, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. The average exchange rate of Mexican pesos per U.S. dollar was Ps.20.3 for 2021, compared to Ps.21.5 for 2020, which resulted in an increase to revenues of approximately $26.0 million.

Carload/unit volumes increased due to strength in utility coal shipments, recovery from COVID-19 impacts on the industrial and consumer and intermodal business units, increased grain shipments, and strength in refined fuel product shipments into Mexico during the first half of the year, partially offset by refined fuel terminal shutdowns and import inspections delays as a result of increased Mexico regulation.

KCS’s fuel surcharges are a mechanism to adjust revenue based upon changes in fuel prices above fuel price thresholds set in KCS’s tariffs or contracts. Fuel surcharge revenue is calculated using a fuel price from a prior time period that can be up to 60 days earlier. In a period of volatile fuel prices or changing customer business mix, changes in fuel expense and fuel surcharge revenue may differ. 

Fuel surcharge revenue increased $65.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher fuel prices and volumes.

30
The following discussion provides an analysis of revenues by commodity group: 

Revenues by commodity

group for 2021

Chemical and petroleum. Revenues increased $88.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to a 7% increase in revenue per carload/unit and a 4% increase in carload/unit volumes. Revenue per carload/unit increased due to mix, higher fuel surcharge, positive pricing impacts, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by shorter average length of haul. Volumes increased due to refined fuel product shipments into Mexico during the first half of the year, partially offset by refined fuel terminal shutdowns and import inspections delays as a result of increased Mexico regulation.

Industrial and consumer products. Revenues increased $51.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to an 8% increase in revenue per carload/unit and 1% increase in carload/unit volumes. Revenue per carload/unit increased due to mix, higher fuel surcharge, positive pricing impacts, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by shorter average length of haul. Volumes increased primarily due to recovery from COVID-19 impacts in 2020, increased demand for metals and scrap, and new steel plants opening on the KCSM network.

31
Revenues by commodity

group for 2021

Agriculture and minerals. Revenues increased $66.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to an 8% increase in carload/unit volumes and a 5% increase in revenue per carload/unit. Volumes increased due to grain shipments on improved cycle times. Revenue per carload/unit increased due to higher fuel surcharge, positive pricing impacts, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by mix and shorter average length of haul.

Energy. Revenues increased $59.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to a 25% increase in carload/unit volumes and a 4% increase in revenue per carload/unit. Volumes increased in utility coal as a result of higher natural gas prices, plant outages in prior year, and rebuilding of stockpiles. Volumes also increased in crude oil due to new business and recovery of economic conditions. Revenue per carload/unit increased due to higher fuel surcharge, longer average length of haul, positive pricing impacts, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by mix. 

Intermodal. Revenues increased $27.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to a 5% increase in revenue per carload/unit and a 3% increase in carload/unit volumes. Revenue per carload/unit increased compared to the same period in 2020, due to higher fuel surcharge, positive pricing impacts, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by mix. Carload/unit volumes increased due to recovery from COVID-19 impacts in 2020, partially offset by service interruptions at Lazaro Cardenas port in Mexico due to KCSM right-of-way blockages resulting from teachers’ protests from the end of July through early November and lower auto plant production driven by a global microchip shortage affecting auto parts shipments. 

Automotive. Revenues increased $10.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to a 12% increase in revenue per carload/unit, partially offset by a 6% decrease in carload/unit volumes. Revenue per carload/unit increased compared to the same period in 2020, due to longer average length of haul, the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar, higher fuel surcharge, positive pricing impacts, and mix. Volumes decreased due to lower auto plant production driven by a global microchip shortage. 

32
Operating Expenses

Operating expenses, as shown below (in millions), increased $433.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to merger costs, higher diesel fuel price and consumption and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. 

The strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar resulted in increased expense of approximately $25.0 million for expense transactions denominated in Mexican pesos. The average exchange rate of Mexican pesos per U.S. dollar was Ps.20.3 for 2021 compared to Ps.21.5 for 2020. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Compensation and benefits. Compensation and benefits increased $45.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to wage and benefit inflation of approximately $18.0 million, an increase in headcount and hours worked of approximately $15.0 million, the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar of approximately $8.0 million, and costs relating to Mexican outsourcing reform of approximately $8.0 million, partially offset by decreased incentive compensation of approximately $8.0 million.

Purchased services. Purchased services expense increased $13.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to an increase in software and programming expense of approximately $8.0 million, higher trackage rights of approximately $4.0 million, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar of approximately $3.0 million. 

Fuel. Fuel expense increased $93.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to higher diesel fuel prices in the U.S. and Mexico of approximately $48.0 million and $23.0 million, respectively, increased consumption of approximately $13.0 million, and the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar of approximately $10.0 million. The average price per gallon was $2.50 in 2021, compared to $1.90 in 2020. 

Equipment costs. Equipment costs decreased $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to decreased car hire expense of approximately $2.0 million due to decreased rates, including incentives. Equipment costs also decreased due to lower lease expense of approximately $2.0 million primarily due to freight car lease expirations and terminations resulting from PSR initiatives.

Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to a larger asset base. 

Materials and other. Materials and other expense increased $43.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to increased materials and supplies expense of approximately $23.0 million, primarily resulting from increasing the active locomotive fleet to support service recovery and volume growth in the second half of 2021; a one-time contract dispute recognized of approximately $10.0 million; higher employee expenses of approximately $8.0 million; unfavorable legal settlement of approximately $5.0 million; reduced property taxes of approximately $4.0 million in 2020; and 

33
the strengthening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar of approximately $4.0 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in personal injury expense of approximately $11.0 million.

Merger costs, net. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recognized $264.0 million of merger costs primarily related to bankers’ fees, compensation and benefits costs, and legal fees. Refer to Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 3, Merger Agreement for more information.

Write-off of software development costs. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized $13.6 million of expense related to costs previously capitalized for the development of internal-use software. The development of the software was cancelled prior to completion and had no further use.

Restructuring charges. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized $17.0 million of restructuring charges primarily related to the Company’s voluntary separation program of $9.7 million and the purchase of impaired, leased locomotives of $6.0 million. Refer to Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4, Restructuring Charges for more information.

Non-Operating Expenses

Equity in net earnings (losses) of affiliates. Equity in net earnings (losses) of affiliates increased $18.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to increases in net earnings from PCRC resulting from increased container volumes and a gain on insurance recoveries recognized in the third quarter of 2021, related to a three-month rail bridge outage that occurred in June 2020. Equity in earnings of TCM increased due to decreased interest, tax expense and foreign exchange losses. Equity in earnings of FTVM increased due to decreased expenses from prior year.

Interest expense. Interest expense increased $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to higher average debt balances. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the average debt balance (including commercial paper) was $3,809.4 million, compared to $3,679.4 million in 2020. The average interest rate for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was 4.1% for both periods. 

Foreign exchange loss. For the year ended December 31, 2021, foreign exchange loss was $9.0 million, compared to a loss of $29.6 million in 2020. Foreign exchange loss includes the re-measurement and settlement of net monetary assets denominated in Mexican pesos and the loss on foreign currency derivative contracts. 

For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the re-measurement and settlement of net monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Mexican pesos resulted in a foreign exchange loss of $5.3 million and $7.1 million, respectively.

The Company enters into foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge its net exposure to fluctuations in the Mexican cash tax obligation due to changes in the value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. For the year ended December 31, 2021, foreign exchange loss on foreign currency derivative contracts was $3.7 million, compared to a loss of $22.5 million in 2020.

Other income, net. Other income, net, increased $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020 primarily due to an increase in miscellaneous income. 

Income tax expense. Income tax expense increased $7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 2020, due to a higher effective tax rate. The higher effective tax rate was primarily due to non-deductible transaction costs and executive compensation resulting from the merger. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2020 included a one-time benefit for global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) regulations that provided for a retroactive high-tax exception. The increase in tax expense was partially offset by excess tax benefits on share-based compensation, lower pre-tax income due to merger costs and changes in state tax law.

The fluctuations of the Mexican peso decreased the Company’s Mexican cash tax obligation by $3.1 million and $13.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

34
 Differences between the Company’s effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 21% for 2021 and 2020 follow (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(i)The Company’s Mexican subsidiaries have net U.S. dollar-denominated monetary liabilities which, for Mexican income tax purposes, are subject to periodic revaluation based on changes in the value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. This revaluation creates fluctuations in the Company’s Mexican income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income and the amount of income taxes paid in Mexico. The Company also has net monetary assets denominated in Mexican pesos, that are subject to periodic re-measurement and settlement that creates fluctuations in foreign currency gains and losses in the consolidated statements of income. The Company hedges its net exposure to variations in earnings by entering into foreign currency forward contracts. The foreign currency forward contracts involve the Company’s agreement to buy or sell pesos at an agreed-upon exchange rate on a future date. Refer to to Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10, Derivative Instruments for further information.

Mexico Regulatory and Legal Updates 

Outsourcing Reform. In April 2021, Mexico approved several amendments to federal labor, tax, social security, and other laws (“Outsourcing Reform”), which prohibit the subcontracting and outsourcing of personnel. Outsourcing Reform allows for certain exceptions, including the subcontracting of specialized services that are not part of a recipient company’s corporate purpose or main economic activities. A 90-day transition period was granted to allow companies to comply with Outsourcing Reform. Non-compliance could result in penalties and the loss of deductions and value-added tax (“VAT”) credits on third party and related party service payments. 

Previously, KCSM subcontracted its management and union employees, other than the president and executive representative of KCSM, from its affiliate, KCSM Servicios, S.A. de C.V. (“KCSM Servicios”), a wholly-owned and consolidated subsidiary of the Company. As a result of Outsourcing Reform, KCSM Servicios was merged into KCSM on July 2, 2021, resulting in KCSM Servicios employees becoming employees of KCSM.

Outsourcing Reform also limits the statutory profit sharing payment per employee (referred to by its Spanish acronym “PTU”) to the greater of three months’ salary or the average of the amount of profit sharing received in the last three years. KCSM Servicios’ employees were eligible for PTU and received PTU payments and other bonuses. As employees of KCSM, employees are eligible to receive PTU payments from KCSM. Outsourcing Reform increased 2021 net expense by 

35
approximately $5.0 million. KCSM does not expect Outsourcing Reform will have a significant impact on the Company’s 2022 consolidated financial statements.

Hydrocarbons Law. On May 5, 2021, new legislation pertaining to the transport and handling of hydrocarbons in Mexico became effective. This legislation addresses a wide array of issues related to the storage, transportation and handling of petroleum products, as well as the illegal import of hydrocarbons. The legislation is being challenged in the court system by a number of stakeholders and is currently subject to a court-ordered injunction, resulting in a suspension of the implementation and enforcement of this new law. To date, this law has not had a material effect on the Company or its operations. However, the Company is continuing to monitor this law and is evaluating the effect on the Company and its business operations.

Inspections Related to Imports and Terminals. During 2021, the SCT and other relevant Mexican authorities increased inspections of imports and enforcement of various regulations and permit requirements related to terminal operations, with specific focus on imports of refined products and refined fuel transloading terminals and freight terminals, in order to prevent the illegal importation of refined fuel products. These inspections resulted in delays related to the import of shipments into Mexico as well as the shutdown of several refined fuel terminals in the second half of 2021. The SCT has instructed KCSM to provide railway service only to those terminals that have the applicable permits. If KCSM were to fail to comply with the SCT requirements, the Company could be subject to fines and potential revocation of the Concession. As a result, KCS’s freight revenue from refined products decreased significantly in the second half of 2021, as compared to the first half of 2021. See further discussion in the Revenues section.

Value-Added Tax Law. In November 2021, changes in the VAT law were effective beginning January 1, 2022 that reduce the recoverability of VAT paid by KCSM on its expenditures that support international import transportation service revenues that are not subject to a VAT charge. As a result of the law change, in general, beginning in 2022, KCSM is changing its service offering for these services in a manner that either requires VAT to be charged to customers on KCSM’s transportation service revenue, or the imposition by KCSM of a rate increase to offset the negative impact of the unrecoverable VAT. As a result of mitigation activities taken by the Company, KCSM does not expect this change in law will have a significant impact on the Company’s 2022 consolidated financial statements.

Carta Porte. In the second quarter of 2021, KCSM was notified by the Servicio de Administración Tributaria (“SAT”) that shipping companies (cargo airlines, trucks, maritime, railroads, etc.) must include additional bill of lading information (referred to in Mexico as “Carta Porte”) with the invoice for all merchandise shipped in Mexico, including cross-border, international and Mexico domestic shipments. The Carta Porte requirements and deadline were modified several times throughout 2021. The effective date of January 1, 2022, included a three month grace period during which penalties and fines for inaccurate information would not be imposed. KCSM adapted its systems to comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with Carta Porte requirements subsequent to the grace period could result in penalties and fines imposed by the SAT, shipping delays causing network congestion and delayed invoicing and cash collections. In addition, in the event of repeated noncompliance with Carta Porte requirements, the SAT has the power to preventively shutdown operations of a company.

For a comparison of the Company’s results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 to the year ended December 31, 2019, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on January 29, 2021.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Overview

The Company focuses its cash and capital resources on investing in the business, shareholder returns and optimizing its capital structure.

The Company believes, based on current expectations, that cash and other liquid assets, operating cash flows, and other available financing resources will be sufficient to fund anticipated operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt service costs, dividends, and other commitments for the foreseeable future. 

36
During the first quarter of 2021, KCS received 233,402 shares of common stock as final settlement of the forward contracts totaling $75.0 million under the accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) agreements entered into during October 2020 under the 2019 share repurchase program. The final weighted-average price per share of the shares repurchased under these ASR agreements was $191.75. The Company terminated its share repurchase program upon entering into its initial merger agreement with CP in March 2021. Refer to Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 14, Stockholder(s)’ Equity for additional detail on the Company’s common share repurchase program and ASR agreements.

During 2021, the Company invested $489.4 million in capital expenditures. See Capital Expenditures section for further details.

The Company’s financing instruments contain restrictive covenants that limit or preclude certain actions; however, the covenants are structured such that the Company expects to have sufficient flexibility to conduct its operations. The Company has been, and expects to continue to be, in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 

For discussion regarding the agreements representing the indebtedness of KCS, refer to Note 11, Short-Term Borrowings and Note 12, Long-Term Debt of the consolidated financial statements.

During the first three quarters of 2021, the Company’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.54 per share or $147.3 million on its common stock. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, KCS plans to make periodic cash distributions to a wholly-owned subsidiary of CP based upon cash generated, the timing of capital expenditures and working capital needs of the Company. 

On December 31, 2021, total available liquidity (the cash balance plus revolving credit facility availability) was $939.3 million, compared to available liquidity at December 31, 2020 of $788.2 million. 

As of December 31, 2021, the total cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. in foreign subsidiaries was $11.5 million, after repatriating $336.2 million during 2021. The Company expects that this cash will be available to fund company operations without incurring significant additional income taxes. 

Since January 2019, the Company has generated a refundable VAT balance and filed refund claims with the SAT that are still under review. The refundable VAT balance increased to $152.2 million as of December 31, 2021. Delays in refunds of VAT from the Mexican government negatively impacted KCSM’s cash flow by approximately $57.0 million and $43.0 million in 2021 and 2020. 

Cash Flow Information and Contractual Obligations

Summary cash flow data follows (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2021, cash and cash equivalents increased $151.1 million as a result of the impacts discussed below. 

37
Operating Cash Flows. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $144.2 million for 2021, as compared to 2020, primarily due to cash payments for merger of costs of $2,287.2 million, partially offset by merger termination fee reimbursements of $2,100.0 million, lower payments for settlements of foreign currency derivative instruments of $18.1 million, and increased distributions from affiliates of $7.5 million. 

Investing Cash Flows. Net cash used for investing activities increased $5.2 million for 2021, as compared to 2020, due to an $84.9 million increase in capital expenditures, partially offset by a $78.2 million decrease in expenditures for the purchase or replacement of assets under existing operating leases. Additional information is included within the Capital Expenditure section of Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Financing Cash Flows. Net cash used for financing activities decreased $259.1 million for 2021, as compared to 2020, due to a decrease in shares repurchased, including under ASR agreements, of $888.9 million, partially offset by a decrease in proceeds from issuance of long-term debt of $545.6 million and an increase in cash settlement of stock options of $75.2 million.

For a comparison of liquidity and capital resources and the Company’s cash flow activities for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on January 29, 2021.

Contractual Obligations. The following table outlines the material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(i)For variable rate obligations, interest payments were calculated using the December 31, 2021 rate. For fixed rate obligations, interest payments were calculated based on the applicable rates and payment dates.

(ii)Capital expenditure obligations include minimum capital expenditures under the KCSM Concession agreement and other regulatory requirements.

(iii)Other contractual obligations include purchase commitments and certain maintenance agreements.

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into long-term contractual commitments for future goods and services needed for the operations of the business. Such commitments are not in excess of expected requirements and are not reasonably likely to result in performance penalties or payments that would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. Such commitments are not included in the above table.

The SCT requires KCSM to submit a three-year capital expenditures plan every three years. The most recent three-year plan was submitted in 2020 for the years 2021 — 2023. KCSM expects to continue capital spending at current levels in future years and will continue to have capital expenditure obligations past 2023, which are not included in the table above.

38
Capital Expenditures

KCS has funded capital expenditures with operating cash flows and short and long-term debt.

The following table summarizes capital expenditures by type for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Generally, the Company’s capital program consists of capital replacement and equipment. For 2022, internally generated cash flows are expected to fund cash capital expenditures, which are currently estimated to be approximately 16.5% of revenue in 2022, assuming constant currency and fuel price.

Property Statistics 

The following table summarizes certain property statistics as of December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The following is a description of the terms and conditions of the guarantees with respect to senior notes for which KCS is an issuer or provides full and unconditional guarantee.

Note Guarantees

As of December 31, 2021, KCS had outstanding $3,736.2 million principal amount of senior notes due through 2069. The Kansas City Southern Railway Company (“KCSR”) had outstanding $2.7 million principal amount of senior notes due through 2045 (together, the “Senior Notes”). The senior notes for which KCS is the issuer are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on an unsecured senior basis, by each of KCS’s current and future domestic consolidated subsidiaries that from time to time guarantees certain of KCS’s credit agreements, or any other debt of KCS, or any of KCS’s significant subsidiaries that is a guarantor (each, a “Guarantor Subsidiary,” and collectively, the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”). In addition, the senior notes for which KCSR is the issuer are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on an unsecured senior basis, by KCS and each of its current and future domestic consolidated subsidiaries that from time to time guarantees KCSR’s credit agreement, or any other debt of KCSR or any of KCSR’s significant subsidiaries that is a Guarantor Subsidiary. The obligations of each Guarantor Subsidiary under its note guarantee are limited as necessary to prevent such note guarantee from constituting a fraudulent conveyance under applicable law. A guarantee of the Senior Notes by KCS or a Guarantor Subsidiary is subject to release in the following circumstances: (i) the sale, disposition, exchange or other transfer (including through merger, consolidation, amalgamation or otherwise) of the capital stock of the Guarantor Subsidiary made in a manner not in violation of the indenture; 

39
(ii) the designation of the subsidiary as an “Unrestricted Subsidiary” under the indenture; (iii) the legal defeasance or covenant defeasance of the Senior Notes in accordance with the terms of the indenture; or (iv) the Guarantor Subsidiary ceasing to be KCS’s subsidiary as a result of any foreclosure of any pledge or security interest securing KCS’s Revolving Credit Facility or other exercise of remedies in respect thereof. There were no changes to the guarantor structure as a result of the merger with CP. The merger is further discussed within Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Information and Results of Operations — Merger Agreement. 

KCSM and any other foreign subsidiaries of KCS do not, and will not, guarantee the Senior Notes (“Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”).

The following tables present summarized financial information for KCS and the Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis after intercompany transactions have been eliminated, including adjustments to remove the receivable and payable balances, investment in, and equity in earnings from the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries. 

Summarized Financial Information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Excluded from current assets in the table above are $199.8 million and $183.7 million of current intercompany receivables due to KCS and the Guarantor Subsidiaries from the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. Excluded from current liabilities in the table above are $267.5 million and $235.8 million of current intercompany payables due to the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries from KCS and the Guarantor Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively.

The Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries. The Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to the Senior Notes or the indentures, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments. Any right that KCS or the Guarantor Subsidiaries have to receive any assets of any of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries upon the liquidation or reorganization of any Non-Guarantor Subsidiary, and the consequent rights of holders of Senior Notes to realize proceeds from the sale of any of a Non-Guarantor Subsidiary’s assets, would be effectively subordinated to the claims of such Non-Guarantor Subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors 

40
and holders of preferred equity interests, if any, of such Non-Guarantor Subsidiary. Accordingly, in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of any of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries will pay the holders of their debts, holders of preferred equity interests, if any, and their trade creditors before they will be able to distribute any of their assets to KCS or any Guarantor Subsidiary. 

If a Guarantor Subsidiary were to become a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or encounter other financial difficulty, under federal or state fraudulent transfer or conveyance law, a court may avoid, subordinate or otherwise decline to enforce its guarantee of the Senior Notes. A court might do so if it is found that when such Guarantor Subsidiary entered into its guarantee of the Senior Notes, or in some states when payments became due under the Senior Notes, such Guarantor Subsidiary received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and either: 

• was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; 

• was left with unreasonably small or otherwise inadequate capital to conduct its business; or 

• believed or reasonably should have believed that it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay. 

The court might also avoid the guarantee of the Senior Notes without regard to the above factors, if the court found that a Guarantor Subsidiary entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. 

A court would likely find that a Guarantor Subsidiary did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for its guarantee of the Senior Notes, if such Guarantor Subsidiary did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the funding made available by the issuance of the Senior Notes. If a court were to avoid a guarantee of the Senior Notes provided by a Guarantor Subsidiary, holders of the Senior Notes would no longer have any claim against such Guarantor Subsidiary. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer or conveyance has occurred, such that the Company cannot predict what standards a court would use to determine whether or not a Guarantor Subsidiary was solvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the guarantee of a Guarantor Subsidiary would not be subordinated to such Guarantor Subsidiary’s other debt. As noted above, each guarantee provided by a Guarantor Subsidiary includes a provision intended to limit the Guarantor Subsidiary’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. This provision may not be effective to protect those guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer or conveyance law, or it may reduce that Guarantor Subsidiary’s obligation to an amount that effectively makes its guarantee worthless, and the Company cannot predict whether a court will ultimately find it to be effective. 

On the basis of historical financial information, operating history and other factors, the Company believes that each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries, after giving effect to the issuance of its guarantee of the Senior Notes when such guarantee was issued, was not insolvent, did not have unreasonably small capital for the business in which it engaged and did not and has not incurred debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. The Company cannot predict, however, as to what standard a court would apply in making these determinations or that a court would agree with the Company’s conclusions in this regard.

41
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

KCS’s accounting and financial reporting policies are in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management believes that the following accounting policies and estimates are critical to an understanding of KCS’s historical and future performance. Management has discussed the development and selection of the following critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of KCS’s Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the selection, application and disclosure of the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates.

Capitalization, Depreciation and Amortization of Property and Equipment (including Concession Assets)

Due to the highly capital intensive nature of the railroad industry, capitalization and depreciation of property and equipment are a substantial portion of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Net property and equipment, including concession assets, comprised approximately 88% of the Company’s total assets as of December 31, 2021, and related depreciation and amortization comprised approximately 18% of total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021.

KCS capitalizes costs for self-constructed additions and improvements to property including direct labor and material, indirect costs, and interest during long-term construction projects. The Company has a process in place to determine which costs qualify for capitalization, which requires judgment. Direct costs are charged to capital projects based on the work performed and the material used. Indirect costs are allocated to capital projects as a standard percentage, which is evaluated annually, and applied to direct labor and material costs. Asset removal activities are performed in conjunction with replacement activities; therefore, removal costs are estimated based on a standard percentage of direct labor and indirect costs related to capital replacement projects. For purchased assets, all costs necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are capitalized. Expenditures that significantly increase asset values, productive capacity, efficiency, safety or extend useful lives are capitalized. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.

KCS capitalizes certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal-use software. Capitalized software costs are included in “Property and Equipment” on the consolidated balance sheets. Costs incurred during the preliminary project and post-implementation stage, as well as maintenance and training costs, are expensed as incurred. 

Property and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated primarily on the group method of depreciation, which the Company believes closely approximates a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets measured in years. The group method of depreciation applies a composite rate to classes of similar assets rather than to individual assets. Composite depreciation rates are based upon the Company’s estimates of the expected average useful lives of assets as well as expected net salvage value at the end of their useful lives. In developing these estimates, the Company utilizes periodic depreciation studies performed by an independent engineering firm. Depreciation rate studies are performed at least every three years for all asset classes. The depreciation studies take into account factors such as:

•Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each asset class;

•Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for the continued use of the assets;

•Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices;

•Historical and expected salvage to be received upon retirement;

•Review of accounting policies and assumptions; and

•Industry precedents and trends.

The depreciation studies may also indicate that the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient or in excess of the amount indicated by the study. Any such deficiency or excess is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining useful lives of the affected asset class, as determined by the study. The Company also monitors these factors in non-study years to determine if adjustments should be made to depreciation rates. The Company completed depreciation studies for KCSR in 2021 and KCSM in 2020. The impacts of the studies were immaterial to the consolidated financial results for all periods presented. The Company expects 2022 depreciation expense to increase by approximately $11.0 million as a result of the 2021 KCSR depreciation study completed in the fourth quarter of 2021.

42
Also under the group method of depreciation, the cost of railroad property and equipment (net of salvage or sales proceeds) retired or replaced in the normal course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation with no gain or loss recognized. Actual historical costs are retired when available, such as with equipment costs. The use of estimates in recognizing the retirement of roadway assets is necessary as it is impractical to track individual, homogeneous network-type assets. Certain types of roadway assets are retired using statistical curves derived from the depreciation studies that indicate the relative distribution of the age of the assets retired. For other roadway assets, historical costs are estimated by deflating current costs using inflation indices and the estimated useful life of the assets as determined by the depreciation studies. The indices applied to the replacement value are selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the items comprising the roadway assets. Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of assets is completely retired, the Company continually monitors the estimated useful lives of its assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset group to ensure the depreciation rates are appropriate.

Estimation of the average useful lives of assets and net salvage values requires management judgment. Estimated average useful lives may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies and other factors that could have an impact on the retirement experience of the asset classes. Accordingly, changes in the assets’ estimated useful lives could significantly impact future periods’ depreciation expense. Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $365.8 million. If the weighted average useful lives of assets were changed by one year, annual depreciation and amortization expense would change approximately $12.0 million.

Gains or losses on dispositions of land or non-group property and abnormal retirements of railroad property are recognized through income. A retirement of railroad property would be considered abnormal if the retirement meets each of the following conditions: (i) is unusual in nature, (ii) is significant in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through the depreciation studies. There were no significant gains or losses from abnormal retirements of property or equipment for the year ended December 31, 2021. KCS recognized $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from asset impairments of certain locomotives and railcars as a result of the implementation of PSR. Refer to Note 4, Restructuring Charges of the consolidated financial statements for more information. 

Costs incurred by the Company to acquire the Concession rights and related assets, as well as subsequent improvements to the Concession assets, are capitalized and amortized using the group method of depreciation over the lesser of the current expected Concession term, including probable renewal of an additional 50-year term, or the estimated useful lives of the assets and rights. The Company’s ongoing evaluation of the useful lives of Concession assets and rights considers the aggregation of the following facts and circumstances:

•The Company’s executive management is dedicated to ensuring compliance with the various provisions of the Concession and to maintaining positive relationships with the SCT and other Mexican federal, state, and municipal governmental authorities;

•During the time since the Concession was granted, the relationships between KCSM and the various Mexican governmental authorities have matured and the guidelines for operating under the Concession have become more defined with experience;

•There are no known supportable sanctions or compliance issues that would cause the SCT to revoke the Concession or prevent KCSM from renewing the Concession; and

•KCSM operations are an integral part of the KCS operations strategy, and related investment analyses and operational decisions assume that the Company’s cross border rail business operates into perpetuity, and do not assume that Mexico operations terminate at the end of the current Concession term.

Based on the above factors, as of December 31, 2021, the Company continues to believe that it is probable that the Concession will be renewed for an additional 50-year term beyond the current term.

Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, operating lease right-of-use assets and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment and written down to fair value when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or asset group may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present and the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the long-lived assets, the carrying value would be reduced to the estimated fair value. Future cash flow estimates for an impairment review would be based on the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which are the Company’s U.S. and Mexican operations. During the year ended December 31, 2020, $13.6 million 

43
of expense was recognized related to costs previously capitalized for the development of internal-use software. The development of the software was cancelled prior to completion and had no further use. Other than the abnormal impairment related to the implementation of PSR and the aforementioned software impairment, management did not identify any indicators of impairment for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.

Income Taxes 

Deferred income taxes represent a net asset or liability of the Company. For financial reporting purposes, management determines the current tax liability, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities, in accordance with the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. The provision for income taxes is the sum of income taxes both currently payable and deferred into the future. Currently payable income taxes represent the liability related to the Company’s U.S., state and foreign income tax returns for the current year and anticipated tax payments resulting from income tax audits, while the net deferred tax expense or benefit represents the change in the balance of net deferred tax assets or liabilities as reported on the balance sheet. The changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based upon the estimated timing of reversal of differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the basis of assets and liabilities for tax purposes as measured using the currently enacted tax rates that will be in effect at the time these differences are expected to reverse. Additionally, management estimates whether taxable operating income in future periods will be sufficient to fully recognize any deferred tax assets. Valuation allowances are recorded as appropriate to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount considered likely to be realized.

Income tax expense related to Mexican operations has additional complexities such as the impact of exchange rate variations, which can have a significant impact on the effective income tax rate.

Management believes that the assumptions and estimates related to the provision for income taxes are critical to the Company’s results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2021, income tax expense totaled $211.1 million. For every 1% change in the 2021 effective rate, income tax expense would have changed by approximately $7.4 million. For further information on the impact of foreign exchange fluctuation on income taxes, refer to Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Sensitivity.

OTHER MATTERS

Litigation. Occasionally, the Company is a party to various legal proceedings, regulatory examinations, investigations, administrative actions, and other legal matters, arising for the most part in the ordinary course of business, incidental to its operations. Included in these proceedings are various tort claims brought by current and former employees for job-related injuries and by third parties for injuries related to railroad operations. KCS aggressively defends these matters and has established liability provisions that management believes are adequate to cover expected costs. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain. KCS believes it has valid defenses to the legal matters currently pending against it, is defending itself vigorously, and has recorded accruals determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, where appropriate. In making a determination regarding accruals, using available information, KCS evaluates the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome in legal or regulatory proceedings to which it is a party to and records a loss contingency when it is probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These subjective determinations are based on the status of such legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of KCS’s defenses and consultation with legal counsel. Actual outcomes of these legal and regulatory proceedings may materially differ from the current estimates. It is possible that resolution of one or more of the legal matters currently pending or threatened could result in losses material to KCS’s consolidated results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.

Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of any legal proceeding, in the opinion of the Company’s management, other than as described in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies of the consolidated financial statements, such proceedings and actions should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 

Inflation. U.S. GAAP require the use of historical cost, which does not reflect the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property. Due to the capital intensive nature of KCS’s business, the replacement cost of these assets would be significantly higher than the amounts reported under the historical cost basis.

44
Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk