PART I

Item 1. Business.

Overview

Jefferies Financial Group Inc. ("Jefferies," "we," "our" or the "Company") is engaged in investment banking and capital markets and asset management. Our strategy focuses on continuing to build out our investment banking effort, enhancing our capital markets businesses and further developing our Leucadia Asset Management alternative asset management platform, while returning excess capital to shareholders. Jefferies Group LLC ("Jefferies Group"), our largest subsidiary, was established in 1962 and is the largest independent U.S.-headquartered global full-service integrated investment banking and securities firm.

We own a legacy portfolio of businesses and investments that we historically denominated as our "Merchant Banking" business and are reflected in our consolidated results as consolidated subsidiaries, equity investments, securities or in other ways. We are well along in the process of liquidating this portfolio, with the intention of selling to third parties, distributing to shareholders or transferring the balance of this portfolio to our Asset Management reportable segment over the next few years. 

Subsequent to year end, on December 1, 2021, we made a $477 million contribution of investments, including Foursight Capital and other Asset Management and Merchant Banking investments, to Jefferies Group. The net book value of our entire Merchant Banking portfolio and our asset management investments, held outside of Jefferies Group, totaled $2.1 billion at November 30, 2021. Pro forma for the $477 million of Merchant Banking and asset management investments that were contributed, the net book value of these assets held outside of Jefferies Group was $1.6 billion. 

Over our last four fiscal years, we generated significant excess liquidity from operations and sales of Merchant Banking businesses. In keeping with our strategy, $3.9 billion was returned to shareholders, including 127 million shares repurchased at an average price of $21.55 per share (equal to 38% of book value at the beginning of this four-year period). In addition, in light of our performance and prospects, as well as our limited need for incremental equity capital, in January 2022, our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.30 per share, a 140% increase from two years ago, and increased our share buyback authorization back to a total of $250 million. We expect to continue to return capital to shareholders via dividends and buybacks, as well as, if financial conditions and circumstances permit, in-kind distributions or special cash dividends as we complete the wind down of the legacy Merchant Banking portfolio.

Our executive offices are located at 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022, as is the global headquarters of Jefferies Group. Our primary telephone number is (212) 460-1900 and our website address is www.jefferies.com. At November 30, 2021, we had 5,556 full-time employees, including 4,508 full-time employees at Jefferies Group. Jefferies Group retains a credit rating separate from Jefferies and remains a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reporting company.

The discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors presented in Item 1A of Part I and the Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 of Part II.

Recent Events

In July 2021, we entered into a strategic alliance with Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. (together referred to as "SMBC Group"). Through the strategic alliance, we expect to coordinate across highly accretive growth areas in the corporate and investment banking business. These initiatives are expected to strengthen the existing businesses of both firms, and enhance each firm's ability to support its clients' needs. Jefferies and SMBC Group will, among other things, coordinate efforts in the U.S. leveraged finance business to expand and scale existing offerings; form a global strategic partnership to seek cross-border M&A opportunities involving Japanese companies; and jointly pursue investment banking, capital markets and financing opportunities by leveraging both companies' respective strengths initially in the U.S. Healthcare sector.

SMBC Group has also provided Jefferies Group with a $350 million unsecured revolving credit facility and has acquired in the open market over 4% of our shares of common stock, further solidifying our relationship. In addition, SMBC Group is providing a subsidiary of JFIN Parent LLC ("Jefferies Finance"), a 50/50 joint venture between Jefferies Group and Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, a $1.65 billion revolving credit facility and a $250 million subordinated loan to help expand Jefferies Finance's leveraged finance origination and underwriting efforts. 

1

In the fourth quarter of 2021, we reduced our future interest expense by repurchasing Jefferies Group's $750 million 5.125% senior notes due in 2023 and $308 million of our 5.50% senior notes due in 2023 and issuing $1.0 billion of new Jefferies Group 2.625% senior notes due in 2031. 

Investment Banking and Capital Markets

Investment Banking and Capital Markets focuses on Investment Banking, Equities and Fixed Income. We primarily serve institutional investors, corporations and government entities.

Investment Banking

We provide our clients around the world with a full range of financial advisory, equity underwriting and debt underwriting services. Our services are enhanced by our deep industry expertise, our global distribution capabilities and our senior level commitment to our clients.

Over 1,200 investment banking professionals operate in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and are organized into industry, product and geographic coverage groups. Our industry coverage groups include Consumer; Energy; Financial Services; Healthcare; Industrials; Technology, Media and Telecommunications; Real Estate, Gaming and Lodging; Financial Sponsors and Public Finance. Our product coverage groups include advisory (which comprises both mergers and acquisitions, and restructuring and recapitalization expertise), equity underwriting and debt underwriting. Our geographic coverage groups include teams based in major cities in the United States ("U.S."), London, Frankfurt, Paris, Milan, Madrid, Warsaw, Amsterdam, Stockholm, Mumbai, Hong Kong, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Zurich.

Advisory Services

We provide mergers/acquisitions, restructurings/recapitalizations and private capital advisory services to companies, financial sponsors and government entities. In the mergers and acquisitions area, we advise business owners and corporations on mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, strategic ventures and corporate defense activities. In the restructuring and recapitalization area, we provide companies, bondholders and lenders a full range of restructuring advisory capabilities as well as expertise in the structuring, valuation and placement of securities issued in recapitalizations. As part of our private capital advisory business, we advise financial sponsors on the creation and structuring of funds and fund offerings, and we also advise large institutional investors on the sale of private equity limited partnership and co-investment interests. 

Equity Underwriting

We provide a broad range of equity financing capabilities to companies and financial sponsors. These capabilities include private placements of equity, initial public offerings, including initial public offerings for special purpose acquisition companies, follow-on offerings, at the market offerings, block trades and equity-linked securities transactions.

Debt Underwriting

We provide a wide range of debt and acquisition financing capabilities to companies, financial sponsors and government entities. We focus on structuring, underwriting and distributing public and private debt, including investment grade debt, high yield bonds, leveraged loans, municipal debt, mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, and liability management solutions.

Corporate Lending

Jefferies Finance, a 50/50 joint venture between Jefferies Group and Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, is a commercial finance company that structures, underwrites and syndicates primarily senior secured loans to corporate borrowers; and manages proprietary and third-party investments for both broadly syndicated and direct lending loans. Jefferies Finance conducts its operations primarily through two business lines, Leveraged Finance Arrangement and Portfolio and Asset Management. Loans are originated primarily through Jefferies Group's investment banking efforts and Jefferies Finance typically syndicates to third-party investors substantially all of its arranged volume through Jefferies Group. The Portfolio and Asset Management business lines, collectively referred to as Jefferies Credit Partners, manages a broad portfolio of assets under management comprised of portions of loans it has arranged, as well as loan positions that it has purchased in the primary and secondary markets. Jefferies Credit Partners is comprised of three registered Investment Advisors: Jefferies Finance, Apex 

2

Credit Partners LLC and JFIN Asset Management LLC, which serve as a private credit platform managing proprietary and third-party capital across comingled funds, separately managed accounts and collateralized loan obligations. 

 Equities

Equities Research, Capital Markets

We provide our clients full-service equities research, sales and trading capabilities across global equities markets. We earn commissions or spread revenue by executing, settling and clearing transactions for clients across these markets in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, American depository receipts, global depository receipts, exchange-traded funds, exchange-traded and over-the-counter ("OTC") equity derivatives, convertible and other equity-linked products and closed-end funds. Our equity research, sales and trading efforts are organized across three geographical regions: the Americas; Europe and the Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific. Our clients are primarily institutional market participants such as mutual funds, hedge funds, investment advisors, pension and profit sharing plans, and insurance companies. Through our global research team and sales force, we maintain relationships with our clients, distribute investment research and insights, trading ideas, market information and analyses across a range of industries and receive and execute client orders. Our equity research covers 2,800 companies around the world and a further more than 600 international companies are covered by our leading co-branded partner firms in local regions.

Equity Finance

Our Equity Finance business provides financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services. We offer prime brokerage services in the U.S. that provide hedge funds, money managers and registered investment advisors with execution, financing, clearing, outsourced trading, reporting and administrative services. We finance our clients' securities positions through margin loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other acceptable liquid collateral. We earn an interest spread equal to the difference between the amount we pay for funds and the amount we receive from our clients. We also operate a matched book in equity and corporate bond securities, whereby we borrow and lend securities versus cash or liquid collateral and earn a net interest spread. We offer selected prime brokerage clients the option of custodying their assets at an unaffiliated U.S. broker-dealer that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company. Under this arrangement, we directly provide our clients with all customary prime brokerage services.

Wealth Management

We provide tailored wealth management services designed to meet the needs of high net worth individuals, their families and their businesses, private equity and venture funds and small institutions. Our advisors provide access to all of our institutional execution capabilities and deliver other financial services. Our open architecture platform affords clients access to products and services from both our firm and from a variety of other major financial services institutions.

Fixed Income

Fixed Income Capital Markets

We provide our clients with sales and trading of investment grade corporate bonds, U.S. and European government and agency securities, municipal bonds, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, leveraged loans, consumer loans, high yield and distressed securities, emerging markets debt, interest rate and credit derivative products, as well as foreign exchange trade execution and securitization capabilities. Jefferies LLC is designated as a Primary Dealer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Jefferies GmbH is designated in similar capacities for several countries in Europe. Additionally, through the use of repurchase agreements, we act as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and obtain funding for various of our inventory positions. We trade and make markets globally in cleared and uncleared swaps and forwards referencing, among other things, interest rates, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, credit indexes and asset-backed security indexes. 

Our strategists and economists provide ongoing commentary and analysis of the global fixed income markets. In addition, our fixed income desk strategists provide ideas and analysis to clients across a variety of fixed income products.

Other

We make principal investments in private equity and hedge funds managed by third-parties as well as, from time to time, take on strategic investment positions.

3

Real Estate

Berkadia Commercial Mortgage Holding LLC ("Berkadia") is Jefferies Group's 50/50 joint venture with Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. that provides capital solutions, investment sales advisory and mortgage servicing for multifamily and commercial real estate. Berkadia originates commercial real estate loans, primarily in respect of multifamily housing units, for the Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae"), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac") and the Federal Housing Authority using their underwriting guidelines and will typically sell the loans to such entities shortly after the loans are funded with Berkadia retaining the mortgage servicing rights. For loans sold to Fannie Mae, Berkadia assumes a shared loss position throughout the term of each loan, with a maximum loss percentage of approximately one-third of the original principal balance. Berkadia also originates and brokers commercial/multifamily mortgage loans, which are not part of the government agency programs. 

In addition, Berkadia originates loans for its own balance sheet. These loans provide interim financing to borrowers who intend to refinance the loan with longer-term loans from an eligible government agency or other third-party. Berkadia also provides services related to the acquisition and disposition of multifamily real estate projects, including brokerage services, asset review, market research, financial analysis and due diligence support and is a servicer of U.S. commercial real estate loans, performing primary, master and special servicing functions for U.S. government agency programs, commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions, banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. 

Asset Management

Under the Leucadia Asset Management ("LAM") umbrella, we manage and provide services to a diverse group of alternative asset management platforms across a spectrum of investment strategies and asset classes. LAM offers institutional clients an innovative range of investment strategies through its affiliated managers. Our products are currently offered to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors globally. The investment products under LAM range from multi-manager products to niche equity long/short strategies to credit strategies. We offer our affiliated asset managers access to capital, operational infrastructure and global marketing and distribution. We often invest seed or additional strategic capital for our own account in the strategies offered by us and associated third-party managers in which we have an interest.

We continue to expand our asset management efforts and establish further strategic relationships to expand our offerings including sector and region specific long/short equity and quantitative strategies.

Merchant Banking

We own a legacy portfolio of businesses and investments that we historically denominated as our "Merchant Banking" business and are reflected in our consolidated results as consolidated subsidiaries, equity investments, securities or in other ways. We are well along in the process of liquidating this portfolio, with the intention of selling to third parties, distributing to shareholders or transferring the balance of this portfolio to our Asset Management reportable segment over the next few years. 

Our remaining Merchant Banking portfolio primarily includes investments in Linkem S.p.A. ("Linkem"), 56% (fixed wireless broadband services in Italy); Vitesse Energy, LLC ("Vitesse Energy"), 97%, and JETX Energy, LLC ("JETX Energy"), 98%, (oil and gas); real estate, primarily HomeFed LLC ("HomeFed"), 100%; Idaho Timber, 100% (manufacturing); and FXCM Group, LLC ("FXCM"), 50% voting interest in FXCM and a majority of all distributions in respect of the equity of FXCM (provider of online foreign exchange trading services). The net book value of our entire Merchant Banking portfolio was $1.85 billion at November 30, 2021. Pro forma for the December 1, 2021 contribution of $194 million Merchant Banking investments to Jefferies Group, our net book value for our Merchant Banking portfolio was $1.66 billion.

Linkem

We own 56% (48% voting) of Linkem, the largest fixed wireless broadband service provider in Italy with approximately 650,000 subscribers. Linkem is upgrading its proprietary fixed wireless network to state-of-the-art 5G technology using its valuable nationwide 3.5GHz spectrum holdings. To improve efficiency, Linkem slowed down customer acquisition before launching 5G services and as a result its customer base declined by approximately 8% in 2021. Its 3.5GHz frequency band has been designated globally as one of the core bands for 5G services, placing Linkem in a strong position to continue its growth as fixed wireless broadband, mobile and new technologies converge on 5G connectivity. Linkem built its first 5G towers in late 2020 and commercially launched service in September 2021. It plans to rapidly increase its network coverage and service offerings over the coming years as it completes the upgrade to 5G, adds subscribers and leverages its network and spectrum assets. Expansion and customer acquisition costs are expected to result in operating losses over the next couple of years.

4

In December 2021, Linkem announced an agreement to merge its customer-facing retail operations into Tiscali S.p.A., a public Italian telecommunications company. If the transaction is completed, Linkem will become the majority shareholder of Tiscali. The combined company would be the fifth-largest broadband operator in Italy, and the largest provider of ultrabroadband fiber-to-the-home and fixed wireless access. Linkem's remaining infrastructure division would own the largest independent 5G network in Italy with an extensive spectrum portfolio offering fixed wireless, mobile, and private network services that support a wide variety of 5G applications to telecom carriers and other enterprise customers.

Our initial investment in Linkem was made in July 2011. Since that time, we have funded much of Linkem's growth and have become its largest shareholder. We own approximately 42% of the common shares of Linkem, as well as convertible preferred stock, which is automatically convertible to common shares in 2026, redeemable preferred stock with a redemption value of $107.6 million at November 30, 2021 and warrants. If our convertible preferred stock was converted and warrants were exercised on November 30, 2021, it would have increased our ownership to approximately 56% of Linkem's common equity. We currently have approximately 48% of the total voting securities of Linkem. The net book value of our investment in Linkem was $133.8 million at November 30, 2021. 

Vitesse Energy

Vitesse Energy is our 97% owned consolidated subsidiary that acquires, invests and monetizes non-operated oil and gas working interests, royalties and minerals predominantly in the Bakken Shale oil field in the Williston Basin in North Dakota. Vitesse Energy's interests in flowing wells and Drilling Spacing Units ("DSUs") are operated by many of the U.S.'s leading operators. The undeveloped acreage within our DSUs is expected to be developed via new horizontal wells in the future by Vitesse Energy's operating partners. As Vitesse Energy's operators convert the undeveloped acreage into flowing horizontal wells, our working interests royalties, and minerals in the new wells produce cash flows via the sale of oil and gas. Vitesse Energy has acquired 47,200 net acres of leaseholds and has an interest in over 5,500 producing wells (120 net wells) with current production as of November 2021 of over 10,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (over 80% of production is oil). Vitesse Energy also has 865 gross wells (19 net wells) that are currently drilling, completing, or permitted for future drilling. Our strategic priorities for Vitesse Energy are to selectively add to our DSUs, participate in future profitable horizontal wells with our operators, increase cash flow, maintain conservative leverage, limit the volatility of cash flows by appropriately hedging a portion of Vitesse Energy's oil production and profitably sell selective assets when appropriate. The net book value of our investment in Vitesse Energy was $501.5 million at November 30, 2021.

Real Estate Assets

Our real estate assets primarily consist of our 100% ownership of HomeFed, a developer and owner of residential and mixed-use real estate properties in California, New York, Florida, Virginia and South Carolina. HomeFed's key assets include Otay Ranch, a master planned community that is under development in Chula Vista, CA, made up of approximately 4,450 acres of land entitled for 13,050 total units; and Renaissance Plaza, a mixed-use asset in Brooklyn, NY, comprised of an office building, garage and hotel. The net book value of our investment in real estate businesses was $476.9 million at November 30, 2021. 

Financial Information about Reportable Segments

Our operating and reportable segments consist of Investment Banking and Capital Markets; Asset Management; Merchant Banking; and Corporate. Our financial information regarding our reportable segments is contained in Note 26 in our consolidated financial statements.

Human Capital

Our people make up the fabric of our firm, which is comprised of diverse and innovative teams. We are focused on the durability, health and long-term growth and development of our business, as well as our long-term contribution to our shareholders, our clients, our employees, the communities in which we live and work, and society in general. Instrumental to all of this is our culture, which derives from our employees.

As of November 30, 2021, we had 5,556 employees located throughout the world. Our primary business and largest subsidiary, Jefferies Group, had 4,508 employees globally with approximately 64.1%, 24.2% and 11.7% of its workforce distributed across the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, respectively. Jefferies Group employees are predominantly in our Investment Banking and Capital Markets reportable segment or the support thereof. During fiscal 2021, Jefferies Group's overall employee count increased by 14.9%, primarily as a result of the growth of our investment banking business, as well as due to additions in technology and other corporate services staff to support our increased regulatory requirements and overall growth.

5

We had 967 employees in our Merchant Banking reportable segment as of November 30, 2021, which were predominantly located in the U.S. The majority of these individuals are employed by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Idaho Timber. As with most manufacturing operations, safety is a key component of the overall process and Idaho Timber has a multitude of safety programs in place designed to protect the health and well-being of its employees. These programs and other employee-focused initiatives help Idaho Timber retain experienced employees who create operating efficiencies critical to our overall success.

Talent Acquisition and Development

In order to compete effectively and continue to provide best in class service to our clients, we must attract, retain, and motivate qualified professionals. Our workforce is predominately composed of employees in roles such as investment bankers, salespeople, trading professionals, research professionals and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. During 2021, within Jefferies Group, we hired over 1,200 professionals globally and our voluntary turnover rate was approximately 12.2%, which makes our overall retention rate very high in our view. We believe our culture, our effort to maintain a meritocracy in terms of opportunity and our continued evolution and growth contribute to our success in attracting and retaining strong talent.

We also value continued training and development for all employees at the firm. We seek to equip our people at all stages in their careers with the tools necessary to become thoughtful and effective leaders. In 2021, we introduced a number of additional development programs including our inaugural Women in Leadership Series, a program focused on providing learning and development opportunities to position our female leaders for success. We also launched a leadership development program sponsored by our Jefferies Black & Latino Network (J-NOBLE) and Jefferies Ethnic Minority Society (JEMS) that is aimed at providing professional development and career advancement training to participants. Additionally, we offered customized training courses centered around Project Management, Communicating with Clarity and Impact, Managing in the New Normal, Finding and Using Your Strengths and Effective Sales Training for our employees.

Wellness

In addition to training and development programs, we have been incredibly focused on the well-being of our employees. We host frequent wellness webinars and offer confidential, 1:1 wellness counseling. To support our employee's physical well-being, we host virtual fitness classes and have partnered with a fitness app our employees can utilize.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

The foundation of our culture is our approach to employee engagement, diversity, equity and inclusion, which is summed up in our Corporate Social Responsibility Principle: Respect People. We embrace diversity and inclusion, which we believe fosters creativity, innovation and thought leadership through the infusion of new ideas and perspectives. We have implemented a number of policies and measures focused on non-discrimination, sexual harassment prevention, health and safety, and training and education. We have strong internal partnerships with eight Employee Resource Groups that are fostering a diverse, inclusive workplace. Our Diversity Council, chaired by Rich Handler, gives our Employee Resource Groups a platform to come together and discuss best practices, as well as collaborate on firmwide diversity initiatives.

In conjunction with the Employee Resource Groups, firmwide Diversity and Inclusion initiatives are focused on open firm-wide dialogues, promotion of allyship and bias mitigation, and providing resources for development and recruiting the best talent from a diverse pool. In 2021, 100% of our Jefferies Group employees participated in Unconscious Bias Training. We have focused on improving the collection and transparency of diversity metrics and the information flow to senior leadership. An inaugural firmwide inclusion-focused employee engagement survey was launched in January 2021 enabling staff to provide feedback on an anonymous basis.

We are focused on broadening the pipeline from which we recruit and hiring diverse talent through both campus and lateral hiring initiatives. For campus recruiting, we have partnered with several organizations globally to broaden our pipeline of candidates. We host insight days and symposiums that describe Jefferies and Investment Banking to candidates that come from a diverse range of backgrounds. In 2021, we hired interns from over 100 colleges, universities, and business schools across the globe. For all roles, we recommend both a diverse slate of candidates to be considered for roles and a diverse panel of interviewers. Interviewing guides and resources are provided to hiring managers in an effort to support inclusive hiring. In 2021, we launched two targeted recruiting programs aimed at diversifying the pipeline of our lateral hires, including a career relaunch program, aimed at those who have taken a break from the workforce, and a job switch program aimed at recruiting individuals who are interested in changing careers into Equity Research.

6

Our Board of Directors has underscored our commitment to diversity by committing to appoint diverse candidates to fill the seats of at least one-third of our independent directors. In July 2021, we appointed two new female directors to our Board of Directors, which resulted in 55.6% of our independent directors being diverse.

Our Board of Directors has established an Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Oversight Committee, which, among other things, oversees the sustainability matters arising from our business. In the beginning of 2021, the Board of Directors expanded the responsibilities of the ESG Committee to also include oversight over diversity and inclusion, and rebranded the Committee as the ESG, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ("ESG/DEI") Committee. Establishing the ESG/DEI Committee demonstrates our and the Board of Director's ongoing commitment of driving and fostering diversity in the workforce and in the communities in which we operate.

We have also made a commitment to building a culture that provides opportunities for all employees regardless of our differences. As a result, we are able to pool our collective insights and intelligence to provide fresh and innovative thinking for our clients.

We encourage you to review our ESG Report (located on our website) for more detailed information regarding our human capital programs and initiatives. Nothing on our website, including our ESG Report or sections thereof, is deemed incorporated by reference into this Report. In addition, for discussion of the risks relating to our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and productive employees, see "Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors."

Employee Benefits

Our benefits are designed to attract and retain employees by providing employees and their spouses, partners and families with health and wellness programs (medical, dental, vision and behavioral), retirement wealth accumulation, paid time off, income replacement (paid sick and disability leaves and life insurance) and family oriented benefits (parental leaves and child care assistance). We also endeavor to provide location specific health club, transportation and employee discounts.

Giving Back to Community

The firm is committed to giving back to our communities. In 2021, we donated $13.2 million to approximately 175 organizations across two "Doing Good" trading days. Additionally, through our Employee Resource Groups, employees have created lasting partnerships by volunteering time to support several of these charitable partners.

Competition

All aspects of our business are intensely competitive. We compete primarily with large global bank holding companies that engage in capital markets activities, but also with other broker-dealers, asset managers and boutique investment banking firms. The large global bank holding companies have substantially greater capital and resources than we do. We believe that the principal factors affecting our competitive standing include the quality, experience and skills of our professionals, the depth of our relationships, the breadth of our service offerings, our ability to deliver consistently our integrated capabilities, and our culture, tenacity and commitment to serve our clients.

7

Regulation

Regulation in the U.S. The financial services industry in which we operate is subject to extensive regulation. In the U.S., the SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of federal securities laws, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") is the federal agency responsible for the administration of laws relating to commodity interests (including futures, commodity options and swaps). In addition, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA") and the National Futures Association ("NFA") are self-regulatory organizations ("SROs") that are actively involved in the regulation of financial services businesses (securities businesses in the case of FINRA and commodities/futures businesses in the case of the NFA). In addition, broker-dealers that conduct securities activities involving municipal securities are subject to regulation by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ("MSRB"). In addition to federal regulation, we are subject to state securities regulations in each state and U.S. territory in which we conduct securities or investment advisory activities. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, NFA and state securities regulators conduct periodic examinations of broker-dealers, investment advisors, futures commission merchants ("FCMs"), swap dealers and security-based swap dealers ("SBS dealers"). The designated examining authority under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") for Jefferies LLC's activities as a broker-dealer is FINRA, and the designated self-regulatory organization under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act for Jefferies LLC's non-clearing FCM activities is the NFA. Financial services businesses are also subject to regulation and examination by state securities regulators and attorneys general in those states in which they do business. In addition, broker-dealers, investment advisors, FCMs, swap dealers and SBS dealers must also comply with the rules and regulation of clearing houses, exchanges, swap execution facilities and trading platforms of which they are a member.

Broker-dealers are subject to SEC, FINRA, MSRB and state securities regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure and requirements, anti-money laundering efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of broker-dealer personnel including officers and employees (although state securities regulations are, in a number of cases, more limited). Registered investment advisors are subject to, among other requirements, SEC regulations concerning marketing, transactions with affiliates, custody of client assets, disclosures to clients, conflict of interest, insider trading and recordkeeping; and investment advisors that are also registered as commodity trading advisors or commodity pool operators are also subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA. FCMs, introducing brokers and swap dealers that engage in commodity options, futures or swap transactions are subject to regulation by the CFTC and the NFA, and SBS dealers are subject to regulation by the SEC. Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA, CFTC, NFA, other SROs of which the broker-dealer is a member, and state securities regulators, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or rules may directly affect the operations and profitability of broker-dealers, investment advisors, FCMs, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators, swap dealers and SBS dealers. The SEC, CFTC, FINRA, NFA, state securities regulators and state attorneys general may conduct administrative proceedings or initiate civil litigation that can result in adverse consequences for Jefferies LLC, its affiliates, including affiliated investment advisors, as well as its and their officers and employees (including, without limitation, injunctions, censures, fines, suspensions, directives that impact business operations (including proposed expansions), membership expulsions, or revocations of licenses and registrations). 

SEC Regulation Best Interest ("Reg BI") requires that a broker-dealer and its associated persons act in a retail customer's best interest and not place their own financial or other interests ahead of a retail customer's interests when recommending securities transactions or investment strategies, including recommendations of types of accounts. To meet this best interest standard, a broker-dealer must satisfy four component obligations including a disclosure obligation, a care obligation, a conflict of interest obligation, and a compliance obligation and both broker-dealers and investment advisors are required to provide disclosures about their standard of conduct and conflicts of interest. 

In addition, certain states, have proposed or adopted measures that would make broker-dealers, sales agents and investment advisors and their representatives subject to a fiduciary duty when providing products and services to customers. The SEC did not indicate an intent to pre-empt state regulation in this area and some of the state proposals would allow for a private right of action. Since our Wealth Management division makes recommendations to retail customers, it is required to comply with the obligations imposed under Reg BI and applicable state laws. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements. Several of our entities are subject to financial capital requirements that are set by regulation. Jefferies LLC is a dually-registered broker-dealer and FCM and is required to maintain net capital in excess of the greater of the SEC or CFTC minimum financial requirements. As a broker-dealer, Jefferies LLC is subject to the SEC's Uniform Net Capital Rule (the "Net Capital Rule"). Jefferies LLC has elected to compute its minimum net capital requirement in accordance with the "Alternative Net Capital Requirement" as permitted by the Net Capital Rule, which provides that a broker-dealer shall not permit its net capital, as defined, to be less than the greater of 2% of its aggregate debit balances (primarily customer-related receivables) or $250,000 ($1.5 million for prime brokers). Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit Jefferies LLC's operations, such as underwriting and trading activities, and financing customers' prime brokerage or other margin activities, in 

8

each case, that could require the use of significant amounts of capital, limit its ability to engage in certain financing transactions, such as repurchase agreements, and may also restrict its ability (i) to make payments of dividends, withdrawals or similar distributions or payments to a stockholder/parent or other affiliate, (ii) to make a redemption or repurchase of shares of stock, or (iii) to make an unsecured loan or advance to such shareholders or affiliates. As a carrying/clearing broker-dealer, under FINRA Rule 4110, FINRA could impose higher minimum net capital requirements than required by the SEC, and could restrict a broker-dealer from expanding business or require the broker-dealer to reduce its business activities. If the broker- dealer also carries accounts for other broker dealers which are engaged in proprietary trading, it may need net capital of $7 million or tentative net capital of $25 million, depending on circumstances. As a non-clearing FCM, Jefferies LLC is also required to maintain minimum adjusted net capital of $1.0 million.

SEC registered broker-dealers that also register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers engaging in principal transactions of security-based swaps ("SBS") are subject to rules regarding capital, segregation and margin requirements. The SEC rules establish similar standards for an entity registering as a standalone SBS dealer. The CFTC and NFA have also adopted swap dealer capital rules. Under the rules there is a minimum net capital requirement for, among others, an entity that acts as a dealer in SBS or swaps, which is the greater of $20 million or 2% (that the SEC could, in the future, increase up to 4% or 8%) of a risk margin amount. The risk margin amount for the SEC means the sum of (i) the total initial margin required to be maintained by the SEC-registered SBS dealer at each clearing house with respect to SBS or swap transactions cleared for SBS or swap customers and (ii) the total initial margin amount calculated by the SEC-registered SBS dealer with respect to non-cleared SBS and swaps under the SEC rules. The risk margin amount for the CFTC means the total initial margin amount calculated by the CFTC-registered swap dealer with respect to non-cleared SBS and swaps under the CFTC rules. 

Jefferies Financial Services, Inc. ("JFSI"), one of Jefferies Group's subsidiaries, is registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer and registered with the SEC as an SBS. As of late 2021, JFSI is now required to comply with the SEC and CFTC capital rules for SBS dealers and swap dealers, respectively. Further, subsequent to year end, on December 16, 2021, JFSI was approved by the SEC as an OTC derivatives dealer, and is subject to compliance with the SEC's net capital requirements.

Under the Exchange Act, state securities regulators are not permitted to impose capital, margin, custody, financial responsibility, making and keeping records, bonding, or financial or operational reporting requirements on registered broker-dealers that differ from, or are in addition to, the requirements in those areas established under the Exchange Act, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Jefferies Group LLC is not subject to any regulatory capital rules.

See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of net capital calculations.

Regulation outside the U.S. We are an active participant in the international capital markets and provide investment banking services internationally, primarily in Europe and Asia Pacific. As in the U.S., our international subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations proposed, promulgated and enforced by, among other regulatory bodies, the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities (including the European Banking Authority and European Securities and Market Authority), U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority ("BaFin"), Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada, Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Japan Financial Services Agency, the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. Every country in which we do business imposes upon us laws, rules and regulations similar to those in the U.S., including with respect to some form of capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, data protection regulations, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery rules, compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations and similar regulatory reform. 

Information about Jefferies on the Internet

We file annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the SEC. These SEC filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and the EDGAR website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The following documents and reports are available on or through our website (www.jefferies.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish to, the SEC, as applicable:

• Code of Business Practice;

• Reportable waivers, if any, from our Code of Business Practice by our executive officers;

9

• Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines;

• Charter of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors;

• Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors;

• Charter of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors;

• Charter of the ESG, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee of the Board of Directors;

• Charter of the Risk and Liquidity Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors;

• Annual reports on Form 10-K;

• Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q;

• Current reports on Form 8-K;

• Beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5; and

• Any amendments to the above-mentioned documents and reports.

Shareholders may also obtain a printed copy of any of these documents or reports free of charge by sending a request to Jefferies Financial Group Inc., Investor Relations, 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 or by calling (212) 460-1900.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.