PART II

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk

Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in factors such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates is limited. Management monitors risk exposures on an ongoing basis and establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. 

Foreign currency and interest rate exposures are managed through our risk management activities, which are discussed further in Note 23 (Derivative and Hedging Instruments) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. 

Foreign Exchange Risk

We enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage currency exposure associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements occurring in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. We may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value of assets and liabilities due to foreign exchange fluctuations. The objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional currencies, principally the U.S. dollar and euro. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the value of the functional currencies could result in a fair value loss of approximately $70 million and $58 million on our foreign exchange derivative contracts outstanding at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, before considering the offsetting effect of the underlying hedged activity. 

We are also subject to foreign exchange risk as part of our daily settlement activities. To manage this risk, we enter into short duration foreign exchange contracts based upon anticipated receipts and disbursements for the respective currency position. This risk is typically limited to a few days between when a payment transaction takes place and the subsequent settlement with our customers. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the value of the functional currencies could result in a fair value loss of approximately $1 million and $23 million on our short duration foreign exchange derivative contracts outstanding at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

We are further exposed to foreign exchange rate risk related to translation of our foreign operating results where the functional currency is different than our U.S. dollar reporting currency. To manage this risk, we may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the value of the U.S. dollar could result in a fair value loss of approximately $165 million on our foreign exchange derivative contracts designated as a net investment hedge at December 31, 2021, before considering the offsetting effect of the underlying hedged activity. We did not have similar foreign exchange derivative contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2020.

Interest Rate Risk

Our available-for-sale debt investments include fixed and variable rate securities that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Our policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact to the fair value of our investments at December 31, 2021 and 2020. 

We are also exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-rate debt. To manage this risk, we may enter into interest rate derivative contracts to hedge a portion of our fixed-rate debt that is exposed to changes in fair value attributable to changes in a benchmark interest rate. The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates could result in a fair value loss of $49 million on our interest rate derivative contracts designated as a fair value hedge of our fixed-rate debt at December 31, 2021, before considering the offsetting effect of the underlying hedged activity. We did not have similar interest rate derivative contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2020.

58 MASTERCARD 2021 FORM 10-K

PART II

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA