Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Market Risk Factors 

Changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: Funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and AFS securities. Corporate investments are primarily comprised of AFS securities. As a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. Changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term AFS securities. We follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. A substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with ratings of AA or higher, and A-1/P-1 ratings on short-term securities. We invest predominately in municipal bonds; corporate bonds; U.S. government agency securities; and VRDNs. We limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest primarily in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. We manage the AFS securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. 

During fiscal 2022, our primary short-term investment vehicles were bank demand deposit accounts and VRDNs. We have no exposure to high-risk or non-liquid investments. We have insignificant exposure to European investments. We have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. 

During fiscal 2022, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investment portfolios was 1.1%, compared to 1.2% for fiscal 2021. When interest rates are rising, the full impact of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. During a rising interest rate environment, earnings will increase from our short-term investments, and over time, will increase from our longer-term AFS securities. Earnings from the AFS securities, which as of May 31, 2022 had an average duration of 3.2 years, would not reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates.  

The amortized cost and fair value of AFS securities that had stated maturities as of May 31, 2022 are shown below by expected maturity. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

VRDNs are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. Although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. 

As of May 31, 2022 and 2021, the Federal Funds rate was in the range of 0.75% to 1.00% and in the range of 0.00% to 0.25%, respectively. Effective June 16, 2022, the Federal Reserve raised the Federal Funds rate 0.75% to a range of 1.50% to 1.75%. There continues to be uncertainty in the changing market and economic conditions, including the possibility of additional measures that could be taken by the Federal Reserve and other government agencies related to the concerns over inflation risk. We will continue to monitor market conditions. 

Calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. These factors include, but are not limited to: 

•

governmental action to address inflation; 

•

daily interest rate changes; 

•

seasonal variations in investment balances; 

36 

Table of Contents 

•

actual duration of short-term and AFS securities; 

•

the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments; 

•

changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and 

•

financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. 

Subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. Under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be approximately $4.5 million to $5.0 million, after taxes, for a twelve-month period. Such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the Federal Funds rate. 

Our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investments) averaged approximately $5.7 billion for fiscal 2022. Our anticipated allocation is approximately 50% invested in short-term securities and VRDNs with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 50% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years.  

The combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected net unrealized losses of $136.3 million and net unrealized gains of $79.3 million as of May 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to Note G of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional disclosures on fair value measurements. 

During fiscal 2022, the net unrealized loss or gain on our investment portfolios ranged from a $156.3 million net unrealized loss to a $89.2 million net unrealized gain. During fiscal 2021, the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $62.7 million to $121.9 million. The net unrealized loss on our investment portfolios was approximately $153.7 million as of July 13, 2022. 

As of May 31, 2022 and 2021, we had $4.0 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, invested in AFS securities at fair value. The weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 1.9% as of May 31, 2022 and 2021. The weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes AFS securities tied to short-term interest rates, such as VRDNs. Assuming a hypothetical increase in longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for our portfolio of AFS securities as of May 31, 2022, would be in the range of $20.0 million to $25.0 million. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. This hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio’s recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders’ equity. These fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on our results of operations unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. 

Credit risk: We are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. We regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is impaired due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns and we believe that the investments we held as of May 31, 2022 were not impaired as a result of the previously discussed reasons. While $2.3 billion of our AFS securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the gross unrealized losses of $139.0 million were due to changes in interest rates and were not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. Most of the AFS securities in an unrealized loss position as of May 31, 2022 and 2021 held an AA rating or better. We do not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. Our assessment that an investment is not impaired due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns could change in the future due to new developments, including changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. 

We have some credit risk exposure relating to the purchase of accounts receivable as a means of providing payroll funding to clients in the temporary staffing industry. There is also credit risk exposure relating to the Company’s trade accounts receivable. These credit risk exposures are diversified amongst multiple client arrangements and all such arrangements are regularly reviewed for potential write-off. No single client is material in respect to total accounts receivable, service revenue, or results of operations.  

37 

Table of Contents 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data