ITEM 7A.  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. 

Currencies are presented in millions for the market risks and derivative instruments sections below. 

Interest-Rate Risks - See Note P for a description of the Company’s hedging programs and exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The Company measures its interest-rate risk by estimating the amount by which the fair value of interest-rate sensitive assets and liabilities, including derivative financial instruments, would change assuming an immediate 100 basis point increase across the yield curve as shown in the following table: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Currency Risks - The Company enters into foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations of foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso (see Note P for additional information concerning these hedges). Based on the Company’s sensitivity analysis, the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% unfavorable change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be a loss of $210.8 related to contracts outstanding at December 31, 2021, compared to a loss of $155.2 at December 31, 2020. These amounts would be largely offset by changes in the values of the underlying hedged exposures. 

Commodity Price Risks - The Company enters into commodity forward contracts to hedge the prices of certain commodities used in the production of trucks (see Note P for additional information concerning these hedges). The objective is to reduce the fluctuation in earnings and cash flows associated with adverse movement in commodity prices. Based on the Company’s sensitivity analysis, the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% unfavorable change in quoted commodity prices would be a loss of $18.4 related to contracts outstanding at December 31, 2021. These amounts would be largely offset by changes in the values of the underlying hedged exposures. 

2021, 

31 

ITEM 8.