Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We have exposure to several types of market risk: changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices.

We manage our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We use foreign currency exchange derivative contracts to manage short-term foreign currency risk.

The objective of our policies is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and fair value exposures resulting from possible future adverse fluctuations in rates. We evaluate our exposure to market risk by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. This evaluation includes the review of leading market indicators, discussions with financial analysts and investment bankers regarding current and future economic conditions and the review of market projections as to expected future rates. We utilize this information to determine our own investment strategies as well as to determine if the use of derivative financial instruments is appropriate to mitigate any potential future market exposure that we may face. Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures. We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. To the extent that changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates affect general economic conditions, we would also be affected by such changes.

At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our debt was $11.1 billion and $12.2 billion, respectively. We estimate that the fair value of such debt was approximately $12.1 billion and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The estimated fair value of our debt in excess of the outstanding principal amount at December 31, 2021 and 2020 primarily relates to the conversion premium on the Convertible Senior Notes and the outstanding Senior Notes issued in April 2020. Excluding the effect on the fair value of our convertible senior notes, a hypothetical 100 basis point (1.0%) decrease in interest rates would have resulted in an increase in the estimated fair value of our other debt of approximately $401 million and $544 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our convertible senior notes are more sensitive to the equity market price volatility of our shares than changes in interest rates. The fair value of the convertible senior notes will likely increase as the market price of our shares increases and will likely decrease as the market price of our shares falls. 

Our businesses outside of the U.S. represent a substantial majority of our financial results. Therefore, because we report our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results and the financial condition of our businesses outside of the U.S. are translated from local currencies (principally Euros and British Pounds Sterling) into U.S. Dollars. If the U.S. Dollar weakens against the local currencies, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income. Similarly, our net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses and net income will decrease if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against the local currencies. For example, total revenues from our businesses outside of the U.S. increased by 58% in 2021 as compared to 2020, but without the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, increased year-over-year on a constant-currency basis by approximately 57%. Since our expenses are generally denominated in foreign currencies on a basis similar to our revenues, our operating margins have not been significantly impacted by currency fluctuations. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency, result in gains and losses that are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We have a significant investment that is denominated in Hong Kong Dollars and the related impact from the movements in foreign currency exchange rates is recognized in "Other income (expense), net" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

We designate certain portions of the aggregate principal value of our Euro-denominated debt as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of the net investment in certain Euro functional currency subsidiaries. The foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the Euro-denominated debt that is not designated as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes are recognized in "Other income (expense), net" in our Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Such foreign currency transaction gains or losses are dependent on the amount of net assets of the Euro functional currency subsidiaries, the amount of the Euro-denominated debt that is designated as a hedge and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

60

We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our transactional balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. We will continue to evaluate the use of derivative instruments in the future. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our derivative contracts. 

We are exposed to equity price risk as it relates to changes in fair values of our investments in equity securities of publicly-traded companies and private companies. We recorded net losses of $569 million and net gains of $1.8 billion and $745 million related to these equity securities for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively (see Notes 5 and 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). The estimated fair values of our investments in equity securities of publicly-traded companies and private companies, excluding investments classified as debt securities for accounting purposes, were $2.9 billion and $325 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021, and $3.1 billion and $455 million, respectively, at December 31, 2020. Our investments in private companies, excluding investments classified as debt securities for accounting purposes, are measured at cost less impairment, if any. Such investments are also required to be measured at fair value as of the date of certain observable transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair values at December 31, 2021 and 2020 of our investments in equity securities of publicly-traded companies and private companies would have resulted in a loss, before tax, of approximately $320 million and $355 million, respectively, being recognized in net income. As of February 22, 2022, the market prices of Meituan's shares, DiDi's ADSs, and Grab's shares decreased by 24%, 15%, and 27%, respectively, as compared to their respective market prices on December 31, 2021.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data