ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Foreign Exchange Risk

We are a global company with operations primarily throughout North America, Europe, Australia, and Mexico. We transact business in each location's local currency and in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposures to changes in exchange rates. Our largest exposure is the movement of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro. In addition, our U.S. operations continue to expand their export business, primarily in Canada, China, and Europe, and are subject to fluctuations in the respective exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. 

Due to different sales and cost structures, certain segments experience a negative impact and certain segments a positive impact as a result of changes in exchange rates. We estimate the translation effect of a ten percent devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to the other foreign currencies in which we transact business would have increased operating income of our non-U.S. operating units by approximately $33.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. This sensitivity analysis has inherent limitations. The analysis disregards the possibility that rates of multiple foreign currencies will not always move in the same direction relative to the value of the U.S. dollar over time and does not account for foreign exchange derivatives that we utilize to mitigate fluctuations in exchange rates.

In addition, we enter into certain purchase commitments for materials that, although denominated in U.S. dollars, are linked to foreign currency valuations. These commitments generally contain a range for which the price of materials may fluctuate over time given the value of a foreign currency.

The translation of the assets and liabilities of our non-U.S. dollar denominated operations is made using local currency exchange rates as of the end of the year. Translation adjustments are not included in determining net income but are disclosed in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") within shareholders’ equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheets until a sale or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the subsidiary takes place. In certain markets, we could recognize a significant gain or loss related to unrealized cumulative translation adjustments if we were to exit the market and liquidate our net investment. As of December 31, 2021, cumulative net currency translation adjustments increased shareholders’ equity by $67.4 million.

We are also subject to currency exchange risk related to the euro-denominated purchase price for our planned acquisition of HRA Pharma for €1.8 billion. In September 2021, we entered into two non-designated currency option contracts to hedge the foreign currency exposure of the euro-denominated purchase price for HRA Pharma for a total notional value of $1.1 billion that will mature in the third quarter of 2022. 

We monitor and strive to manage risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. Exposures that cannot be naturally offset within a local entity to an immaterial amount are often hedged with foreign exchange derivatives or netted with offsetting exposures at other entities. We cannot predict future changes in foreign currency movements and fluctuations that could materially impact earnings.

Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of interest income earned on our investment of cash on hand and interest expense on borrowings. We have in the past, and may in the future, enter into certain derivative financial instruments related to the management of interest rate risk, when available on a cost-effective basis. These instruments are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets. Gains and losses on hedging transactions are offset by gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 

Inflation Risk

Inflationary factors such as increases in the cost of our products and overhead costs may adversely affect our operating results. A high rate of inflation in the future may have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain current levels of gross margin and selling and administration expenses if the selling prices of our products do not increase with these increased costs.

Refer to Item 8. Note 11 and Note 1 for further information regarding our derivative instruments and hedging activities.

77

Perrigo Company plc - Item 8

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA