PART IIITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURESTable of Contents

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As a result of our global operating, investment, acquisition, divestiture, and financing activities, we are exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, and equity prices. To manage the volatility relating to these risks, we periodically purchase and/or sell derivative instruments including foreign currency forward and option contracts, commodity swap contracts, interest rate swap contracts, treasury lock contracts, and swap lock contracts. We use derivative instruments to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from shifts in market rates, as well as to hedge economic exposures. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

Foreign currency and commodity price risk

Foreign currency derivative instruments are or may be used to hedge existing foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated sales/purchases to/from third parties as well as intercompany sales/purchases, intercompany principal and interest payments, and in connection with investments, acquisitions, or divestitures outside the U.S. As of February 28, 2022, we had exposures to foreign currency risk primarily related to the Mexican peso, euro, Canadian dollar, and New Zealand dollar. Approximately 100% of our balance sheet exposures and 72% of our forecasted transactional exposures for the year ending February 28, 2023, were hedged as of February 28, 2022.

Commodity derivative instruments are or may be used to hedge forecasted commodity purchases from third parties as either economic hedges or accounting hedges. As of February 28, 2022, exposures to commodity price risk which we are currently hedging include aluminum, corn, diesel fuel, and natural gas prices. Approximately 69% of our forecasted transactional exposures for the year ending February 28, 2023, were hedged as of February 28, 2022.

We have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of foreign exchange rates and commodity prices reflecting the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the applicable market. The volatility of the applicable rates and prices is dependent on many factors which cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy. Gains or losses from the revaluation or settlement of the related underlying positions would substantially offset such gains or losses on the derivative instruments. The aggregate notional value, estimated fair value, and sensitivity analysis for our open foreign currency and commodity derivative instruments are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest rate risk

The estimated fair value of our fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk, credit risk, and foreign currency risk. In addition, we also have variable interest rate debt outstanding (primarily LIBOR-based), certain of which includes a fixed margin subject to the same risks identified for our fixed interest rate debt.

As of February 28, 2022, we had a $100.0 million outstanding cash flow designated swap lock agreement which our fixed 10-year interest rates to minimize interest rate volatility on our future debt issuances. We had no other outstanding cash flow designated or undesignated interest rate swap contracts, treasury lock contracts, or swap lock contracts outstanding as of February 28, 2022, and February 28, 2021.

Constellation Brands, Inc. FY 2022 Form 10-K#WORTHREACHINGFOR  I 56

PART IIITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURESTable of Contents

We have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of interest rates reflecting the impact of a hypothetical 1% increase in the prevailing interest rates. The volatility of the applicable rates is dependent on many factors which cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy.

The aggregate notional value, estimated fair value, and sensitivity analysis for our outstanding fixed-rate debt, including current maturities and open interest rate derivative instruments, are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A 1% hypothetical change in the prevailing interest rates would have increased interest expense on our variable interest rate debt by $4.6 million and $12.4 million for the years ended February 28, 2022, and February 28, 2021, respectively.

Equity price risk

The estimated fair value of our investment in the November 2018 Canopy Warrants and the Canopy Debt Securities are subject to equity price risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, and foreign currency risk. This investment is recognized at fair value utilizing various option-pricing models and has the potential to fluctuate from, among other items, changes in the quoted market price of the underlying equity security. We manage our equity price risk exposure by closely monitoring the financial condition, performance, and outlook of Canopy.

As of February 28, 2022, the fair value of our investment in the November 2018 Canopy Warrants and the Canopy Debt Securities was $182.9 million, with an unrealized net gain (loss) on this investment of $(1,644.7) million recognized in our results of operations for the year ended February 28, 2022. We have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of the equity price reflecting the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the quoted market price of the underlying equity security. As of February 28, 2022, such a hypothetical 10% adverse change would have resulted in a decrease in fair value of $10.0 million.

For additional discussion on our market risk, refer to Notes 6 and 7.

Constellation Brands, Inc. FY 2022 Form 10-K#WORTHREACHINGFOR  I 57

PART IIITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATATable of Contents