Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Market Risk Management  

Market risk refers to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in stock prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to market risks primarily due to our international operations, our ongoing investment and financial activities, as well as changes in economic conditions in all significant markets in which we operate which has been heightened during the COVID-19 pandemic. The risk of loss can be assessed from the perspective of adverse changes in our future earnings, cash flows, fair values of our assets, and financial condition. Our exposure to market risk, at any point in time, may include risk, including to any borrowings under our Credit Facility, or outstanding debt related to our 2025 Senior Notes and 2026 Senior Notes, derivative instruments, capped calls, cash and cash equivalents, short term and long term marketable securities, if any, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables/payables, accounts payable, deferred merchant payables and other balances and transactions denominated in foreign currencies. We have established policies, procedures and internal processes governing our management of market risks and the use of financial instruments to manage and attempt to mitigate our exposure to such risks.  

For a discussion of market conditions and impacts on our financials resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, refer to Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors”, Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Note 1: Organization and Business Description” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Interest Rates  

Our primary exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash, cash equivalents, investment portfolio at any point in time, 2025 and 2026 Senior Notes, and borrowings, if any, under our existing Credit Facility.  

Changes in interest rates affect the amount of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, if any, and the fair value of those securities. Our interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in U.S. and LIBOR interest rates. We generally invest our excess cash in bank deposits at major global  

53 

banks, money market funds, and marketable securities. Our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. We invest in highly-rated securities, and our investment policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investment policy requires our investments to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss.  

As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, we had no outstanding cash equivalents or marketable securities in our investment portfolio, and no outstanding borrowings under our Credit Facility. In July 2020, we issued 2025 Senior Notes with a principal balance of $500 million at a fixed rate of 7.0% and in March 2021, we issued 2026 Senior Notes with a principal balance of $345 million at a fixed rate of 0.25%. As of December 31, 2021, the fair value of our 2025 Senior Notes and 2026 Senior Notes were approximately $531 million and $305 million, respectively, based on recently reported market transactions and prices for identical or similar financial instruments obtained from a third-party pricing source. Since our 2025 Senior Notes and 2026 Senior Notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we are more sensitive to the equity market price volatility of our shares than changes in interest rates. The fair value of the 2025 Senior Notes and 2026 Senior Notes will likely change when the market price of our stock fluctuates. 

Refer to “Note 5: Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” and “Note 10: Debt” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our cash and cash equivalents, investments and other financial instruments, 2026 Senior Notes, 2025 Senior Notes and our Credit Facility. 

We currently do not hedge our interest rate risk; however, we are continually evaluating the interest rate market, and if we become increasingly exposed to potentially volatile movements in interest rates, and if these movements are material, this could cause us to adjust our financing strategy. We did not experience material changes in interest rate exposures or any material financial impact from adverse changes in interest rates for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 or 2019.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates  

We conduct business in certain international markets, largely in the Europe, including the U.K., and also in countries such as Singapore and Australia. Because we operate in international markets, we have exposure to different economic climates, political arenas, tax systems and regulations that could affect foreign currency exchange rates.  

Some of our subsidiaries maintain their accounting records in their respective local currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact the translation of those subsidiary’s financial statements into U.S. dollars. As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as the financial results of our non-U.S. dollar operations are translated from local currency, or functional currency, into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the functional currency, the translation of these foreign currency denominated balances will result in increased net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income upon consolidation. Similarly, our net assets, revenue, operating expenses, operating income and net income will decrease upon consolidation if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the functional currency. The effect of foreign currency exchange on our business historically has varied from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so, potentially materially. In order to provide a meaningful assessment of the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our consolidated financial statements, we performed a sensitivity analysis. A hypothetical 10% decrease of the foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, or strengthening of the U.S. dollar, would generate an estimated unrealized loss of approximately $44 million related to a decrease in our net assets as of December 31, 2021, which would initially be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheet.  

In addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in transactional gains and losses. We recognize these transactional gains and losses (primarily Euro and British pound currency transactions) in our consolidated statement of operations and have recorded net foreign currency exchange losses of $6 million and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2019, respectively, and a net foreign currency exchange gain of $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, in “other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Future transactional gains and  

54 

losses are inherently difficult to predict as they are reliant on how the multiple currencies in which we transact fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar and other functional currencies, and the relative composition and denomination of monetary assets and liabilities each period. 

We manage our exposure to foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures. To the extent practicable, we minimize our foreign currency exposures by maintaining natural hedges between our current assets and current liabilities in similarly denominated foreign currencies, as well as, using derivative financial instruments. We use foreign currency forward exchange contracts (“forward contracts”) to manage certain short-term foreign currency risk to try and reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates on our cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. Our objective is to hedge only those foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified and that may result in significant impacts to our cash or the consolidated statement of operations. Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.  

The forward contracts which we have entered into to date, have principally addressed foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk between the Euro and the U.S. dollar. We account for these forward contacts, which have not been designated as hedges under GAAP to date, as either assets or liabilities and carry them at fair value. We had outstanding forward contracts as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, with a total net notional value of $9 million and $3 million, respectively. These forward contracts were not designated as hedges and had maturities of less than 90 days. We recognize gains and losses from forward contracts in our consolidated statement of operations and recorded net gains of $2 million, $1 million, and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, in other income (expense), net on our consolidated statements of operations. Refer to “Note 5: Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further detail on our derivative instruments.  

We expect that we will increase our operations internationally as, or when, COVID-19 restrictions are fully lifted and as international markets continue to reopen. Our exposure to potentially volatile movements in foreign currency exchange rates will increase as we begin to increase our operations in these international markets. The economic impact to us of foreign currency exchange rate movements is linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions, and other factors. These changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our foreign currency risk strategies. For example, Brexit (pursuant to which the United Kingdom ceased to be a member of the European Union) has caused volatility in currency exchange rates, including between the U.S. dollar and the British pound. Although, the U.K. and E.U. finalized the terms of the departure on December 24, 2020, certain decisions still need to be made on financial services, among others, and disputes may lead to tariffs being imposed on some goods in the future. Continued uncertainty regarding our international operations and U.K. and E.U. relations may result in future currency exchange rate volatility which may impact our business and results of operations. 

55 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data