ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Market risk is the potential economic loss arising from adverse changes in market factors. Our exposure to financial market risks results primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. Aggregate risk exposures are monitored on an ongoing basis. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We are exposed to risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that are primarily related to changes in the functional currency value of revenues generated from foreign currency-denominated transactions and changes in the functional currency value of payments in foreign currencies. We manage these risks by entering into foreign currency forward contracts that hedge exposures of the variability in the functional currency equivalent of anticipated non-functional currency denominated cash flows. Our foreign currency exchange rate risk management program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. 

At September 30, 2022 and 2021, the aggregate notional amounts of our foreign currency forward contracts outstanding in our exchange rate risk management program, including contracts not designated for cash flow hedge accounting, were $3.4 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. The aggregate notional amount outstanding at September 30, 2022 is fully consistent with our strategy and treasury policy aimed at reducing foreign exchange risk below a predetermined and approved threshold. However, actual results could materially differ from our forecast. At September 30, 2022, the effect of a hypothetical 10% weakening in the value of the functional currencies is estimated to create an additional fair value loss of approximately $220 million on our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts. The loss from this hypothetical weakening would be largely offset by a corresponding gain on our cash flows from foreign currency-denominated revenues and payments. See Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 13—Derivative and Non-derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report.

We are further exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk related to translation as the functional currency of Visa Europe is the Euro. Translation from the Euro to the U.S. dollar is performed for balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and for revenue and expense accounts using an average exchange rate for the period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets. A hypothetical 10% change in the Euro against the U.S. dollar compared to the exchange rate at September 30, 2022 would result in a foreign currency translation adjustment of $1.8 billion.

We designated a portion of our Euro-denominated senior notes as a net investment hedge against a portion of the foreign exchange rate exposure of our net investment in Visa Europe as of September 30, 2022. Changes in the value of the designated portion of the Euro-denominated senior notes, attributable to the change in exchange rates at the end of each reporting period, partially offset the foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from the Euro-denominated net investment, are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. See Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 13—Derivative and Non-derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report.

We are also subject to foreign currency exchange risk in daily settlement activities. This risk arises from the timing of rate setting for settlement with clients relative to the timing of market trades for balancing currency positions. Risk in settlement activities is limited through daily operating procedures, including the utilization of Visa settlement systems and our interaction with foreign exchange trading counterparties.

46
Interest Rate Risk

Our investment portfolio assets are held in both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate securities. Investments in fixed-rate instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. The fair value of fixed-rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. Additionally, a falling-rate environment creates reinvestment risk because as securities mature, the proceeds are reinvested at a lower rate, generating less interest income.

At September 30, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of our fixed-rate investment securities were $5.3 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively, and the fair value of our adjustable-rate investment securities were not material and $0.2 billion, respectively. At September 30, 2022, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would create an estimated decrease in the fair value of our investment securities of approximately $47 million. Any realized gains or losses resulting from such interest rate changes would only occur if we sold the investments prior to maturity. Historically, we have been able to hold investments until maturity. 

We have interest rate and cross-currency swap agreements on a portion of our outstanding senior notes that allow us to manage our interest rate exposure through a combination of fixed and floating rates and reduce our overall cost of borrowing. Together these swap agreements effectively convert a portion of our U.S. dollar denominated fixed-rate payments into U.S. dollar and Euro denominated floating-rate payments. By entering into interest rate swaps, we have assumed risks associated with market interest rate fluctuations. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an increase of approximately $40 million in annual interest expense. See Note 13—Derivative and Non-derivative Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report.

Equity Investment Risk

Our equity investments are held in both marketable and non-marketable equity securities. The marketable equity securities are publicly traded stocks and the non-marketable equity securities are investments in privately held companies.

As of September 30, 2022 and 2021, the carrying value of our marketable equity securities was $291 million and $323 million, respectively. These securities are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings.

As of September 30, 2022 and 2021, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities was $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. These investments are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the carrying value of our holdings. A decline in financial condition or operating results of these investments could result in a loss of all or a substantial part of our carrying value in these companies. We regularly review our non-marketable equity securities for possible impairment, which generally involves an analysis of the facts and changes in circumstances influencing the investment, expectations of the entity’s cash flows and capital needs, and the viability of its business model.

Pension Plan Risk

At September 30, 2022 and 2021, our U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets were $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and projected benefit obligations were $0.7 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. A material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or in the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plans, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. As of September 30, 2022, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $150 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $32 million in pension cost.

At September 30, 2022 and 2021, our non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets were $0.3 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively, and projected benefit obligations were $0.3 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. A material adverse decline in the value of pension plan assets and/or in the discount rate for benefit obligations would result in a decrease in the funded status of the pension plans, an increase in pension cost and an increase in required funding. As of September 30, 2022, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of pension plan assets and a 1% decrease in the discount rate would result in an aggregate decrease of approximately $82 million in the funded status and an increase of approximately $11 million in pension cost.

We will continue to monitor the performance of pension plan assets and market conditions as we evaluate the amount of our contribution to the pension plans for fiscal 2023, if any, which would be made in September 2023.

47
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data