Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk     

Interest Rate Risk 

We are exposed to market risk from fluctuations in interest rates. At December 31, 2021, we had borrowings outstanding under our credit facility of $610.0 million. A total of $130.0 million of this outstanding balance has been paid in the first three weeks post year end. The borrowings bear interest at variable rates based on LIBOR plus 1.0% to 1.625% depending on the public debt rating defined in the credit agreement. The current margin is 1.25% as a result of the current public debt rating. A change in interest rates on variable rate debt impacts our pre-tax income and cash flows, but does not impact the fair value of the instruments. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 2021, a one percent change in interest rate would result in a change in annual pre-tax interest expense of approximately $6.1 million based on our current borrowing levels. 

We have started to consider the implications of the transition of LIBOR to alternative reference rate measures that will likely become effective post December 2021. We believe that there is still some uncertainty over what these rates will be but one possibility for U.S. dollar LIBOR would be the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"). As this decision has not been finalized at the time of amending our Credit Facility agreement, there is no definitive alternative rate proposed in the current contract. We are, however, reviewing the potential impact on the application of this rate on our interest expense once it becomes applicable. As our only current contract extending beyond 2021, that is subject to the LIBOR rate is the Credit Facility, the impact will be dependent on what the outstanding borrowing amount is on the Credit Facility and the relevant interest rate that will be contractually applicable. Should we amend our Credit Facility to reflect SOFR, based on recent borrowings and applicable SOFR, we do not anticipate to have a material impact on the business. 

Foreign Currency Risk 

Our foreign-based businesses and results of operations are exposed to movements in the U.S. dollar to British pounds and other foreign currency exchange rates. A portion of our revenue is denominated in British pounds and other foreign currencies. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against British pounds and other foreign currencies, our revenues reported in U.S. dollars would decline. With regard to operating expense, our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange risk relates to operating expense incurred in British pounds and other foreign currencies. If British pounds and other foreign currencies strengthen, costs reported in U.S. dollars will increase. Movements in the U.S. dollar to British pounds and other foreign currency exchange rates did not have a material effect on our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021. A hypothetical ten percent change in average exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar would not have resulted in a material change to our earnings. 

  Item 8.   Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data