ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

As part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. The investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital. None of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. We do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio.

Interest Rate Risk

We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the U.S. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. These investments are denominated in U.S. Dollars. All of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate, including potential fluctuations as a result of COVID-19. Substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. Due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have material exposure to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1%, the fair value of our investment portfolio would increase or decrease by an immaterial amount.

We entered into a credit agreement in each of 2020 and 2019. Loans under these credit agreements bear interest, at our option, at either a base rate or a Eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin based on our consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of our total consolidated funded indebtedness to our consolidated EBITDA for the most recently completed four fiscal quarter period). Pursuant to the credit agreement that we entered into in 2019, the applicable margin on base rate loans ranges from 0.125% to 0.500% and the applicable margin on Eurocurrency loans ranges from 1.125% to 1.500%. Pursuant to the credit agreement that we entered into in 2020, the applicable margin on base rate loans ranges from 0.500% to 0.875% and the applicable margin on Eurocurrency loans ranges from 1.500% to 1.875%. We do not believe that changes in interest rates related to either credit agreement would have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2021, we had no principal or interest outstanding under either of our existing credit facilities. A portion of our “Interest expense” in 2022 will be dependent on whether, and to what extent, we borrow amounts under these existing facilities. 

Foreign Exchange Market Risk

As a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Euro and British Pound against the U.S. Dollar. Fluctuations in the global markets, including as a result of COVID-19, may have a positive or negative effect on our foreign exchange rate exposure. The current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables and payables, payables and accruals and inventories. Both positive and negative effects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite effect that exchange rates have on our international operating costs and expenses.

We have a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. We currently have cash flow hedges for the Euro, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Swiss Franc and Australian Dollar related to a portion of our forecasted product revenues that qualify for hedge accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. We do not seek hedge accounting treatment for our foreign currency forward contracts related to monetary assets and liabilities that impact our operating results. As of December 31, 2021, we held foreign exchange forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges with notional amounts totaling $1.9 billion representing a net fair value of $38.2 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet.

Although not predictive in nature, we believe a hypothetical 10% threshold reflects a reasonably possible near-term change in exchange rates. If the December 31, 2021 exchange rates were to change by a hypothetical 10%, the fair value recorded on our consolidated balance sheet related to our foreign exchange forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges as of December 31, 2021 would change by approximately $189.3 million. However, since these contracts hedge a specific portion of our forecasted product revenues denominated in certain foreign currencies, any change in the fair value of these contracts is recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” on our consolidated balance sheet and is reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying product revenues affect earnings. Therefore, any change in the fair value of these contracts that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in exchange rates would be entirely offset by the change in value associated with the underlying hedged product revenues resulting in no impact on our future anticipated earnings and cash flows with respect to the hedged portion of our forecasted product revenues. 

77

Equity Price Risk

Information required by this section is incorporated by reference from the discussion in the “Strategic Investments” section of this Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA