xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?   8-K    

   People's United Financial, Inc. Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value per share false 0001378946        0001378946   2021-02-22 2021-02-22     0001378946  us-gaap:CommonStockMember    2021-02-22 2021-02-22     0001378946  us-gaap:SeriesAPreferredStockMember    2021-02-22 2021-02-22      

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D. C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 22, 2021 

 PEOPLE’S UNITED FINANCIAL, INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware 

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 

 001-33326   20-8447891 

 (Commission File Number)   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (203) 338-7171 

(NOT APPLICABLE) 

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): 

 ☒  

Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

 ☐  

Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§ 230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company ☐ 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐ 

 Item 8.01.  

Other Events.  

On February 22, 2021, People’s United Financial, Inc. (“People’s United”) and M&T Bank Corporation (“M&T”) issued a joint press release announcing the execution of an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 21, 2021 (the “Merger Agreement”), pursuant to which M&T will, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, acquire People’s United in an all-stock transaction. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  

In connection with the announcement of the Merger Agreement, People’s United and M&T intend to provide supplemental information regarding the proposed transaction in connection with presentations to analysts and investors. A copy of the investor presentation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Item 9.01.  

Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

(d) Exhibits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Additional Information and Where to Find It  

In connection with the proposed transaction, M&T Bank Corporation (“M&T”) will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) a registration statement on Form S-4 to register the shares of M&T’s capital stock to be issued in connection with the proposed transaction. The registration statement will include a joint proxy statement of People’s United Financial, Inc. (“People’s United”) and M&T which will be sent to People’s United’s and M&T’s shareholders seeking their approval of the proposed transaction.  

This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF PEOPLE’S UNITED AND M&T AND THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES ARE URGED TO READ, WHEN AVAILABLE, THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON FORM S-4, THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS TO BE INCLUDED WITHIN THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT ON FORM S-4 AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION, AS WELL AS ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PEOPLE’S UNITED, M&T AND THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. Investors will be able to obtain a free copy of the registration statement, including the joint proxy statement/prospectus, as well as other relevant documents filed with the SEC containing information about People’s United and M&T, without charge, at the SEC’s website (http://www.sec.gov). Copies of the registration statement, including the joint proxy statement/prospectus, and the filings with the SEC that will be incorporated by reference in the joint proxy statement/prospectus can also be obtained, without charge, by directing a request to Steven Bodakowski, People’s United Financial, Inc., 850 Main Street, Bridgeport, Connecticut 06604, telephone (203) 338-4202, or Investor Relations, M&T Bank Corporation, One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203, telephone (716) 635-4000.  

Participants in the Solicitation  

People’s United, M&T and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Information regarding People’s United’s directors and executive officers is available in its definitive proxy statement, which was filed with the SEC on April 6, 2020, and certain of its Current Reports on Form 8-K. Information regarding M&T’s directors and executive officers is available in its definitive proxy statement, which was filed with the SEC on March 9, 2020, and certain of its Current Reports on Form 8-K. Other information regarding the participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC. Free copies of these documents, when available, may be obtained as described in the preceding paragraph.   

Forward-Looking Statements  

This communication includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about People’s United’s and M&T’s businesses, beliefs of People’s United’s and M&T’s management and assumptions made by People’s United’s and M&T’s management. Any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement, including statements regarding the expected timing, completion and effects of the proposed transactions and People’s United’s and M&T’s expected financial results, prospects, targets, goals and outlook. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “continue,” “positions,” “prospects” or “potential,” by future conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” or “may,” or by variations of such words or by similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions (“Future Factors”) which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements.  

Future Factors include, among others: the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the right of one or both of the parties to terminate the definitive merger agreement between People’s United and M&T; the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against People’s United or M&T; the possibility that the proposed transaction will not close when expected or at all because required regulatory, shareholder or other approvals are not received or other conditions to the closing are not satisfied on a timely basis or at all, or are obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; the risk that any announcements relating to the proposed combination could have adverse effects on the market price of the common stock of either or both parties to the combination; the possibility that the anticipated benefits of the transaction will not be realized when expected or at all, including as a result of the impact of, or problems arising from, the integration of the two companies or as a result of the strength of the economy and competitive factors in the areas where People’s United and M&T do business; certain restrictions during the pendency of the merger that may impact the parties’ ability to pursue certain business opportunities or strategic transactions; the possibility that the transaction may be more expensive to complete than anticipated, including as a result of unexpected factors or events; diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business operations and opportunities; potential adverse reactions or changes to business or employee relationships, including those resulting from the announcement or completion of the transaction; People’s United’s and M&T’s success in executing their respective business plans and strategies and managing the risks involved in the foregoing; and other factors that may affect future results of People’s United and M&T; the business, economic and political conditions in the markets in which the parties operate; the risk that the proposed combination and its announcement could have an adverse effect on either or both parties’ ability to retain customers and retain or hire key personnel and maintain relationships with customers; the risk that the proposed combination may be more difficult or time-consuming than anticipated, including in areas such as sales force, cost containment, asset realization, systems integration and other key strategies; revenues following the proposed combination may be lower than expected, including for possible reasons such as unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the transactions; the unforeseen risks relating to liabilities of People’s United or M&T that may exist; and uncertainty as to the extent of the duration, scope, and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on People’s United, M&T and the proposed combination.  

These are representative of the Future Factors that could affect the outcome of the forward-looking statements. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic and political conditions, either nationally or in the states in which People’s United, M&T or their respective subsidiaries do business, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes and trends in the securities markets, and other Future Factors.  

People’s United provides further detail regarding these risks and uncertainties in its 2019 Form 10-K and subsequent Form 10-Qs, including in the respective Risk Factors sections of such reports, as well as in subsequent SEC filings. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and People’s United does not assume any duty and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements.   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Date: February 22, 2021