Exhibit  

Exhibit 99.1

Alphabet Announces Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2019 Results

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. – February 3, 2020 – Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ: GOOG, GOOGL) today announced financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2019.

“Our investments in deep computer science, including artificial intelligence, ambient computing and cloud computing, provide a strong base for continued growth and new opportunities across Alphabet,” said Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google. “I’m really pleased with our continued progress in Search and in building two of our newer growth areas — YouTube, already at $15 billion in annual ad revenue, and Cloud, which is now on a $10 billion revenue run rate."

“In 2019 we again delivered strong revenue growth, with revenues of $162 billion, up 18% year over year and up 20% on a constant currency basis,” said Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google. “To provide further insight into our business and the opportunities ahead, we’re now disclosing our revenue on a more granular basis, including for Search, YouTube ads and Cloud.”

Expanded revenue disclosures

The table below shows our expanded revenue disclosures for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2019 and the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 (in millions, unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Q4 and full year 2018 and 2019 financial highlights

The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results for the quarters and years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019 (in millions, except for per share information and percentages; unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Included in net income is the provision for income taxes. Our effective tax rate was 12% and 13% for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and was 11% and 0% (reflective of discrete items, including the resolution of multi-year audits) for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. 

Q4 2019 supplemental information (in millions, except for number of employees; unaudited)

Revenues, Traffic Acquisition Costs (TAC) and number of employees

The following table summarizes our revenues, total TAC and number of employees. Hedging gains (losses), which were previously included in Google revenues, are presented separately.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) YouTube non-advertising revenues are included in Google other revenues.

Segment operating results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Webcast and conference call information

A live audio webcast of our fourth quarter 2019 earnings release call will be available at http://abc.xyz/investor. The call begins today at 2:00 PM (PT) / 5:00 PM (ET). This press release, including the reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, is also available on that site.

We also provide announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs, on our investor relations website (http://abc.xyz/investor).

Forward-looking statements

This press release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted, and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from the results predicted include, among others, those risks and uncertainties included under the captions “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, as amended, and our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 which are on file with the SEC and are available on our investor relations website at http://abc.xyz/investor and on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Additional information will also be set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. All information provided in this release and in the attachments is as of February 3, 2020. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this press release, which are based on information available to us on the date hereof. We undertake no duty to update this information unless required by law.

2

About non-GAAP financial measures

To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use the following non-GAAP financial measures: free cash flow; constant currency revenues; and constant currency revenue growth. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.

We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and liquidity by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our recurring core business operating results, such as our revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities. We believe that both management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing our performance and when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate management’s internal comparisons to our historical performance and liquidity as well as comparisons to our competitors’ operating results. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business.

There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from these non-GAAP financial measures and evaluating these non-GAAP financial measures together with their relevant financial measures in accordance with GAAP.

For more information on these non-GAAP financial measures, please see the tables captioned “Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow” and “Reconciliation from GAAP revenues to non-GAAP constant currency revenues” included at the end of this release.

Contact

Investor relationsMedia

investor-relations@abc.xyzpress@abc.xyz

3

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and par value per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

Alphabet Inc.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

Reconciliation from net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions; unaudited):

We provide free cash flow because it is a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business and acquisitions, and to strengthen our balance sheet.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free cash flow: We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.

7

Reconciliation from GAAP revenues to non-GAAP constant currency revenues (in millions; unaudited):

We provide non-GAAP constant currency revenues and growth because they facilitate the comparison of current results to historic performance by excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, which are not indicative of our core operating results.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Total revenues and hedging gains (losses) for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 were $39,276 million and $124 million, respectively. Total revenues and hedging gains (losses) for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 were $40,499 million and $119 million, respectively. 

Non-GAAP constant currency revenues and growth: We define non-GAAP constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and we use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter bases. Non-GAAP constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current quarter revenues using prior period exchange rates and excluding any hedging effect recognized in the current quarter. Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current quarter non-GAAP constant currency revenues over prior period revenues, excluding any hedging effect recognized in the prior period.

8

Other income (expense), net

The following table presents our other income (expense), net (in millions; unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  $488 million of the gain on equity securities for Q4 2019 represents unrealized gains on equity investments that we hold. Fluctuations in the value of our investments could significantly contribute to the volatility of OI&E in future periods.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3) Q4 2018 results have been recast to reflect the reclassification of performance fees from general and administrative expenses to OI&E to conform to the current period presentation.

9

Segment results

The following table presents our revenues, operating income (loss), stock-based compensation (SBC), capital expenditures, and depreciation, amortization, and impairment by segment (in millions; unaudited):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Certain items have been reclassified for the prior period to conform with current period presentation: (i) hedging gains (losses) were previously included in Google revenues, and (ii) performance fees previously included in reconciling items were reclassified from general and administrative expenses to OI&E.

(2) Reconciling items are generally comprised of corporate administrative costs, hedging gains (losses) and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments.

(3) For purposes of segment reporting, SBC represents awards that we expect to settle in Alphabet stock.

(4) Reconciling items are primarily related to corporate administrative and other costs that are not allocated to individual segments.

(5) Reconciling items are related to timing differences of payments, as segment capital expenditures are on an accrual basis while total capital expenditures shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are on a cash basis, and other miscellaneous differences.

10