Exhibit  

Exhibit 99.1

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 

Lam Research Corporation Reports Financial Results for the Quarter Ended December 29, 2019 

FREMONT, Calif., January 29, 2020 - Lam Research Corporation (the "Company," "Lam," "Lam Research") today announced financial results for the quarter ended December 29, 2019 (the “December 2019 quarter”). 

Highlights for the December 2019 quarter were as follows:

•Revenue of $2.58 billion.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Key Financial Data for the Quarters Ended 

December 29, 2019 and September 29, 2019 

(in thousands, except per-share data, percentages, and basis points) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

U.S. GAAP Financial Results

For the December 2019 quarter, revenue was $2,584 million, gross margin was $1,180 million, or 45.7% of revenue, operating expenses were $493 million, operating income was 26.6% of revenue, and net income was $515 million, or $3.43 per diluted share on a U.S. GAAP basis. This compares to revenue of $2,166 million, gross margin of $982 million, or 45.3% of revenue, operating expenses of $444 million, operating income of 24.8% of revenue, and net income of $466 million, or $3.09 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 29, 2019 (the “September 2019 quarter”). 

Non-GAAP Financial Results

For the December 2019 quarter, non-GAAP gross margin was $1,181 million or 45.7% of revenue, non-GAAP operating expenses were $481 million, non-GAAP operating income was 27.1% of revenue, and non-GAAP net income was $602 million, or $4.01 per diluted share. This compares to non-GAAP gross margin of $983 million or 45.4% of revenue, non-GAAP operating expenses of $431 million, non-GAAP operating income of 25.5% of revenue, and non-GAAP net income of $480 million, or $3.18 per diluted share for the September 2019 quarter.

“Lam closed out calendar 2019 with strong December quarter results,” said Tim Archer, Lam Research’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “We are executing at a high level in an improving wafer fabrication equipment environment and building a powerful pipeline of new products to fuel future growth.”

Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Results

Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash and investments balances decreased to $4.9 billion at the end of the December 2019 quarter compared to $5.8 billion at the end of the September 2019 quarter. This decrease was primarily the result of $1.0 billion of share repurchases, including net share settlement on employee stock-based compensation, $166.7 million of dividends paid to stockholders, and $62.1 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by $307.9 million of cash generated from operating activities. 

Deferred revenue and deferred profit at the end of the December 2019 quarter decreased to $411 million and $366 million, respectively, as compared to $481 million and $407 million, respectively, at the end of the September 2019 quarter. Lam’s deferred revenue balance does not include shipments to customers in Japan, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to customers in Japan are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The estimated future revenue from shipments to customers in Japan was approximately $91 million as of December 29, 2019 and $47 million as of September 29, 2019.

Geographic Distribution

The geographic distribution of revenue during the December 2019 quarter is shown in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outlook

For the quarter ended March 29, 2020, Lam is providing the following guidance: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The information provided above is only an estimate of what the Company believes is realizable as of the date of this release and does not incorporate the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring, balance sheet valuation adjustments, financing arrangements, other investments, or other significant arrangements that may be completed after the date of this release. U.S. GAAP to non-GAAP reconciling items provided include only those items that are known and can be estimated as of the date of this release. Actual results will vary from this model and the variations may be material. Reconciling items included above are as follows: 

•Gross margin as a percentage of revenue - amortization related to intangible assets acquired through business combinations, $2 million.

•Operating income as a percentage of revenue - amortization related to intangible assets acquired through business combinations, $14 million.

•Net income per diluted share - amortization related to intangible assets acquired though business combinations, $14 million; amortization of note discounts, $1 million; and associated tax benefit for non-GAAP items ($2 million); totaling $13 million. 

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Results

In addition to U.S. GAAP results, this press release also contains non-GAAP financial results. The Company’s non-GAAP results for both the December 2019 and September 2019 quarters exclude amortization related to intangible assets acquired through business combinations, amortization of note discounts, and income tax benefit of non-GAAP items. Additionally, the December 2019 quarter non-GAAP results exclude the cumulative income tax benefit reversal due to the Ninth Circuit decision to deny a rehearing of the Altera stock-based compensation case and the September 2019 quarter non-GAAP results exclude restructuring charges.

Management uses non-GAAP gross margin, operating expense, operating income, operating income as a percentage of revenue, net income, and net income per diluted share to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial results. The Company believes the presentation of non-GAAP results is useful to investors for analyzing business trends and comparing performance to prior periods, along with enhancing investors’ ability to view the Company’s results from management’s perspective. Tables presenting reconciliations of non-GAAP results to U.S. GAAP results are included at the end of this press release and on the Company’s website at http://investor.lamresearch.com.

Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Statements made in this press release that are not of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate to, but are not limited to: the estimated future revenue from shipments to customers in Japan; the timing and amount of revenue and profit earned from any booked deferred revenue and profit; our continuing ability to execute; improvement in the wafer fabrication equipment environment; our ability to develop successful new products and the potential for those products to fuel future growth; the legal and business factors that may affect our future tax rate; and our guidance for revenue, gross margin (both as a dollar value and a percentage of revenue), operating income (both as a dollar value and a percentage of revenue), net income or earnings per diluted share, on either a GAAP or non-GAAP basis and diluted share count. Some factors that may affect these forward-looking statements include: business, political and/or regulatory conditions in the consumer electronics industry, the semiconductor industry and the overall economy may deteriorate or change; the actions of our customers and competitors may be inconsistent with our expectations; and widespread outbreaks of illness may impact our operations and revenue in affected areas; as well as the other risks and uncertainties that are described in the documents filed or furnished by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically the Risk Factors described in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019. These uncertainties and changes could materially affect the forward-looking statements and cause actual results to vary from expectations in a material way. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this release.

About Lam Research

Lam Research Corporation is a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. As a trusted, collaborative partner to the world’s leading semiconductor companies, we combine superior systems engineering capability, technology leadership, and unwavering commitment to customer success to accelerate innovation through enhanced device performance. Lam Research (Nasdaq: LRCX) is a FORTUNE 500® company headquartered in Fremont, Calif., with operations around the globe. Learn more at www.lamresearch.com. (LRCX-F)

Consolidated Financial Tables Follow.

 ###

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in thousands, except per share data and percentages)

(unaudited) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Derived from audited financial statements.

(2)Common shares issued and outstanding were 142,462 as of December 29, 2019, 144,871 as of September 29, 2019, and 144,433 as of June 30, 2019.

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands, unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-GAAP Financial Summary

(in thousands, except percentages and per share data) 

(unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income

(in thousands, except per share data) 

(unaudited) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Operating Income to Non-GAAP Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Operating Income

(in thousands, except percentages)

(unaudited) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Lam Research Corporation Contacts:

Tina Correia, Investor Relations, phone: 510-572-1615, e-mail: investor.relations@lamresearch.com