UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 25, 2019 

L3 TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  600 Third Avenue, New York, NY     10016   

  (Address of Principal Executive Offices)     (Zip Code)    

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (212) 697-1111 

 (Former name or former address if changed since last report) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

 ☒  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)      

 ☐  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)      

 ☐  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))      

 ☐  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an emerging growth company as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (§230.405 of this chapter) or Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§240.12b-2 of this chapter). 

Emerging growth company ☐  

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐ 

 Item 8.01.  Other Events.      

As previously disclosed, on October 12, 2018, L3 Technologies, Inc. (“L3”) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Harris Corporation, a Delaware corporation (“Harris”), and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Harris, pursuant to which L3 and Harris have agreed, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, to effect an all-stock, merger of equals combination of their respective businesses (the “Merger”). On February 25, 2019, L3 issued a press release announcing that it has set April 4, 2019 as the date for the special meeting of its stockholders to consider and vote on various proposals necessary to close the Merger and certain other matters. L3 stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2019 will be entitled to notice of, and to vote at, the special meeting. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99. 

The Merger is expected to close in mid-calendar year 2019, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals and approval by the stockholders of L3 and Harris. 

This press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. 

 Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.      

(d) Exhibits. 

Exhibit 

Number     Title   

  99     Press Release dated February 25, 2019, issued by L3 Technologies, Inc.    

Important Additional Information and Where to Find It 

This report does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. 

This report is being made in respect of the proposed merger transaction between L3 Technologies, Inc. (“L3”) and Harris Corporation (“Harris”). In connection with the proposed merger, Harris filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-228829) that includes a Joint Proxy Statement of L3 and Harris and a Prospectus of Harris, as well as other relevant documents regarding the proposed transaction. The Registration Statement, as amended, was declared effective by the SEC on February 20, 2019. L3 and Harris commenced mailing the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus to L3 stockholders and Harris stockholders on or about February 25, 2019. This report is not a substitute for the Registration Statement, the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus or any other document that either or both of L3 or Harris or any of their respective affiliates may file with the SEC or make available to their respective stockholders. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS REGARDING THE MERGER AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY, AS WELL AS ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. 

A free copy of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about L3 and Harris, may be obtained at the SEC’s Internet site (http://www.sec.gov). You are also able to obtain these documents, free of charge, from L3 by accessing L3’s website at https://www.l3t.com/ or from Harris by accessing Harris’ website at https://www.harris.com/. 

L3 and Harris and certain of their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from L3 stockholders and Harris stockholders in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding L3’s directors and executive officers is contained in L3’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, dated March 26, 2018, which are filed with the SEC. Information regarding Harris’ directors and executive officers is contained in Harris’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 29, 2018 and its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, dated September 6, 2018, which are filed with the SEC. Additional information regarding the interests of those participants and other persons who may be deemed participants in the transaction may be obtained by reading the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus regarding the proposed merger. Free copies of this document may be obtained as described in the preceding paragraph. 

Forward-Looking Statements  

Certain of the matters discussed in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than historical facts may be forward-looking statements; words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “projects,” “financial guidance,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. L3 and Harris caution investors that these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond L3’s and Harris’ control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. In addition to factors previously disclosed in L3’s and Harris’ reports filed with the SEC and those identified elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements or historical performance: the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the right of one or both of L3 and Harris to terminate the definitive merger agreement between L3 and Harris; the outcome of any legal proceedings that have been or may be instituted against L3, Harris or their respective directors; the risk that the stockholder approvals of L3 or Harris may not be obtained on the expected schedule or at all; the ability to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other closing conditions to the merger in a timely manner or at all, including the risk that regulatory approvals required for the merger are not obtained or are obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; delay in closing the merger; difficulties and delays in integrating the L3 and Harris businesses or fully realizing anticipated cost savings and other benefits; business disruptions from the proposed merger that may harm L3’s or Harris’ businesses, including current plans and operations; any announcement relating to the proposed transaction could have adverse effects on the ability of L3 or Harris to retain and hire key personnel or maintain relationships with suppliers and customers, including the U.S. government and other governments, or on L3’s or Harris’ operating results and businesses generally; the risk that the announcement of the proposed transaction could have adverse effects on the market price of the common stock of either or both of L3’s and Harris’ common stock and the uncertainty as to the long-term value of the common stock of the combined company following the merger; certain restrictions during the pendency of the merger that may impact L3’s or Harris’ ability to pursue certain business opportunities or strategic transactions; the business, economic and political conditions in the markets in which L3 and Harris operate; and events beyond L3’s and Harris’ control, such as acts of terrorism. 

These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they were made, and neither L3 nor Harris undertakes any obligation to update forward-looking statements. For a more detailed discussion of these factors, also see the information under the captions “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors” in L3’s and Harris’ Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus that forms part of the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Harris and the captions “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in L3’s and Harris’ most recent reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2018 and June 29, 2018, respectively, and any material updates to these factors contained in any of L3’s and Harris’ subsequent and future filings. 

As for the forward-looking statements that relate to future financial results and other projections, actual results will be different due to the inherent uncertainties of estimates, forecasts and projections and may be better or worse than projected and such differences could be material. Annualized, pro forma, projected and estimated numbers are used for illustrative purpose only, are not forecasts and may not reflect actual results. Given these uncertainties, you should not place any reliance on these forward-looking statements. 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]