Form 8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 8, 2016  

ALLERGAN PLC  

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Clonshaugh Business and Technology Park  

Coolock, Dublin, D17 E400, Ireland  

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)  

(862) 261-7000  

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):  

 ¨ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ¨ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)  

 Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.  

On February 8, 2016, Pfizer Inc. announced the expected executive leadership team of the combined organization (which we refer to as the “Combined Company”) upon completion of the pending transaction involving Pfizer Inc. and Allergan plc (“Allergan”). As Allergan is the surviving entity, the related press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Allergan’s current Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief Financial Officer will continue in their current roles through the completion of the Merger.  

Allergan Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

Statements contained in this communication that refer to Allergan’s anticipated future events, estimated or anticipated future results, or other non-historical facts are forward-looking statements that reflect Allergan’s current perspective of existing trends and information as of the date of this communication. Forward looking statements generally will be accompanied by words such as such as “anticipate”, “target”, “possible”, potential”, “predict”, “project”, “forecast”, “out-look”, “guidance”, “expect”, “estimate”, “intend”, “plan”, “goal”, “believe”, “hope”, “aim”, “continue”, “will”, “may”, “might”, “would”, “could” or “should” or other similar words, phrases or expressions or the negatives thereof. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the proposed transaction, including future financial and operating results and synergies, Allergan’s, Pfizer’s and the combined company’s plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, and the expected timing of completion of the transaction. It is important to note that Allergan’s goals and expectations are not predictions of actual performance. Actual results may differ materially from Allergan’s current expectations depending upon a number of factors affecting Allergan’s business, Pfizer’s business and risks associated with business combination transactions. These factors include, among others, the inherent uncertainty associated with financial projections; restructuring in connection with, and successful closing of, the proposed transaction; subsequent integration of Allergan and Pfizer and the ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of the proposed transaction; the ability to obtain required regulatory approvals for the transaction (including the approval of antitrust authorities necessary to complete the transaction), the timing of obtaining such approvals and the risk that such approvals may result in the imposition of conditions that could adversely affect the combined company or the expected benefits of the transaction; the ability to obtain the requisite Allergan and Pfizer shareholder approvals; the risk that a condition to closing of the proposed transaction may not be satisfied on a timely basis or at all; the failure of the proposed transaction to close for any other reason; risks relating to the value of the Allergan shares to be issued in the transaction; the anticipated size of the markets and continued demand for Allergan’s and Pfizer’s products; the difficulty of predicting the timing or outcome of FDA approvals or actions, if any; the impact of competitive products and pricing; market acceptance of and continued demand for Allergan’s and Pfizer’s products; difficulties or delays in manufacturing; the risks of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the risks and uncertainties normally incident to the pharmaceutical industry, including product liability claims and the availability of product liability insurance on reasonable terms; the difficulty of predicting the timing or outcome of pending or future litigation or government investigations; periodic dependence on a small number of products for a material source of net revenue or income; variability of trade buying patterns; changes in generally accepted accounting principles; risks that the carrying values of assets may be negatively impacted by future events and circumstances; the timing and success of product launches; costs and efforts to defend or enforce intellectual property rights; the availability and pricing of third party sourced products and materials; successful compliance with governmental regulations applicable to Allergan’s and Pfizer’s facilities, products and/or businesses; changes in the laws and regulations affecting, among other things, pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products; risks associated with tax liabilities, or changes in U.S. federal or international tax laws or interpretations to which they are subject, including the risk that the Internal Revenue Service disagrees that Allergan is a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes; the loss of key senior management or scientific staff; and such other risks and uncertainties detailed in Allergan’s periodic public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to Allergan’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2015, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2015, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2015, and from time to time in Allergan’s other investor communications. Except as expressly required by law, Allergan disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.  

 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

   d. Exhibits  

  Exhibit

No.    Description 

 99.1   Pfizer Inc. Press Release, dated February 8, 2016.  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

EXHIBIT INDEX  

 Exhibit

No.   Description 

 99.1   Pfizer Inc. Press Release, dated February 8, 2016