Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

LKQ CORPORATION ANNOUNCES RESULTS FOR FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2015

•Annual revenue growth of 6.7% to $7.19 billion

•Annual organic revenue growth for parts and services of 7.0%

•Annual net income growth of 10.9% to $423.2 million

•Annual Diluted EPS of $1.38; adjusted diluted EPS of $1.42

•Fourth quarter 2015 diluted EPS of $0.31; adjusted diluted EPS of $0.32

•2016 annual guidance provided

Chicago, IL (February 25, 2016) - LKQ Corporation (Nasdaq:LKQ) today announced results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2015. For the fourth quarter of 2015, net income was $95.1 million, an increase of 18.1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014, and diluted earnings per share was $0.31, a 19.2% increase year over year. For the full year 2015, net income was $423.2 million, an increase of 10.9% compared to 2014, and diluted earnings per share was $1.38, a 10.4% increase over the $1.25 reported for 2014. The Company noted that full year 2015 and 2014 diluted earnings per share included charges equal to $0.04 and $0.02, respectively, per share resulting from restructuring and acquisition related expenses, losses on debt extinguishment and the change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. On an adjusted basis, EPS increased 11.8% to $1.42 in 2015 compared to $1.27 in 2014.

“We reached a major milestone in 2015 by surpassing $7 billion in annual revenue for the first time. I am particularly proud of the 19.2% growth in our diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter, and the strong increase in the EBITDA margins of our European segment to 10.1% for full year 2015. These results are a testament to the hard work and dedication of our 31,000 plus employees,” stated Robert Wagman, President and Chief Executive Officer of LKQ Corporation. 

Fourth Quarter 2015 Reported Results 

For the fourth quarter of 2015, revenue was $1.75 billion compared with $1.68 billion for the fourth quarter of 2014, an increase of 3.8%. For the fourth quarter, parts and services organic revenue growth was 6.2% and acquisition revenue growth was 4.7%, while the impact of exchange rates was (2.9)%, for total parts and services revenue growth of 8.0%. 

Full Year 2015 Reported Results

For the full year of 2015, revenue was $7.19 billion compared with $6.74 billion in 2014, an increase of 6.7%. Full year 2015 parts and services organic revenue growth was 7.0% and acquisition revenue growth was 7.1%, while the impact of exchange rates was (3.8)%, for total parts and services growth of 10.3%.

Balance Sheet and Liquidity

Cash flow from operations totaled $529.8 million in 2015, which after using approximately $330.0 million to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and other long term assets, allowed the Company, together with some excess cash, to reduce its outstanding debt by $239.0 million. As of December 31, 2015, LKQ’s balance sheet reflected cash and equivalents of $87.4 million and outstanding debt of $1.6 billion. The unused capacity under the Company’s credit facilities at December 31, 2015 was approximately $1.3 billion. 

Other Events 

The Company announced on November 13, 2015 that Robert M. Hanser was elected to LKQ’s Board of Directors.

On December 22, 2015, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to acquire the holding company of Rhiag-Inter Auto Parts Italia S.p.A (“Rhiag”), a leading pan-European business-to-business distributor of aftermarket spare parts for passenger cars and commercial vehicles, for an enterprise value of €1.04 billion. The Rhiag transaction is expected to be completed early in the second quarter of 2016 and is subject to customary closing conditions and necessary regulatory approvals.

In addition to the Rhiag announcement, during the fourth quarter of 2015 the Company acquired a wholesale salvage business in Sweden and an interest in a pan-European distributor and remanufacturer of engines and power train products. 

Mr. Wagman added: “Our 2015 development efforts resulted in the completion of 18 acquisitions, which expanded our geographic footprint and extended our leadership position in each of our operating segments.”

On January 29, 2016, the Company completed an amendment to its credit facility that increased the aggregate amount available thereunder from $2.3 billion to $3.2 billion and extended the maturity to January 2021. The amended facility includes a $2.45 billion multi-currency revolver and a term loan facility of approximately $500 million and €230 million. The unused capacity under the new credit agreement at closing was approximately $2.2 billion.

Company Outlook

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Referring to the 2016 earnings per share guidance, Nick Zarcone, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of LKQ Corporation stated, "The declines we saw in the foreign currency rates in 2015 have continued into the first quarter of 2016, with the British pound and Canadian Dollar both trading lower than the 2015 averages when compared to the US Dollar. During 2015, we saw the markets for scrap steel, copper and other commodities trend materially lower and they have held at these levels into the first quarter. Despite these meaningful headwinds, we project 

solid EPS growth for 2016 with the mid-point of our guidance representing a 10.1% increase over the comparable 2015 EPS results.” 

As disclosed on our investor call on December 22, 2015 relating to Rhiag, we are modifying our measure of adjusted diluted EPS for periods after 2015 to exclude the amortization expense related to acquired intangibles. Our guidance for 2016 adjusted net income and adjusted diluted EPS excludes the impact of restructuring and acquisition related expenses; gains or losses related to acquisitions or divestitures (including changes in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities) and amortization of acquired intangibles. Our guidance for capital expenditures excludes spending related to future business acquisitions. Our pending acquisition of Rhiag is not included in our guidance.

Guidance for 2016 is based on scrap prices remaining at current prices and exchange rates for the British pound, Euro and Canadian dollar holding near current levels. Changes in these figures may impact our ability to achieve the full year earnings and cash flow guidance.

Conference Call Details

On February 25, 2016 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (9:00 a.m. Central Time) members of senior management will host a conference call and Webcast to discuss the Company's results. To access the investor conference call, please dial (877) 407-0668. International access to the call may be obtained by dialing (201) 689-8558.

Webcast and Presentation Details

The audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation can be accessed at www.lkqcorp.com in the Investor Relations section. 

A replay of the conference call will be available by telephone at (877) 660-6853 or (201) 612-7415 for international calls. The telephone replay will require you to enter conference ID: 13628612#. An online replay of the audio webcast will be available on the Company's website. Both formats of replay will be available through March 25, 2016. Please allow approximately two hours after the live presentation before attempting to access the replay. 

About LKQ Corporation

LKQ Corporation (www.lkqcorp.com) is a leading provider of alternative and specialty parts to repair and accessorize automobiles and other vehicles. LKQ has operations in North America, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Scandinavia, and Taiwan. LKQ offers its customers a broad range of replacement systems, components, equipment and parts to repair and accessorize automobiles, trucks, and recreational and performance vehicles. 

Forward Looking Statements 

The statements in this press release that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These include statements regarding our outlook, guidance, expectations, beliefs, hopes, intentions and strategies. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, some of which are not currently known to us. Actual events or results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements as a result of various factors.

These factors include the following (not necessarily in order of importance): 

•changes in economic and political activity in the U.S. and other countries in which we are located or do business, and the impact of these changes on the demand for our products and our ability to obtain financing for operations;

•increasing competition in the automotive parts industry;

•fluctuations in the pricing of new original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) replacement products; 

•changes in the level of acceptance and promotion of alternative automotive parts by insurance companies and auto repairers; 

•changes to our business relationships with insurance companies or changes by insurance companies to their business practices relating to the use of our products; 

•our ability to identify sufficient acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives;

•our ability to integrate, realize expected synergies, and successfully operate acquired companies and any companies acquired in the future, and the risks associated with these companies; 

•restrictions or prohibitions on selling certain aftermarket products to the extent OEMs seek and obtain more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity; 

•variations in the number of vehicles sold, vehicle accident rates, miles driven, and the age profile of vehicles in accidents; 

•fluctuations in the prices of fuel, scrap metal and other commodities;

•changes in state or federal laws or regulations affecting our business; 

•higher costs and the resulting potential inability to service our customers to the extent that our suppliers decide to discontinue business relationships with us;

•price increases, interruptions or disruptions to the supply of vehicle parts from aftermarket suppliers and from salvage auctions;

•changes in the demand for our products and the supply of our inventory due to severity of weather and seasonality of weather patterns; 

•the risks associated with operating in foreign jurisdictions, including foreign laws and economic and political instabilities;

•declines in the values of our assets;

•additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements, and work stoppages; 

•our ability to develop and implement the operational and financial systems needed to manage our operations;

•interruptions, outages or breaches of our operational systems, security systems, or infrastructure as a result of attacks on, or malfunctions of, our systems;

•product liability claims by the end users of our products or claims by other parties who we have promised to indemnify for product liability matters;

•costs associated with recalls of the products we sell;

•inaccuracies in the data relating to our industry published by independent sources upon which we rely;

•currency fluctuations in the U.S. dollar, pound sterling and euro versus other currencies;

•our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms to finance our growth; 

•our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and to operate within the limitations imposed by financing agreements; and

•other risks that are described in our Form 10-K filed March 2, 2015 and in other reports filed by us from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are based on our expectations as of the date of this press release. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 

Contact:

Joseph P. Boutross-LKQ Corporation

Director, Investor Relations

(312) 621-2793

jpboutross@lkqcorp.com

LKQ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income

(In thousands, except per share data)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LKQ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets

(In thousands, except share and per share data)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LKQ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(In thousands)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LKQ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Unaudited Supplementary Data

(In thousands, except per share data)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The sum of the individual percentage of revenue components may not equal the total due to rounding.

LKQ CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Unaudited Supplementary Data

(In thousands, except per share data)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The sum of the individual percentage of revenue components may not equal the total due to rounding.

The following unaudited tables compare certain third party revenue categories:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue changes by category for the three months ended December 31, 2015 vs. 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue changes by category for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 vs. 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The sum of the individual revenue change components may not equal the total percentage change due to rounding.

The following unaudited table reconciles Net Income to EBITDA:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Loss on debt extinguishment is considered a component of interest in calculating EBITDA, as the write-off of debt issuance costs is similar to the treatment of debt issuance cost amortization.

We provide a reconciliation of Net Income to EBITDA as we believe it offers investors, securities analysts and other interested parties useful information regarding our results of operations because it assists in analyzing our performance and the value of our business. EBITDA provides insight into our profitability trends, and allows management and investors to analyze our operating results with and without the impact of depreciation, amortization, interest and income tax expense. We believe EBITDA is used by securities analysts, investors, and other interested parties in evaluating companies, many of which present EBITDA when reporting their results. EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to operating income, net income or net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In addition, not all companies that report EBITDA information calculate EBITDA in the same manner as we do and, accordingly, our calculation is not necessarily comparable to similarly named measures of other companies and may not be an appropriate measure for performance relative to other companies.

The following unaudited table compares revenue and Segment EBITDA by reportable segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The key measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by our chief operating decision maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, is Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA includes revenue and expenses that are controllable by the segment. Corporate and administrative expenses are allocated to the segments based on usage, with shared expenses apportioned based on the segment's percentage of consolidated revenue. Segment EBITDA is calculated as EBITDA excluding restructuring and acquisition related expenses, change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities and equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries. EBITDA, which is the basis for Segment EBITDA, is calculated as net income excluding depreciation, amortization, interest (including loss on debt extinguishment) and taxes. Loss on debt extinguishment is considered a component of interest in calculating EBITDA, as the write-off of debt issuance costs is similar to the treatment of debt issuance cost amortization.

The following unaudited table reconciles Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share to Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share, respectively:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We provide a reconciliation of Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share ("EPS") to Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS as we believe it offers investors, securities analysts and other interested parties useful information regarding our results of operations because it assists in analyzing our performance and the value of our business. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS are presented as supplemental measures of our performance that management believes are useful for evaluating and comparing our operating activities across reporting periods. In 2015 and 2014, the Company defines Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS as Net Income and Diluted EPS adjusted to eliminate the impact of restructuring and acquisition related expenses, net of tax, loss on debt extinguishment, net of tax, and the change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS should not be construed as alternatives to Net Income or Diluted EPS as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In addition, because not all companies use identical calculations, this presentation of Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.

The following unaudited table reconciles consolidated growth for Parts & Services Revenue and Total Revenue to revenue growth at constant currency for the same measure:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We evaluate growth in our operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. The constant currency presentation, which is a non-GAAP measure, excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our growth, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. Constant currency revenue results are calculated by translating prior year revenue in local currency using the current year's currency conversion rate. This non-GAAP measure has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Our use of this term may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by other issuers due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation.