Feb By-Laws Change - 8K Front   

 UNITED STATES   

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

 Washington, D.C. 20549  

 FORM 8-K  

 CURRENT REPORT  

 PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  

 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): February 3, 2016  

 MURPHY OIL CORPORATION  

 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   Registrant’s telephone number, including area code 870-862-6411    

   Not applicable   

   (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)    

 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Item 5.03 Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.  

 On February 3, 2016, the Murphy Oil Corporation Board of Directors (the “Board”) amended its By-Laws, effective on such date, to implement proxy access for eligible stockholders and to effect a number of other changes.  

 Article II, Section 9 was added to the By-Laws to permit a stockholder, or a group of up to 20 stockholders, that has owned at least 3% of the Company’s outstanding common stock continuously for at least three years to nominate and include in the Company’s proxy materials up to the greater of two directors and 20% of the number of the Company's directors then in office, provided that the stockholder(s) and the nominee(s) satisfy the requirements specified in the By-Laws.   

 Article II, Section 6 was amended to modify the existing majority voting standard for the election of directors such that where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the voting standard is then a plurality of votes of those stockholders present in person or by proxy. Article II was also amended to require that a stockholder proposal submission include the text of the proposal and disclose any hedging or derivative arrangements. Article III was amended to provide that the number of directors may be a range between nine and fourteen and to permit action by the Board upon written consent. The By-Laws were also amended to make certain other technical and conforming revisions.  

 A copy of the amended By-Laws is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2.  

 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Signature  

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Date: February 5, 2016  

 Exhibit Index  

   3.2    By-Laws of Murphy Oil Corporation, as amended February 3, 2016.