Roger Energy Presentation-8K Front   

 UNITED STATES   

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

 Washington, D.C. 20549  

 FORM 8-K  

 CURRENT REPORT  

 PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  

 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): February 24, 2016  

 MURPHY OIL CORPORATION  

 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   Registrant’s telephone number, including area code 870-862-6411    

   Not applicable   

   (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)    

 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.  

 As previously announced, , Roger Jenkins, President and CEO of Murphy Oil Corporation, will present at the Credit Suisse 21st Annual Energy Summit. Materials accompanying Mr. Jenkins’s presentation are attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  

 Forward-Looking Statements: This report contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “targets”, “expectations”, “plans”, “forecasts”, “projections” and other comparable terminology often identify forward-looking statements. These statements, which express management's current views concerning future events or results are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause one or more of these forecasted events not to occur include, but are not limited to, a failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, a deterioration in the business or prospects of Murphy, adverse developments in Murphy business' markets, adverse developments in the U.S. or global capital markets, credit markets or economies in general. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the volatility and level of crude oil and natural gas prices, the level and success rate of our exploration programs, our ability to maintain production rates and replace reserves, customer demand for our products, adverse foreign exchange movements, political and regulatory instability, and uncontrollable natural hazards. For further discussion of risk factors, see Murphy's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Murphy undertakes no duty to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.  

 The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.   

 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Signature  

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Date: February 24, 2016  

 Exhibit Index  

   99.1    Materials accompanying presentation delivered at February 24, 2016 Credit Suisse 21st Annual Energy Summit.