Exhibit   

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASECompany Contact

 Investors: Jim Zeumer

 (404) 978-6434

  Email: jim.zeumer@pultegroup.com

PULTEGROUP REPORTS FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2015 FOURTH QUARTER

•Q4 Net Income of $0.64 Per Share Includes $0.07 Per Share of Benefit from Insurance and Mortgage Reserve Reversals; Prior Year Q4 Net Income of $0.58 Per Share Includes $0.16 Per Share of Tax and Insurance Benefits

•Net New Orders Increased 13% to 3,659 Homes Driven by 9% Gain in Absorption Pace

•Value of Net New Orders Increased 24% to $1.4 Billion

•Home Sale Gross Margin of 23.5%, Up 40 Basis Points Over Prior Year

•Home Sale Revenues Increased 12% to $2.0 Billion 

•Closings Increased 7% to 5,662 Homes; Average Sales Price Up 6% to $353,000

•Q4 Backlog Value Up 26% Over Prior Year to $2.5 Billion; Unit Backlog Increased 15% to 6,731 Homes 

•PulteGroup Ended the Quarter with $775 Million of Cash and a Debt-to-Capital Ratio of 30%

ATLANTA, Jan. 28, 2016 - PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) announced today financial results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2015. For the quarter, PulteGroup reported net income of $228 million, or $0.64 per share, inclusive of $0.07 per share of benefit associated with the reversal of certain mortgage and construction related insurance reserves. Prior year net income of $217 million, or $0.58 per share, included $0.16 per share of income tax and insurance benefits. 

“PulteGroup’s fourth quarter results reflect improved performance from our homebuilding operations and, more broadly, the favorable demand environment we continue to experience within the housing industry,” said Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Chairman, President and CEO of PulteGroup. “We realized a significant increase in fourth quarter operating performance driven by gains in order rates, closings, pricing and margins, while the 26% increase in our backlog value to $2.5 billion provides excellent momentum for strong earnings growth in 2016.

“While heightened global economic concerns have created greater market volatility, the positive trends in jobs, demographics and household formations, along with low interest rates and limited housing inventory, support expectations that housing demand continues to move higher at a measured pace for a number of years. Given the investments we are making into our business, including our recently completed John Wieland asset purchase, PulteGroup is well positioned to grow its revenues and earnings, while continuing to generate high returns on invested capital and consistently return funds to shareholders.”

Fourth Quarter Results

Home sale revenues for the fourth quarter totaled $2.0 billion, an increase of 12% over the prior year. The increase in revenues was driven by a 7% increase in closings to 5,662 homes combined with a 6% increase in average selling price to $353,000. The higher average selling price in the quarter reflects an ongoing shift in the 

1

mix of homes closed toward the Company’s Pulte Homes brand, as well as price increases realized across all three of the Company’s national brands: Centex, Pulte Homes and Del Webb.

Home sale gross margin for the period was 23.5%, an increase of 40 basis points from the prior year. SG&A expense for the quarter of $139 million, or 7.0% of home sale revenues, includes the benefit of a $30 million reversal of construction related insurance reserves recorded in the period. SG&A for the prior year period of $146 million, or 8.2% of home sale revenues, included the benefit of a $15 million reversal of construction related insurance reserves.

For the quarter, the Company reported 3,659 net new orders, an increase of 13% from prior year orders of 3,232 homes. The dollar value of fourth quarter orders increased 24% over the prior year to $1.4 billion. The Company ended the year with 620 active communities, which is up 4% from the comparable prior year period.

PulteGroup’s backlog of 6,731 homes, valued at $2.5 billion, is its highest year-end backlog since 2007, and is up from prior year backlog of 5,850 homes, valued at $1.9 billion. Reflecting the continued mix shift toward the Company’s higher priced Pulte Homes brand, average selling price in backlog increased 10% over the prior year to $365,000.

The Company's financial services operations reported pretax income of $29 million benefitted from the reversal of $12 million in mortgage repurchase reserves in the quarter. Prior year pretax income for financial services totaled $13 million. Mortgage capture rate for the fourth quarter was 83% compared with 81% in the prior year. 

The Company ended the year with a cash balance of $775 million and a debt-to-capitalization ratio of 30%. Given trading limitations resulting from work to close its previously disclosed term loan and to acquire certain assets of John Wieland Homes and Neighborhoods, the Company did not repurchase any shares of common stock during the quarter. 

A conference call discussing PulteGroup's fourth quarter results will be held Thursday, January 28, 2016, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, and webcast live via www.pultegroupinc.com. Interested investors can access the call via the Company's home page at www.pultegroupinc.com, and are encouraged to download the available slides that provide additional details on the Company's fourth quarter results.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release includes “forward-looking statements.” These statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “project,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “might,” “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future.

Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which PulteGroup operates; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by PulteGroup in its homebuilding operations; the impact of any changes to our strategy in responding to the cyclical nature of the industry, including any changes regarding our land positions; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with PulteGroup's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in PulteGroup's local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to successfully 

2

implement our capital allocation priorities; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. See PulteGroup's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. PulteGroup undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in PulteGroup's expectations.

About PulteGroup

PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM), based in Atlanta, Georgia, is one of America's largest homebuilding companies with operations in approximately 50 markets throughout the country. Through its brand portfolio that includes Centex, Pulte Homes, Del Webb, DiVosta Homes and John Wieland Homes and Neighborhoods, the Company is one of the industry's most versatile homebuilders able to meet the needs of multiple buyer groups and respond to changing consumer demand. PulteGroup conducts extensive research to provide homebuyers with innovative solutions and consumer inspired homes and communities to make lives better.

For more information about PulteGroup, Inc. and PulteGroup brands, go to www.pultegroupinc.com; www.pulte.com; www.centex.com; www.delwebb.com; www.divosta.com and www.jwhomes.com.

# # #

3

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Net new order dollars represent a composite of new order dollars combined with other movements of the dollars in backlog related to cancellations and change orders.

(b)For 2015, we realigned our organizational structure and reportable segment presentation. Accordingly, the segment information provided in the table above has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation for all periods presented.

8

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9