8-K   

United States  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the  

Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 8, 2016  

THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

81 Wyman Street 

Waltham, Massachusetts   02451 

 (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)  

Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (781) 622-1000  

Not Applicable  

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  

 ¨ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)   

 x Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)   

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))   

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))   

 Item 8.01. Other Events.  

On January 8, 2016, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (“Thermo Fisher”) and Affymetrix, Inc. (“Affymetrix”) issued a joint press release announcing the execution of an Agreement and Plan of Merger, pursuant to which, among other things and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions, Thermo Fisher agreed to acquire Affymetrix in an all cash transaction. A copy of the joint press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.  

***********  

Additional Information  

In connection with the proposed merger, Affymetrix will file a proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). STOCKHOLDERS ARE ADVISED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Stockholders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement (when available) and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC from the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, stockholders will be able to obtain, without charge, a copy of the proxy statement and other relevant documents (when available) at Affymetrix’ website at investor.Affymetrix.com or by contacting Affymetrix’ investor relations department via e-mail at investor@affymetrix.com.  

Participants in the Solicitation  

Affymetrix and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees as well as Thermo Fisher and its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Affymetrix’ stockholders with respect to the merger. Information about Affymetrix’ directors and executive officers and their ownership of Affymetrix’ common stock is set forth in the proxy statement for Affymetrix’ 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Affymetrix’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. Information about Thermo Fisher’s directors and executive officers is set forth in the proxy statement for Thermo Fisher’s 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Stockholders may obtain additional information regarding the direct and indirect interests of the participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the merger, including the interests of Affymetrix’ directors and executive officers in the merger, which may be different than those of Affymetrix’ stockholders generally, by reading the proxy statement and other relevant documents regarding the merger, which will be filed with the SEC.  

 Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

 (d) Exhibits.   

 Exhibit 99.1   Joint Press Release of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Affymetrix, Inc., dated January 8, 2016  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Exhibit 

Number    Description 

 Exhibit 99.1   Joint Press Release of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Affymetrix, Inc., dated January 8, 2016