Exhibit 99.1  

 Analog Devices Reports First Quarter 2016 Results  

 Revenue in the first quarter totaled $769 million, ADI repurchases $132 million of its stock and reduces share count by 1%  

 NORWOOD, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 17, 2016--Analog Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADI), a global leader in high-performance semiconductors for signal processing applications today announced financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2016, which ended January 30, 2016.  

 “Despite an uneven macroeconomic backdrop and significant weakness in the consumer market, our business to business (B2B) markets of industrial, automotive, and communications infrastructure were resilient in the first quarter,” said Vincent Roche, President and CEO. “In addition, we returned $257 million, or 131% of free cash flow, to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.”  

 “With order flows in the B2B markets trending largely in-line with seasonal patterns, we are planning for combined revenue in these markets to grow at a mid-to-high single digit rate sequentially in the second quarter, offsetting expected weakness in the portable consumer market. In total, we expect revenue in the second quarter to be in the range of -2% to +4% sequentially.”  

 Results for the First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016   

 Revenue totaled $769 million, down 21% sequentially, and stable year-over-year  

 Revenue in ADI’s B2B markets of industrial, automotive, and communications infrastructure totaled $644 million, down 3% sequentially, and down 5% year-over-year  

 GAAP gross margin of 62.0% of revenue; Non-GAAP gross margin of 62.2% of revenue  

 GAAP operating margin of 25.3% of revenue; Non-GAAP operating margin of 27.8% of revenue  

 GAAP diluted EPS of $0.52; Non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.56   

 Please refer to the schedules provided for a summary of revenue and earnings, selected balance sheet information, and the cash flow statement for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, as well as the immediately prior and year-ago quarters. Additional information on revenue by end market is provided on Schedule D.  

 ADI Increases Dividend by 2 cents and Share Repurchase Program to $1 Billion

ADI also announced on February 16, 2016 that its Board of Directors has approved a 2 cent increase in its quarterly dividend, from $0.40 to $0.42 per outstanding share of common stock. The dividend will be paid on March 8, 2016 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on February 26, 2016.  

 In addition, the Board of Directors approved an increase to the Company’s share repurchase authorization to $1 billion.  

 For additional information please visit ADI’s financial press release page.  

 Outlook for the Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2016

The following statements are based on current expectations, and as indicated, are presented on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. These statements are forward-looking and actual results may differ materially, as a result of, among other things, the important factors discussed at the end of this release. These statements supersede all prior statements regarding our business outlook set forth in prior ADI news releases, and ADI disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 1. Reflects estimated adjustments for amortization of purchased intangible assets and depreciation of step up value on purchased fixed assets.  

 2. Represents estimated impact of expenses associated with non-GAAP adjustments on a per share basis.  

 Conference Call Scheduled for Today, Wednesday, February 17, 2016 at 10:00 am ET

ADI will host a conference call to discuss first quarter fiscal 2016 results and short-term outlook today, beginning at 10:00 am ET. Investors may join via webcast, accessible at investor.analog.com, or by telephone (call 706-634-7193 ten minutes before the call begins and provide the password "ADI").  

 A replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call. The replay may be accessed for up to two weeks by dialing 855-859-2056 (replay only) and providing the conference ID: 95215509, or by visiting investor.analog.com.  

 Non-GAAP Financial Information

This release includes non-GAAP financial measures that are not in accordance with, nor an alternative to, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles.  

 Schedule E of this press release provides the reconciliation of the Company’s historical non-GAAP revenue and earnings measures to its GAAP measures.  

 Management uses non-GAAP measures to evaluate the Company’s operating performance from continuing operations against past periods and to budget and allocate resources in future periods. These non-GAAP measures also assist management in evaluating the Company’s core business and trends across different reporting periods on a consistent basis. Management also believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP items is useful to investors because it provides investors with the operating results that management uses to manage the Company and enables investors and analysts to evaluate the Company’s core business.  

 The following items are excluded from our non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share:  

 Acquisition-Related Expenses: Expenses incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and the fourth and first quarters of fiscal 2015 as a result of the Hittite acquisition primarily include: severance payments, expense associated with the fair value adjustments to inventory and property, plant and equipment; and amortization of acquisition related intangibles, which include acquired intangibles such as purchased technology and customer relationships. We excluded these costs from our non-GAAP measures because they relate to a specific transaction and are not reflective of our ongoing financial performance.  

 Stock-Based Compensation Expense: In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, the Company recorded $3.0 million of stock-based compensation expense for one of its former executive officers due to the accelerated vesting of restricted stock units and a reduction in the requisite service period for stock options in accordance with the terms of the applicable agreements. In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, the Company recorded $1.3 million of stock-based compensation expense due to the accelerated vesting of restricted stock units and stock options in conjunction with the restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. These stock-based compensation expenses and the related tax effect have no direct correlation to the operation of our business in the future.  

 The following items are excluded from our non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share:  

 Other Operating Expense: Costs incurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 as a result of the conversion of the benefits provided to participants in the Company’s Irish defined benefit pension plan to benefits provided under the Company’s Irish defined contribution plan including settlement charges, legal, accounting and other professional fees. We excluded these costs from our non-GAAP measures because they relate to a specific transaction and are not reflective of our ongoing financial performance.  

 Acquisition-Related Transaction Costs: Costs incurred as a result of the Hittite acquisition in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 including legal, accounting and other professional fees directly related to the Hittite acquisition. We excluded these costs from our non-GAAP measures because they relate to a specific transaction and are not reflective of our ongoing financial performance.  

 The following item is excluded from our non-GAAP other expense and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share:  

 Loss on Extinguishment of Debt: In the first quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company redeemed its outstanding 3.0% senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2016. The Company recognized a net loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $3.3 million, which was comprised of a make-whole premium and the write off of unamortized debt issuance and discount costs. We excluded these costs from our non-GAAP measures because they are not reflective of our ongoing financial performance.  

 The following items are excluded from our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share:  

 Tax-Related Items: In the first quarter of 2016, the Company recorded a $7.5 million tax benefit related to the reinstatement of the R&D tax credit in December 2015, retroactive to January 1, 2015. The Company also recorded tax adjustments in the first quarter of fiscal 2016, and the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2015 associated with the Hittite acquisition-related expenses and transaction costs. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a $13.0 million tax benefit as a result of the reversal of prior period tax liabilities. Also, in the first quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a $7.0 million tax benefit related to the reinstatement of the R&D tax credit in December 2014, retroactive to January 1, 2014. We excluded these tax-related items from our non-GAAP measures because they are not associated with the tax expense on our current operating results.  

 Schedule F of this press release provides the reconciliation of the Company’s historical adjusted cash flow measures to its cash flow measures.  

 Management uses adjusted free cash flow to measure the liquidity of its continuing operations and evaluate the Company’s operating cash performance against past periods. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by (used in) operating activities less capital expenditures. Adjusted free cash flow is defined by the Company as free cash flow adjusted for payments (refunds) that are not reflective of our ongoing operating cash performance. Management believes that the presentation of this adjusted financial measure is useful to investors because it provides investors with the operating cash flow results that management uses to manage the Company and enables investors and analysts to evaluate the Company’s liquidity from continuing operations.  

 The following item is excluded from our fourth quarter fiscal 2015 adjusted free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow margin:  

 Pension Conversion Payments: Costs incurred as a result of the conversion of the benefits provided to participants in the Company’s Irish defined benefit pension plan to benefits provided under the Company’s Irish defined contribution plan including settlement charges, legal, accounting, tax and other professional fees. We excluded these costs from our adjusted financial measures because they relate to a specific transaction and are not reflective of our ongoing financial performance.  

 Analog Devices believes that these non-GAAP measures have material limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. In addition, our non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to the non-GAAP measures reported by other companies. The Company’s use of non-GAAP measures, and the underlying methodology when excluding certain items, is not necessarily an indication of the results of operations that may be expected in the future, or that the Company will not, in fact, record such items in future periods.  

 Investors should consider our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.  

 About Analog Devices

Analog Devices designs and manufactures semiconductor products and solutions. We enable our customers to interpret the world around us by intelligently bridging the physical and digital with unmatched technologies that sense, measure and connect. Visit http://www.analog.com.  

 This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, our statements regarding expected revenue, earnings per share, gross margin, operating expenses, interest and other expense, tax rate, and other financial results, expected operating leverage, production and inventory levels, expected market trends, and expected customer demand and order rates for our products, that are based on our current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business and the industry and markets in which Analog Devices operates. The statements contained in this release are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, and do not give effect to the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, or business combinations that may be announced or closed after the date hereof. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in such forward-looking statements, and such statements should not be relied upon as representing Analog Devices’ expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements made by us. Important factors that may affect future operating results include: any faltering in global economic conditions or the stability of credit and financial markets, erosion of consumer confidence and declines in customer spending, unavailability of raw materials, services, supplies or manufacturing capacity, changes in geographic, product or customer mix, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, adverse results in litigation matters, and other risk factors described in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our results of operations for the periods presented in this release are not necessarily indicative of our operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Analog Devices, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, we will not necessarily update the information, as we will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the original issuance date of this release.  

 Analog Devices and the Analog Devices logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of Analog Devices, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 CONTACT:

Analog Devices, Inc.

Mr. Ali Husain, 781-461-3282 (phone)

781-461-3491 (fax)

Treasurer and Director of Investor Relations

investor.relations@analog.com