Exhibit   

Page 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Aimco Reports Fourth Quarter 2015 Results, Provides 2016 Guidance

Denver, Colorado, February 4, 2016 - Apartment Investment and Management Company (“Aimco”) (NYSE: AIV) announced today fourth quarter and full year 2015 results.

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Considine said: “2015 was a solid year for Aimco with average monthly revenue per apartment home better by 10%; leverage reduced by 11%; consensus NAV per share increased by 11%; and AFFO per share higher by 12%. We feel well prepared for 2016.”

“As we look inwardly at the Aimco business, we see continued solid demand and rising rents for our apartment homes. This makes us optimistic. Looking outside the Aimco business, we see the potential for overbuilding in some local markets and we take note of uncertainty in financial markets and in the general economy. This makes us conservative… and glad of the stability provided by the diversification of our portfolio across markets and price points, our limited exposure to redevelopment and development, and our liquid, low leverage balance sheet with limited dependence on capital markets.”

Chief Financial Officer Paul Beldin added: “In addition to guidance for 2016, we published today a forecast for 2017. We are providing an early look at 2017 to show our best guess as to the interplay of the possible slowing of rent growth; the lease-up of three communities, one in the Bay Area, one in Boston, and one in Cambridge; the reduction of non-core earnings; and the continuing reduction in our offsite costs. The net effect is improved portfolio quality, lower leverage, increased AFFO per share, and a higher quality of earnings.”

“By the end of 2017, we project average revenues per apartment home to exceed $2,000; the ratio of Debt and Preferred Equity to EBITDA to be about 6.3x; and AFFO per share to be up about 12% compared to 2016.”

 Financial Results: Fourth Quarter and Full Year AFFO Up 12%

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pro forma FFO (per diluted common share) - Year-over-year, fourth quarter Pro forma FFO increased 7% as a result of: strong Property Net Operating Income growth; increased contribution from redevelopment and acquisition communities; and lower interest expense due to lower debt balances. These increases were partially offset by lower income tax benefit and by the loss of income from apartment communities that were sold in 2014 and 2015.

Adjusted Funds from Operations (per diluted common share) - Year-over-year, fourth quarter AFFO increased 12% as a result of higher Pro forma FFO and lower capital replacement spending. As Aimco concentrates its investment capital in higher-quality, higher price point apartment communities, its free cash flow margins are increasing and contributing to higher AFFO.

1

Operating Results: Full Year Conventional Same Store NOI Up 5.6%

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Conventional Same Store Rental Rates - Aimco measures changes in rental rates by comparing, on a lease-by-lease basis, the rate on a newly executed lease to the rate on the expiring lease for that same apartment. Newly executed leases are classified either as a new lease, where a vacant apartment is leased to a new customer, or as a renewal.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Redevelopment: Scope Expanded at The Sterling

During fourth quarter, Aimco invested $19.7 million in redevelopment and also approved a plan to expand its phased redevelopment of The Sterling, a mixed-use community with 535 apartment homes located in Center City Philadelphia. Since 2014, Aimco has completed the redevelopment of 236 apartment homes, or 44% of the total as planned, at a cost consistent with underwriting, and with rents in excess of Aimco underwriting. These results led to Aimco's decision to develop an additional five floors containing 130 apartment homes for an additional investment of approximately $13 million. 

Also during fourth quarter, Aimco achieved stabilized occupancy at its Ocean House redevelopment community, located in La Jolla, California. Stabilized occupancy was achieved a quarter ahead of schedule and at rents above underwriting.

Development: Progressing as Planned

During fourth quarter, Aimco invested $35.3 million in two development communities. Construction continued on plan at Aimco's One Canal development, located in the historic Bulfinch Triangle neighborhood of Boston’s West End. One Canal will include 310 apartment homes and 22,000 square feet of commercial space. Aimco expects completion of construction in second quarter 2016. 

During fourth quarter, Aimco began the lease-up of its Vivo community located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and as of December 31, 2015, 15% of the 91 homes were occupied. Leasing activity during fourth quarter was in line with underwriting. Amenity finishes, including completion of a fitness center and finishes for a rooftop terrace, are scheduled to be completed in the summer of 2016.

2

Portfolio Management: Revenue Per Apartment Home Up 10% to 1,840 

Aimco's portfolio strategy seeks predictable rent growth from a portfolio of “A,” “B” and “C+” quality apartment communities, averaging “B/B+” in quality, and diversified among the largest coastal and job growth markets in the U.S., as measured by total apartment value. Aimco's target markets are primarily coastal markets, and also include several Sun Belt cities and Chicago, Illinois.

Aimco measures quality based on property rents compared to local market average rents as reported by REIS, a third-party provider of commercial real estate performance information and analysis. Aimco defines property quality as follows: “A” quality properties are those with rents greater than 125% of the local market average; “B” quality properties are those with rents between 90% and 125% of the local market average; “C+” quality properties are those with rents greater than $1,100 per month but lower than 90% of the local market average. For third quarter 2015, the most recent period for which REIS information is available, Aimco Conventional apartment rents averaged 111% of local market average rents.

Aimco's portfolio strategy is to sell each year the lowest-rated 5% to 10% of its portfolio and to reinvest the proceeds from such sales in redevelopment, selective development, and acquisition of higher quality apartment communities. Through this disciplined approach to capital recycling, Aimco has significantly increased the quality of its portfolio. From December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2015, Aimco:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Increased its Conventional portfolio free cash flow margin by 13% through the sale of lower-rated communities and reinvestment in communities of greater quality commanding higher rents; and

•Increased to 91% the percentage of its Conventional Property Net Operating Income earned in Aimco target markets.

As a result of these efforts, as of September 30, 2015, the most recent period for which market information is available, approximately 51%, 32% and 17% of Aimco's portfolio is invested in “A,” “B” and “C+” quality apartment homes, respectively.

As Aimco executes its portfolio strategy, it expects to increase Conventional portfolio average revenue per apartment home at a rate greater than market rent growth; to increase free cash flow margins; and to increase to 95% or more the percentage of its Conventional Property Net Operating Income earned in Aimco target markets.

Fourth Quarter 2015 Portfolio Transactions - In fourth quarter, Aimco sold three Conventional apartment communities with 964 apartment homes for $146.6 million in gross proceeds. Aimco's share of net sales proceeds after repayment of property debt and transaction costs was $93.6 million. Fourth quarter sales included the last two apartment communities Aimco owned in Phoenix, Arizona. Aimco did not acquire any apartment communities during the fourth quarter. 

Year-End Portfolio - Fourth quarter 2015 Conventional portfolio average monthly revenue per apartment home was $1,840, a 10% increase compared to fourth quarter 2014, as a result of year-over-year Same Store monthly revenue per apartment home growth of 4.5%, the sale of Conventional Apartment Communities with average monthly revenues per apartment home substantially lower than those of the retained portfolio, and reinvestment of the sales proceeds through redevelopment and acquisition of apartment communities with better prospects and higher rents.

3

Balance Sheet and Liquidity: Leverage lower by 11%

Components of Aimco Leverage

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Leverage Ratios

Aimco target leverage ratios are: Debt and Preferred Equity to EBITDA below 7.0x; and EBITDA to Interest and Preferred Dividends greater than 2.5x. Aimco also tracks Debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to Interest ratios. See the Glossary for definitions of these metrics.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* The Debt to EBITDA and Debt and Preferred Equity to EBITDA ratios presented for 2014 were adjusted on a pro-forma basis to reflect $367 million of net proceeds from Aimco's January 2015 stock offering. Actual 2014 Debt to EBITDA and 2014 Debt and Preferred Equity to EBITDA ratios were 7.1x and 7.6x, respectively.

Future leverage reduction is expected both from earnings growth, especially as apartment communities now being redeveloped or developed are completed and leased, and from regularly scheduled property debt amortization funded from retained earnings.

Liquidity

Aimco's only recourse debt at December 31, 2015, was its revolving credit facility, which Aimco uses for working capital and other short-term purposes, and to secure letters of credit.

At year-end, Aimco had outstanding borrowings on its revolving credit facility of $27.0 million and available capacity of $536.6 million, net of $36.4 million of letters of credit backed by the facility. Aimco also held cash and restricted cash on hand of $134.9 million.

Finally, Aimco held apartment communities in its unencumbered asset pool with a total estimated fair market value of approximately $1.8 billion.

Equity Activity

Dividend - As previously announced, the Aimco Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.33 per share of Class A Common Stock for the quarter ended December 31, 2015. On an annualized basis, this represents an increase of 12% compared to the dividends paid during 2015. This dividend is payable on February 29, 2016, to stockholders of record on February 19, 2016.

4

2016 Outlook

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2016 Pro forma FFO and AFFO Reconciliations

Aimco's 2016 outlook reflects continuation of the strategy Aimco has executed over the last several years. This strategy focuses on excellence in property operations; value creation through redevelopment and occasional development; portfolio management based on a disciplined approach to capital recycling and simplification of the business; a safe, flexible, and liquid balance sheet; and a simple business model executed by a performance-oriented and collaborative team. As Aimco continues to execute this consistent strategy, 2016 FFO and AFFO growth are expected to be muted compared to 2015. This projected lower rate of growth is primarily the result of several factors as follows: 

•Accelerating Same Store revenue and Net Operating Income growth in 2016 compared to 2015, adding $0.17 per share to AFFO;

•Declining Net Operating Income caused by selling stabilized communities to fund lease-up communities with no current income, reducing AFFO compared to 2015 by $0.15 per share;

•Declining non-core earnings as Aimco continues to simplify its business, lowering AFFO by $0.10 per share; and

•Declining offsite costs as Aimco scales its overhead to its more focused activities, adding $0.02 to AFFO per share.

Aimco published today in a separate document its forecast for 2017, which reflects accelerating FFO and AFFO growth compared to 2016 with: continued growth in Same Store revenue and Net Operating Income; earn-in of income from lease-up communities; a continued reduction in non-core earnings; and declining offsite costs. Aimco's 2016 Outlook and 2017 Forecast may be found on its website at http://www.aimco.com/investors/events-presentations/presentations.

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

Earnings Conference Call Information

Live Conference Call:Conference Call Replay:

Friday, February 5, 2016 at 1:00 p.m. ETReplay available until 9:00 a.m. ET on April 5, 2016

Domestic Dial-In Number: 1-888-317-6003Domestic Dial-In Number: 1-877-344-7529

International Dial-In Number: 1-412-317-6061International Dial-In Number: 1-412-317-0088

Passcode: 9850959Passcode: 10078593

Live webcast and replay: http://www.aimco.com/investors

Supplemental Information

The full text of this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information referenced in this release are available on Aimco's website at http://www.aimco.com/investors.

Glossary & Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial and Operating Measures 

Financial and operating measures found in this Earnings Release and the Supplemental Information include certain financial measures used by Aimco management that are measures not defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. These measures are defined in the Glossary in the Supplemental Information and, where appropriate, reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measures. 

About Aimco

Aimco is a real estate investment trust that is focused on the ownership and management of quality apartment communities located in the largest markets in the United States. Aimco is one of the country's largest owners and operators of apartments, with 196 communities in 22 states and the District of Columbia. Aimco common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AIV, and are included in the S&P 500. For more information about Aimco, please visit our website at www.aimco.com.

Contact

Elizabeth Coalson, Vice President-Investor Relations

Investor Relations 303-691-4350, investor@aimco.com

8

Forward-looking Statements

This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding projected results and specifically forecasts of: first quarter and full year 2016 results, including but not limited to: Pro forma FFO and selected components thereof; AFFO; Aimco's redevelopment and development investments, timelines and Net Operating Income contribution; Aimco’s acquisition and lease-up timelines and Net Operating Income contribution; expectations regarding sales of Aimco's apartment communities and the use of proceeds thereof; and Aimco liquidity and leverage metrics. 

These forward-looking statements are based on management's judgment as of this date and include certain risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: Aimco's ability to maintain current or meet projected occupancy, rental rates and property operating results; the effect of acquisitions, dispositions, redevelopments and developments; our ability to meet budgeted costs and timelines, and achieve budgeted rental rates related to our developments and redevelopments; our ability to meet timelines and budgeted rental rates related to our lease-up properties; and our ability to comply with debt covenants, including financial coverage ratios.

Actual results may differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements and, in addition, will be affected by a variety of risks and factors, some of which are beyond the control of Aimco, including, without limitation: real estate risks, including fluctuations in real estate values and the general economic climate in the markets in which we operate and competition for residents in such markets; national and local economic conditions, including the pace of job growth and the level of unemployment; financing risks, including the availability and cost of capital markets financing and the risk that our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest; the risk that our earnings may not be sufficient to maintain compliance with debt covenants; the amount, location and quality of competitive new supply; the terms of governmental regulations that affect Aimco and interpretations of those regulations; the competitive environment in which Aimco operates; the timing of acquisitions, dispositions, redevelopments and developments; insurance risk, including the cost of insurance; natural disasters and severe weather such as hurricanes; litigation, including costs associated with prosecuting or defending claims and any adverse outcomes; energy costs; and possible environmental liabilities, including costs, fines or penalties that may be incurred due to necessary remediation of contamination of apartment communities presently or previously owned by Aimco. In addition, Aimco's current and continuing qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and depends on its ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, through actual operating results, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership. 

Readers should carefully review Aimco's financial statements and the notes thereto, as well as the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Aimco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, and the other documents Aimco files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

These forward-looking statements reflect management's judgment as of this date, and Aimco assumes no obligation to revise or update them to reflect future events or circumstances. This press release does not constitute an offer of securities for sale.

9

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 13

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 15

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Deferred income represents cash received by Aimco and other amounts required by GAAP to be recognized in earnings in future periods as Aimco performs certain responsibilities under tax credit agreements or as other events occur in the future. Because Aimco does not have an obligation to settle these amounts in cash, Aimco does not include deferred income in liabilities for purposes of calculating NAV. Earnings related to these amounts are also excluded from Aimco's calculations of NAV.

16

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1]Represents the carrying amount of Aimco's debt at December 31, 2015, which debt had a mark-to-market liability of $120.4 million at quarter end.

[2]In 2011, $673.8 million of Aimco's loans payable were securitized in a trust holding only these loans. Aimco purchased for $51.5 million the subordinate positions in the trust that holds these loans. The subordinate positions have a face value of $100.9 million and a carrying amount of $65.5 million, and are included in other assets on Aimco’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2015. The carrying amount of these investments effectively reduces Aimco's December 31, 2015 debt balances.

[3]2021 maturities include property loans that will repay substantially all of Aimco’s subordinate positions in the securitization trust discussed above. 

[4]Represents the Money-Weighted Average Interest Rate on Aimco’s fixed rate property debt, which takes into account the timing of amortization and maturities. This rate is calculated by Aimco based on the unpaid principal balance as of December 31, 2015, and all contractual debt service payments associated with each of its fixed rate property loans. The Money-Weighted Average Interest Rate can be compared to market interest rates to estimate the difference between the book value of Aimco’s fixed rate property debt and the market value of such debt. 

17

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

18

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 19

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 20

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 21

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

22

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 23

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

24

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 25

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[1] Total Capital Additions reported above exclude $0.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively, for the three months and year ended December 31, 2015, related to consolidated apartment communities sold or classified as held for sale at the end of the period. For the three months and year ended December 31, 2015, Total Capital Additions include $3.1 million and $11.7 million of capitalized interest costs, respectively.

26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 27

Supplemental Schedule 10 (continued)              

Summary of Redevelopment and Development Activity       (Page 2 of 4)

Terms and Definitions   

Estimated Net Investment at Completion - represents total estimated investment, net of tax and other credits earned by Aimco as a direct result of its redevelopment or development of the community. Total estimated investment includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to redevelop or develop the respective community, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Where possible, Aimco makes use of tax and other available credits to reduce its invested capital, thereby maximizing investment returns. Aimco seeks historic tax and other credits related to several other communities in its redevelopment pipeline, which, if successful, Aimco will include in the net estimated investment.

Stabilized Occupancy - period in which Aimco expects to achieve targeted physical occupancy, generally greater than 90%. 

Stabilized NOI - period in which Aimco expects to achieve stabilized rents and operating costs, generally five quarters after Stabilized Occupancy.

Incremental Monthly Revenue per Apartment Home - represents, on a per-apartment home basis, the sum of the amounts by which rents and other rental income for an entire community are projected to increase as a result of the redevelopment of all or a part of the community. Projections of stabilized revenues per apartment home are based on management's judgment and take into consideration factors including but not limited to: current rent and other rental income expectations; current market rents; and rental achievement to date. Aimco expects to update its projections at least annually to reflect changes in market rents and rental rate achievement. These projections were last updated in third quarter 2015; however, the projected incremental monthly revenue per apartment home for The Sterling has been updated for the additional apartment homes approved for redevelopment during the fourth quarter.

Incremental Commercial Revenue - represents the projected incremental annual revenue contribution from commercial rents attributed to the redevelopment of commercial space.

Occupancy - for Park Towne Place and The Sterling, which are phased redevelopments, represents fourth quarter 2015 average daily occupancy across the entire community, which includes redeveloped apartment homes, apartment homes under redevelopment, and apartment homes not yet redeveloped. For Ocean House on Prospect, which was de-leased in order to accommodate the redevelopment, and Vivo, represents physical occupancy as of quarter-end.

Monthly Revenue per Apartment Home - represents the sum of projected rents and other rental income on a per apartment home basis. Projections are based on management's judgment and take into consideration factors including but not limited to: current rent and other rental income expectations; current market rents; and rental achievement to date. Aimco expects to update its projections at least annually to reflect changes in market rents and rental rate achievement. These projections were last updated in third quarter 2015.

Commercial Revenue - represents the projected annual revenue contribution from commercial rents attributed to the development of commercial space.

 28

Supplemental Schedule 10 (Continued) 

Summary of Redevelopment and Development Communities(Page 3 of 4)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 29

Supplemental Schedule 10 (Continued) 

Summary of Redevelopment and Development Communities(Page 4 of 4)

CommunityProject Summary

One Canal Apartment Homes

Boston, MA

Aimco is investing $195 million in the development of a 12-story building at One Canal Apartment Homes in the historic Bulfinch Triangle neighborhood of Boston’s West End. Located near the Boston Garden, one block from North Station and adjacent to the historic North End, the site enjoys excellent access to public transit, the Government Center, Financial District, and Massachusetts General Hospital employment centers, as well as the dining, recreation, and shopping amenities of its urban core location. The building will include 310 apartment homes and 22,000 square feet of commercial space. The investment in One Canal has been and will be funded in part by a 

114.0 million non-recourse property loan, of which $27.8 million was available to draw at December 31, 2015.

Aimco has approved a $5 million increase in scope, comprised of additional tenant improvements, enhanced penthouse units, improved kitchen layouts and common area enhancements. The additional tenant improvements are based on the execution of a 15-year lease for all of the commercial space. This lease commences in Spring 2016, approximately three and a half years earlier than contemplated in the project underwriting. The anticipated returns from the non-tenant improvement scope changes are commensurate with those of the overall project. The Projected Revenue per Apartment Home amounts in the accompanying schedule have not been updated for the scope changes or for market rent growth.

Construction completion is largely consistent with original expectations, although initial occupancy has been deferred from the end of March to mid-April, due to delays in utility connections in late 2015.

Vivo Apartment Homes

Cambridge, MA

During second quarter 2015, Aimco acquired Vivo Apartment Homes, an eight-story, 91-apartment home community under construction at the time of acquisition near Kendall Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Vivo is in a location contiguous to a large life science complex, occupancy of which is expected in late spring or early summer 2016.

Construction was completed in third quarter, in line with plan. Leasing activity during fourth quarter was in line with underwriting. Amenity finishes, including completion of a fitness center and finishes for a rooftop terrace, are scheduled to be completed in the summer of 2016. The estimated investment in these amenities is reflected in Aimco's estimated net investment at completion.

 30

GLOSSARY AND RECONCILIATIONS OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL AND OPERATING MEASURES

This Earnings Release and Supplemental Information include certain financial and operating measures used by Aimco management that are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Aimco's definitions and calculations of these non-GAAP financial and operating measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. These non-GAAP financial and operating measures should not be considered an alternative to GAAP net income or any other GAAP measurement of performance and should not be considered an alternative measure of liquidity. 

ACQUISITION APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Apartment Communities acquired since January 1, 2014.

AFFORDABLE APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Affordable Apartment Communities benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or state housing finance agencies, typically provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms, tax credits, or rental assistance payments to the owners of the communities. Under these programs, rent adjustments are made in accordance with property-specific contracts between Aimco and HUD, with rent increases generally based on an adjustment factor set by HUD annually.

AIMCO OP: AIMCO Properties, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, is the operating partnership in Aimco's UPREIT structure. Aimco owns approximately 95% of the common partnership units of the Aimco OP.

AIMCO PROPORTIONATE FINANCIAL INFORMATION: Non-GAAP measures representing Aimco's share of financial information discussed in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information. Aimco's proportionate share of financial information includes Aimco's share of unconsolidated real estate partnerships and excludes noncontrolling interests in consolidated real estate partnerships. Proportionate reporting benefits the users of Aimco's financial information by providing the amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities attributable only to Aimco stockholders. Aimco also refers to this measure as "Aimco's Share" of financial information. See Supplemental Schedules 2, 4 and 5 for reconciliation of Aimco's proportionate share of financial results to Aimco's consolidated financial statements.

AVERAGE AGE OF APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Calculated by Aimco on a property-by-property basis based on the year the community was originally built, adjusted for redevelopment and/or other major capital improvements that effectively reduce the age of the community. Such investments include construction of new buildings and/or amenities, replacement or modernization of mechanical, plumbing and electrical systems, and other investments that are consequential in nature. Portfolio average age is calculated on the basis of investment dollars. Market and portfolio Average Age of Apartment Communities is calculated on the basis of investment value.

CAPITAL ADDITIONS DEFINITIONS

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS (CI): CI includes all non-Redevelopment capital additions that are made to enhance the value, profitability or useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition.

CAPITAL REPLACEMENTS (CR): Unlike CI, CR does not increase the useful life of an asset from its original purchase condition. CR represents the portion of capital additions that are deemed to replace the consumed portion of acquired capital assets. CR is deducted in the calculation of AFFO.

CASUALTY CAPITAL ADDITIONS: Casualty capital additions represent capitalized costs incurred in connection with the restoration of an asset after a casualty event such as a hurricane, tornado or flood.

PROPERTY UPGRADES: Property Upgrades may include kitchen and bath remodeling; energy conservation projects; and investments in longer-lived materials designed to reduce turnover costs, such as simulated wood flooring and granite countertops. Property Upgrades differ from Redevelopment Additions in that they are generally lesser in scope and do not significantly disrupt property operations.

31

REDEVELOPMENT ADDITIONS: Redevelopment additions represent capital additions intended to enhance the value of the apartment community through the ability to generate higher average rental rates. Redevelopment additions may include costs related to entitlement, which enhance the value of a community through increased density, and costs related to renovation of exteriors, common areas or apartment homes.

CONVENTIONAL APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Conventional Apartment Communities represent Aimco's portfolio of market-rate apartment communities. Aimco's portfolio strategy seeks predictable rent growth from a portfolio of “A,” “B” and “C+” quality Conventional Apartment Communities, averaging “B/B+” in quality, and diversified among the largest coastal and job growth markets in the United States, as measured by apartment value.

DEBT RATIO DEFINITIONS

Aimco's leverage strategy targets the ratio of Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDA to be below 7.0x and the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to Adjusted Interest and Preferred Dividends to be greater than 2.5x. Aimco also focuses on the ratios of Debt to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Coverage of Interest. Aimco believes these ratios, which are based in part on non-GAAP financial information, are commonly used by investors and analysts to assess the relative financial risk associated with balance sheets of companies within the same industry, and they are believed to be similar to measures used by rating agencies to assess entity credit quality. 

ADJUSTED INTEREST EXPENSE: Adjusted Interest Expense represents Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense less (i) prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs and (ii) the amount of interest income recognized by Aimco related to its investment in the subordinated tranches in a securitization trust holding primarily Aimco property debt. Adjusted Interest Expense, as used in the debt ratios on Supplemental Schedule 5, is calculated as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

DEBT TO EBITDA RATIO:  The ratio of (a) Aimco's proportionate share of debt net of Aimco's proportionate share of cash and restricted cash and Aimco's investment in the subordinated tranches in a securitization trust holding primarily Aimco property debt to (b) Proportionate EBITDA.

DEBT AND PREFERRED EQUITY TO EBITDA RATIO: The ratio of (a) Aimco's proportionate share of debt net of Aimco's proportionate share of cash and restricted cash and Aimco's investment in the subordinated tranches in a securitization trust holding primarily Aimco property debt, plus Aimco's preferred stock and the preferred units of the Aimco OP to (b) Proportionate EBITDA.

DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO: As defined in Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, reduced by a $350 per apartment home capital expenditure allowance (which Aimco refers to as "Compliance EBITDA"), to (b) debt service, which represents the sum of (i) Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense (excluding prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs) and (ii) debt amortization, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.

FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO: As defined by Aimco's credit agreement, the ratio of (a) Compliance EBITDA to (b) fixed charges, which represent the sum of (i) Aimco's proportionate share of interest expense 

32

(excluding prepayment penalties and amortization of deferred financing costs), (ii) debt amortization and (iii) Preferred Dividends, for the four fiscal quarters preceding the date of calculation.

PREFERRED DIVIDENDS: Preferred dividends include dividends paid with respect to Aimco's Preferred Stock and the Aimco OP Preferred Partnership Units, exclusive of preferred equity redemption related amounts.

PREFERRED EQUITY: Preferred equity represents the redemption amounts for Aimco's Preferred Stock and the Aimco OP Preferred Partnership Units and may be found in Aimco's consolidated balance sheets.

EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAXES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION (EBITDA): EBITDA represents Aimco’s share of the consolidated amount of our net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of the following items for the reasons set forth below:

•interest, to allow investors to compare a measure of our earnings before the effects of our capital structure and indebtedness with that of other companies in the real estate industry;

•income taxes, to allow investors to measure our performance independent of income taxes, which may vary significantly from other companies within our industry due to leverage and tax planning strategies, among other drivers;

•depreciation and amortization, gains or losses on dispositions and impairment losses related to real estate, for similar reasons to those set forth in our discussion of FFO and AFFO below; and

•other items, including provisions for (or recoveries of) losses on notes receivable, gains on dispositions of non-depreciable assets and non-cash stock-based compensation, as these are items that periodically affect our operations but that are not necessarily representative of our ability to service our debt obligations;

A reconciliation of net income attributable to Aimco Common Stockholders to EBITDA for each of the periods presented is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

DEFERRED TAX CREDIT INCOME: Deferred income includes $25.8 million of unamortized cash contributions received by Aimco in exchange for the allocation of tax credits and related tax benefits to investors in tax credit arrangements. These cash contributions are deferred upon receipt and amortized into earnings in future periods as Aimco delivers the tax credits and related benefits to the investors. Under existing tax credit agreements, Aimco will receive additional cash contributions of $20.3 million, of which $5.1 million will be received on average each year from 2016 through 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EFFECTIVE APARTMENT HOMES: The number of actual apartment homes multiplied by Aimco's ownership interest in the apartment community as of the end of the current period. Effective Apartment Homes may be used to analyze Aimco's proportionate financial measures on a per-home basis. 

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO):  FFO is a commonly used measure of REIT performance, which the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains from sales of, and impairment losses recognized with respect to, depreciable property, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Aimco computes FFO for all periods presented in accordance with the guidance set forth by NAREIT.

In addition to FFO, Aimco uses PRO FORMA FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (Pro forma FFO) and ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO) to measure performance. Pro forma FFO represents FFO as defined above, excluding preferred equity redemption related amounts (adjusted for noncontrolling interests). Preferred equity redemption related amounts (gains or losses) are items that periodically affect Aimco's operating results. Aimco excludes preferred equity redemption related amounts (gains or losses) from Pro forma FFO because such amounts are not representative of operating performance. AFFO represents Pro forma FFO reduced by Capital Replacements (also adjusted for noncontrolling interests). 

FFO, Pro forma FFO and AFFO are helpful to investors in understanding Aimco's performance because they capture features particular to real estate performance by recognizing that real estate generally appreciates over time or maintains residual value to a much greater extent than other capital assets such as machinery, computers or other personal property. There can be no assurance that Aimco's method for computing FFO, Pro forma FFO or AFFO is comparable with that of other real estate investment trusts.

The following table reconciles GAAP net income per share to Pro forma FFO per share and AFFO per share, each as presented at the mid-point of Aimco's 2016 guidance:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FREE CASH FLOW CAP RATE: Free Cash Flow Cap Rate represents the NOI cap rate, adjusted for assumed Capital Replacements spending of $1,200 per apartment home.

MONEY-WEIGHTED AVERAGE INTEREST RATE: Money-Weighted Average Interest Rate represents the weighted average interest rate on Aimco’s fixed rate property debt, which takes into account the timing of amortization and maturities. This rate is calculated by Aimco based on the unpaid principal balance as of December 31, 2015, and all contractual debt service payments associated with each of its fixed rate property loans. The Money-Weighted Average Interest Rate can be compared to market interest rates to estimate the difference between the book value of Aimco’s fixed rate property debt and the market value of such debt.

34

NEW LEASE AND RENEWAL RATES: Aimco measures changes in rental rates by comparing, on a lease-by-lease basis, the rate on a newly executed lease to the rate on the expiring lease for that same apartment. Newly executed leases are classified as either a new lease, where a vacant apartment is leased to a new customer, or a renewal of an existing lease.

NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI) CAP RATE: NOI Cap Rate is calculated based on Aimco's share of the trailing twelve month prior to sale proportionate property NOI, less a 3.0% management fee, divided by Aimco gross proceeds.

OTHER AFFORDABLE APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Affordable Apartment Communities that do not meet the Same Store Apartment Community definition.

OTHER CONVENTIONAL APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Conventional Apartment Communities that do not meet the Same Store Apartment Community definition because they have significant rent control restrictions or have not reached and/or maintained a stabilized level of occupancy, often due to a casualty event, or are expected to be sold within the next 12 months. Results of operations of properties that are not multi-family, such as fitness centers, are included in the operating results of Other Conventional Apartment Communities.

OTHER EXPENSES, NET: Other expenses, net includes franchise taxes, risk management activities related to our unconsolidated partnerships, certain other corporate expenses and expenses specifically related to Aimco's administration of its real estate partnerships, for example, services such as audit, tax and legal.

PROPERTY NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI): NOI is defined by Aimco as total property rental and other property revenues less direct property operating expenses, including real estate taxes. NOI does not include: property management revenues, primarily from affiliates; casualties; property management expenses; depreciation; or interest expense. NOI is helpful because it helps both investors and management to understand the operating performance of real estate excluding costs associated with decisions about acquisition pricing, overhead allocations and financing arrangements. NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of real estate. Reconciliations of NOI as presented in this Earnings Release and Supplemental Information to Aimco's consolidated GAAP amounts are provided on the following pages.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

REDEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Communities currently under construction and those previously under construction but had not yet achieved stabilized operations as of January 1, 2014.

SAME STORE APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Same Store apartment communities are those that (a) are managed by Aimco, (b) have reached and maintained a stabilized level of occupancy as of January 1, 2014, and (c) are not expected to be sold within 12 months. Same Store apartment communities are classified as either Conventional or Affordable. Affordable Same Store apartment communities exclude those that are not subject to tax credit agreements, or have not reached and/or maintained a stabilized level of occupancy, often due to a casualty event.

SOLD AND HELD FOR SALE APARTMENT COMMUNITIES: Apartment communities either sold during the period or classified as held for sale at the end of the period. Results of operations and any gain or loss on sales of these apartment communities are included in continuing operations in Aimco's consolidated income statements. For purposes of highlighting results of operations related to Aimco's retained portfolio, results for Sold and Held For Sale Apartment Communities are excluded from Net Real Estate Operations and shown separately on a net basis in Aimco's Proportionate FFO presentation found in Supplemental Schedule 2.

36