8-K   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

_______________

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event

reported): February 17, 2016

Emerson Electric Co.

-------------------------------------------------

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(314) 553-2000

------------------------------------------

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:

¨ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

¨ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure

The following information is furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.

Emerson 3-Month Orders Growth

(Percentage change versus prior year; trailing 3-month averages, excluding acquisitions and divestitures, including currency translation)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

January 2016 Orders Comments

Trailing three-month orders decreased 9 percent as monthly orders continue to reflect low oil prices, reduced levels of industrial capital spending and strength of the U.S. dollar, which deducted 3 percentage points through currency translation. Underlying orders were down 6 percent. The Climate Technologies, Network Power and Commercial & Residential Solutions segments reflected slight to modest underlying trailing three-month orders growth in January. The January order trends support the Company's expectations that overall Emerson underlying trailing three-month orders will turn positive in April.

As disclosed in the Company's 8-K filed October 16, 2015, the Company has transitioned the release of orders data from monthly to quarterly, with releases scheduled to occur in the months of December, March, June and September each year. However, we may periodically make off-cycle releases, such as this one, to provide management the opportunity to discuss our orders performance with the investment community.

Upcoming Investor Events

On Thursday, February 18, 2016, Emerson Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Farr will present at the Barclays Industrial Conference in Miami, Florida at 8:15 a.m. ET.

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements

Statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K that are not strictly historical may be “forward-looking” statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. These risks and uncertainties include Emerson's ability to successfully complete on the terms and conditions contemplated, and the financial impact of, its strategic portfolio repositioning actions, as well as economic and currency conditions, market demand, pricing, protection of intellectual property, and competitive and technological factors, among others, as set forth in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC.

SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]