Form 8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

WASHINGTON, DC 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)  

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 25, 2016  

TYCO INTERNATIONAL PLC  

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)  

 Ireland   98-0390500 

 (Jurisdiction of Incorporation)    

(IRS Employer 

Identification Number)  

001-13836  

(Commission File Number)  

Unit 1202, Building 1000, City Gate  

Mahon, Cork, Ireland  

(Address of Principal Executive Offices, incl. Zip Code)  

353 423-5000  

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, including Area Code)  

Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  

 x Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ¨ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

 ¨ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

 Item 8.01. Other Events.  

On January 25, 2016, Tyco International plc (“Tyco”) and Johnson Controls, Inc. (“JCI”) issued a joint press release announcing the execution of an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 24, 2016, by and among Tyco, JCI and certain other parties named therein, including Jagara Merger Sub LLC, a Wisconsin limited liability company and indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Tyco. A copy of the joint press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.  

On January 25, 2016, Tyco also provided supplemental information regarding the proposed transaction in connection with a presentation to investors. A copy of the investor presentation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated by reference herein.  

***********  

NO OFFER OR SOLICITATION  

This communication is not intended to and does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to subscribe for or buy or an invitation to purchase or subscribe for any securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction, nor shall there be any sale, issuance or transfer of securities in any jurisdiction in contravention of applicable law.  

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT  

In connection with the proposed transaction between Johnson Controls, Inc. (“JCI”) and Tyco International plc (“Tyco”), Tyco will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement of JCI and Tyco that also constitutes a prospectus of Tyco (the “Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus”). JCI and Tyco plan to mail to their respective shareholders the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus in connection with the transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF JCI AND TYCO ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT JCI, TYCO, THE TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by JCI and Tyco through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by JCI by contacting JCI Shareholder Services at Shareholder.Services@jci.com or by calling (800) 524-6220 and will be able to obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Tyco by contacting Tyco Investor Relations at Investorrelations@tyco.com or by calling (609) 720-4333.  

PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION  

JCI, Tyco and certain of their respective directors, executive officers and employees may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed participants in the solicitation of the respective shareholders of JCI and Tyco in connection with the proposed transactions, including a description of their direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be set forth in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus when it is filed with the SEC. Information regarding JCI’s directors and executive officers is contained in JCI’s proxy statement for its 2016 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on December 14, 2015. Information regarding Tyco’s directors and executive officers is contained in Tyco’s proxy statement for its 2016 annual meeting of shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on January 15, 2016.  

Tyco Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This communication contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, but not limited to, Tyco’s expectations or predictions of future financial or business performance or conditions. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “continue,” “positions,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “prospects,” “possible” or “potential,” by future conditional verbs such as “assume,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “could” or “may”, or by variations of such words or by similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we assume no duty to update forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from current projections.  

Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about the consummation of the proposed transaction. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements, including, in addition to factors previously disclosed in Tyco’s reports filed with the SEC, which are available at www.sec.gov and www.Tyco.com under the “Investor Relations” tab, and those identified elsewhere in this communication, risks relating to the completion of the proposed transaction on anticipated terms and timing, including obtaining shareholder and regulatory approvals, anticipated tax treatment, unforeseen liabilities, future capital expenditures, revenues, expenses, earnings, synergies, economic performance, indebtedness, financial condition, losses, future prospects, business and management strategies for the management, expansion and growth of the new combined company’s operations, the ability of Tyco and JCI to integrate their businesses successfully and to achieve anticipated synergies, changes in tax laws or interpretations, access to available financing, potential litigation relating to the proposed transaction, and the risk that disruptions from the proposed transaction will harm Tyco’s business.  

Annualized, pro forma, projected and estimated numbers are used for illustrative purpose only, are not forecasts and may not reflect actual results.  

JCI Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

There may be statements in this communication that are, or could be, “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and, therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, statements regarding JCI’s or the combined company’s future financial position, sales, costs, earnings, cash flows, other measures of results of operations, capital expenditures or debt levels are forward-looking statements. Words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “should,” “forecast,” “project” or “plan” or terms of similar meaning are also generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. JCI cautions that these statements are subject to numerous important risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors, some of which are beyond JCI’s control, that could cause JCI’s or the combined company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, among others, risks related to: JCI’s and/or Tyco’s ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and shareholder approvals or to satisfy any of the other conditions to the transaction on a timely basis or at all, any delay or inability of the combined company to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the transaction, changes in tax laws, regulations, rates, policies or interpretations, the loss of key senior management, anticipated tax treatment of the combined company, the value of the Tyco shares to be issued in the transaction, significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities, potential litigation relating to the  

 proposed transaction, the risk that disruptions from the proposed transaction will harm JCI’s business, competitive responses to the proposed transaction and general economic and business conditions that affect the combined company following the transaction. A detailed discussion of risks related to JCI’s business is included in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in JCI’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015 filed with the SEC on November 18, 2015 and available at www.sec.gov and www.JohnsonControls.com under the “Investors” tab. Any forward-looking statements in this communication are only made as of the date of this communication, unless otherwise specified, and, except as required by law, JCI assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this communication.  

Statement Required by the Irish Takeover Rules  

The directors of Tyco accept responsibility for the information contained in this communication relating to Tyco and the directors of Tyco and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Tyco (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure such is the case), the information contained in this communication for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.  

The directors of JCI accept responsibility for the information contained in this communication other than that relating to Tyco and the Tyco group of companies and the directors of Tyco and members of their immediate families, related trusts and persons connected with them. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of JCI (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this communication for which they accept responsibility is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.  

Lazard Freres & Co. LLC, which is a registered broker dealer with the SEC, is acting for Tyco and no one else in connection with the proposed transaction and will not be responsible to anyone other than Tyco for providing the protections afforded to clients of Lazard Freres & Co. LLC, or for giving advice in connection with the proposed transaction or any matter referred to herein.  

Centerview Partners LLC is a broker dealer registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and is acting as financial advisor to JCI and no one else in connection with the proposed transaction. In connection with the proposed transaction, Centerview Partners LLC, its affiliates and related entities and its and their respective partners, directors, officers, employees and agents will not regard any other person as their client, nor will they be responsible to anyone other than JCI for providing the protections afforded to their clients or for giving advice in connection with the proposed transaction or any other matter referred to in this announcement.  

Barclays Capital Inc. is a broker dealer registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and is acting as financial advisor to JCI and no one else in connection with the proposed transaction. In connection with the proposed transaction, Barclays Capital Inc., its affiliates and related entities and its and their respective partners, directors, officers, employees and agents will not regard any other person as their client, nor will they be responsible to anyone other than JCI for providing the protections afforded to their clients or for giving advice in connection with the proposed transaction or any other matter referred to in this announcement.  

NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, IN, INTO OR FROM ANY JURISDICTION WHERE TO DO SO WOULD CONSTITUTE A VIOLATION OF THE RELEVANT LAWS OR REGULATIONS OF SUCH JURISDICTION.  

This communication is not intended to be and is not a prospectus for the purposes of Part 23 of the Companies Act 2014 of Ireland (the “2014 Act”), Prospectus (Directive 2003/71/EC) Regulations 2005 (S.I. No. 324 of 2005) of Ireland (as amended from time to time) or the Prospectus Rules issued by the Central Bank of Ireland pursuant to section 1363 of the 2014 Act, and the Central Bank of Ireland (“CBI”) has not approved this communication.  

 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

(d) Exhibits  

 99.1   Joint Press Release, dated January 25, 2016 

 99.2   Investor Presentation, dated January 25, 2016  

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

EXHIBIT INDEX  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]