UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 11, 2016 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

 [ ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

 [ ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

 [ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

 [ ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))   

 Section 8 - Other Events 

Item 8.01 Other Events 

On January 11, 2016, Louisville Gas and Electric Company ("LG&E") and Kentucky Utilities Company ("KU" and, together with LG&E, the "Companies") issued press releases announcing that they plan to submit applications to the Kentucky Public Service Commission ("KPSC") for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity ("CPCN") and for Environmental Cost Recovery ("ECR") rate treatment regarding the Companies' upcoming environmental construction projects relating to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's regulations addressing the handling of coal combustion byproducts and the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards. The CPCN and ECR applications are anticipated to be filed on or about January 29, 2016. 

The construction projects are expected to begin in 2016 and continue through 2023 and are estimated to cost approximately $316 million at LG&E and $678 million at KU. The planned applications request an authorized 10% return on equity with respect to the Companies' ECR tracker rate mechanism. 

Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits 

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Statements in this report and the accompanying press release, including statements with respect to future events and their timing, including the Companies' future rates, rate mechanisms or returns on equity ultimately authorized or achieved, as well as statements as to future costs or expenses, regulation, corporate strategy and performance, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Although the Companies believe that the expectations and assumptions reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, these expectations, assumptions and statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the statements. The following are among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements: subsequent phases of rate proceedings and regulatory cost recovery; market demand and prices for electricity; political, regulatory or economic conditions in states and regions where the Companies conduct business; and the progress of actual construction, purchase or installation of assets or operations subject to tracker mechanisms. Any such forward-looking statements should be considered in light of such important factors and in conjunction with PPL Corporation's, LG&E and KU Energy LLC's and the Companies' Form 10-K and other reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

   PPL CORPORATION 

   By: /s/ Stephen K. Breininger   

Stephen K. Breininger 

Vice President and Controller    

   LG&E AND KU ENERGY LLC 

   By: /s/ Kent W. Blake   

Kent W. Blake 

Chief Financial Officer    

   LOUISVILLE GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 

   By: /s/ Kent W. Blake   

Kent W. Blake 

Chief Financial Officer    

   KENTUCKY UTILITIES COMPANY 

   By: /s/ Kent W. Blake   

Kent W. Blake 

Chief Financial Officer    

Dated: January 12, 2016