Exhibit   

EXHIBIT 99.1

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 

Investor Relations 847-607-2012

Conference call to be held February 4, 2016 4:00 p.m. Central time – Dial 866-516-6872 at least 5 minutes before start time. If you are unable to participate on the call, a replay will be available through March 4th by dialing 855-859-2056, access code 21498985. To hear a live simulcast of the call or access the audio archive, visit the investor relations page on www.stericycle.com.

STERICYCLE, INC. REPORTS RESULTS 

FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR ENDED 2015

Lake Forest, Illinois, February 4, 2016—Stericycle, Inc. (NASDAQ:SRCL) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2015. 

FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS

Revenues for the quarter ended December 31, 2015 were $888.3 million, up $211.4 million or 31.2%, from $676.9 million in the fourth quarter last year. Acquisitions contributed approximately $200.0 million in revenues to the current period’s growth. Revenues increased 35.2% compared to the prior period when adjusted for unfavorable foreign exchange impact of $26.9 million. 

Gross profit, reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), was $380.4 million, up 33.5% from $285.0 million in the fourth quarter last year. GAAP gross profit as a percent of revenues was 42.8% compared to 42.1% in the fourth quarter last year. Non-GAAP gross profit, when adjusted for various items identified in the second of the following tables, was $380.9 million, up 33.5% from $285.4 million in the fourth quarter last year. Non-GAAP gross profit as a percent of revenues was 42.9% compared to 42.2% in the fourth quarter last year. 

GAAP earnings per diluted share decreased 16.4% to $0.80 from $0.96 in the fourth quarter last year. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, when adjusted for various items identified in the third of the following tables, decreased 0.9% to $1.11 from $1.12 in the fourth quarter last year. See tables below.

FULL-YEAR RESULTS

Revenues for the full year 2015 were $2.99 billion, up $430.3 million or 16.8%, from $2.56 billion in the same period last year. Acquisitions contributed approximately $378.5 million in revenues to the current year’s growth. Revenues increased 21.2% compared with the prior period when adjusted for unfavorable foreign exchange impact of $110.2 million.

GAAP gross profit was $1.27 billion, up 15.7% from $1.09 billion in the same period last year. GAAP gross profit as a percent of revenues was 42.4% compared to 42.8% in the same period last year. Non-GAAP gross profit, when adjusted for various items identified in the second of the following tables, was $1.27 billion, up 15.5% from $1.10 billion in the same period as last year. Non-GAAP gross profit as a percent of revenues was 42.5% compared to 42.9% in the same period last year. 

GAAP earnings per diluted share decreased 21.7% to $2.96 from $3.79 in 2014. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, when adjusted for various items identified in the third of the following tables, increased 3.0% to $4.40 from $4.27. See tables below.

1

The following table shows our calculations of organic revenue growth (in millions)(1) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For internal purposes, we exclude the impact of foreign exchange, revenues attributed to acquisitions closed within the preceding 12 months, and revenue from our regulated returns and recall management services when we evaluate organic revenue growth. 

This table and the Company’s internal use of non-GAAP adjusted revenues are not intended to imply, and should not be interpreted as implying, that non-GAAP adjusted revenues are a better measure of internal growth or the Company’s performance, as compared to GAAP revenues.

Table to reconcile GAAP Gross Profit to Non-GAAP Gross Profit (in millions)(2) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) In accordance with GAAP, reported Gross Profit includes the impact of the items identified in this table. For internal purposes, including the determination of management compensation, the Company excludes these items from results when evaluating operating performance. 

This table and the Company’s internal use of non-GAAP Gross Profit are not intended to imply, and should not be interpreted as implying, that non-GAAP Gross Profit is a better measure of performance than GAAP Gross Profit.

2

Table to reconcile GAAP EPS to Non-GAAP EPS(3) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3a) In accordance with GAAP, reported earnings per diluted share (EPS) include the after-tax impact of the items identified. For internal purposes, including the determination of management compensation, the Company excludes these items from results when evaluating operating performance. 

(3b) For purposes of determining non-GAAP EPS, the Company (1) adds back the mandatory convertible preferred stock dividend; and (2) deducts the EPS impact of the items identified above and the mandatory convertible preferred stock dividend using the “if-converted” method. Under the “if-converted” method used in determining our non-GAAP EPS, the items identified above and the preferred dividend applicable to the convertible preferred stock is added back to net income attributable to Stericycle, the numerator. The Mandatory Convertible Preferred shares are assumed to be converted to common shares at the beginning of the period or, if later, at the time of issuance, and the resulting common shares are included in the denominator. 

This table and the Company’s internal use of non-GAAP earnings per diluted share are not intended to imply, and should not be interpreted as implying, that non-GAAP earnings per diluted share is a better measure of performance than GAAP earnings per diluted share.

Cash flow from operations was $390.3 million and $448.5 million for the full years of 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

For more information about Stericycle, please visit our website at www.stericycle.com.

Safe Harbor Statement: This press release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control (for example, general economic and market conditions). Our actual results could differ significantly from the results described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include changes in governmental regulation of the collection, transportation, treatment and disposal of regulated waste or the proper handling and protection of personal and confidential information, increases in transportation and other operating costs, the level of governmental enforcement of regulations governing regulated waste collection and treatment or the proper handling and protection of personal and confidential information, our obligations to service our substantial indebtedness and to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our private placement notes, term loan credit facility and revolving credit facility, our ability to execute our acquisition strategy and to integrate acquired businesses, competition and demand for services in the regulated waste and secure information destruction industries, political, economic and currency risks related to our foreign operations, impairments of goodwill 

3

or other indefinite-lived intangibles, variability in the demand for services we provide on a project or non-recurring basis, exposure to environmental liabilities, fluctuations in the price we receive for the sale of paper, disruptions in or attacks on our information technology systems, compliance with existing and future legal and regulatory requirements, as well as other factors described in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate future results or trends. We make no commitment to disclose any subsequent revisions to forward-looking statements.

4

STERICYCLE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(IN THOUSANDS)

(UNAUDITED)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

STERICYCLE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

(UNAUDITED)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

STERICYCLE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

(IN THOUSANDS)

(UNAUDITED)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7