PART I 

ITEM 1. OUR BUSINESS

Alaska Air Group is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1985 that operates two airlines, Alaska and Horizon. Alaska was organized in 1932 and incorporated in 1937 in the state of Alaska. Horizon is a Washington corporation that was incorporated and began service in 1981, and was acquired by Air Group in 1986. Virgin America was a member of Air Group since it was acquired in 2016 until 2018, when Alaska and Virgin America combined operating certificates to become a single airline, and legally merged into a single entity. The Company also includes McGee Air Services, an aviation services provider that was established as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alaska in 2016. 

Alaska and Horizon operate as separate airlines, with individual business plans, competitive factors and economic risks. Together with our regional airline partners, we fly to 115 destinations with over 1,300 daily departures through an expansive network across the U.S., Mexico, Canada, and Costa Rica. With global airline partners, we provide our guests with a network of more than 800 destinations worldwide. During 2019, we carried an all-time high 47 million guests and earned consolidated net income under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of $769 million compared to net income of $437 million in 2018. Our adjusted net income was $798 million, which excludes merger-related costs and mark-to-market fuel hedge adjustments. Refer to "Results of Operations" in Management's Discussion and Analysis for our reconciliation of Non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 

We organize the business and review financial operating performance by aggregating our business in three operating segments, which are as follows:

•Mainline - includes scheduled air transportation on Alaska's Boeing and Airbus jet aircraft for passengers and cargo throughout the U.S., and in parts of Mexico, and Costa Rica. 

•Regional - includes Horizon's and other third-party carriers’ scheduled air transportation for passengers across a shorter distance network within the U.S. under capacity purchase agreements (CPA). This segment includes the actual revenues and expenses associated with regional flying, as well as an allocation of corporate overhead incurred by Air Group on behalf of the regional operations. 

•Horizon - includes the capacity sold to Alaska under a CPA. Expenses include those typically borne by regional airlines such as crew costs, ownership costs and maintenance costs. 

Our purpose is "creating an airline people love." The "ing" is to recognize that we are never done; we are continually working to improve. We believe our success depends on our ability to provide safe air transportation, develop relationships with guests by providing exceptional customer service and low fares, and maintain a low cost structure to compete effectively. It is important to us that we achieve our objective as a socially responsible company that values not just performance, but also our people, the communities we serve, and the environment. 

We marked the 16th consecutive year of profitability on an adjusted basis in 2019. Our liquidity and capital position remain strong, positioning us among other high-quality industrial companies. Due to our strong financial health and outlook, we are one of only three U.S. airlines with investment grade credit ratings. The cash generated by our continued success enables us to invest in our business to deliver profitable growth, enhance our guests' experience, and improve our financial position. 

We are active in the communities we serve and strive to be an industry leader in environmental and community stewardship. In 2019, Air Group donated $15 million in cash and in-kind travel to over 1,200 charitable organizations, and our employees volunteered more than 41,000 hours of community service related to youth and education, medical research and transportation. One of our leadership principles is to "give back" and we are proud of the efforts and voluntarism of our employees. Also in 2019, we launched LIFT, our social and environmental impact program aimed at uniting all of our social and environmental impact efforts. Through this program, our guests also showed great generosity, donating 72 million miles in 2019 for donation to charitable organizations. As recognition of our community leadership, financial stability and the fact that our combined fleet is one of the youngest and most fuel-efficient in North America, we ranked higher than any other North American airline for the third year in a row on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 

In 2019, we completed the majority of the remaining integration milestones from our acquisition of Virgin America. During the year, Alaska flight attendants began flying as integrated crews and our pilots adopted an integrated seniority list. In July 2019, Alaska aircraft maintenance technicians, represented by the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA), ratified an 

4

agreement bringing our last work group under a single collective bargaining agreement. We also finished painting the remainder of the Airbus fleet in the Alaska livery, and completed interior cabin renovations on 60% of the Airbus fleet. 

With the integration largely behind us, we have shifted our focus towards our vision and strategy for the next five years. This strategy has three major pillars:

People:

Our success depends on our more than 24,000 employees living our values every day to deliver award-winning customer service as one team. We know engaged employees deliver higher productivity, superior execution and better guest experiences, which is why investing in our people is imperative to our future success. 

In 2019, we completed Flight Path - a program that brought all Alaska and Horizon employees together through leader-led sessions to inform, engage and set the course for our business and culture. Aside from one-time programs, we continue to communicate with employees through a variety of vehicles, including weekly Leader Look Ahead and periodic live-streamed webcasts, to provide employees better information and a stronger connection to organizational priorities. Our efforts were recognized by Forbes Magazine, who named Alaska as one of the World's Best Employers for the fifth year in a row for 2019, and as one of America's Best Employers for Diversity in 2020. 

Aligning our employees' goals with Air Group's goals has been an important contributor to our strong track record of accomplishments and financial performance. The majority of Alaska and Horizon employees participate in our Performance-Based Pay (PBP) and Operational Performance Rewards (OPR) programs, which encourage employees to work together to achieve metrics related to the Company's strategy - including safety, profitability, on-time performance, low costs, customer loyalty and customer satisfaction. Over the last ten years, our incentive programs have paid out on average more than one month's pay for most employees. In 2019, our employees earned more than $150 million under these incentive programs.

Growth:

Driving growth will require our focus in a variety of areas, including a powerful brand, optimized network and strong revenue generation. 

•Powerful brand - Providing genuine and caring service to our guests is key to our success and loyalty to the Alaska brand. This service is demonstrated daily by our employees who are empowered to make the best choices for our guests. As proof, in 2019, Alaska ranked first in the J.D. Power and Associates annual survey of customer satisfaction among traditional network carriers for the 12th year in a row. Alaska was also recognized for excellent service by Condé Nast Traveler and Travel + Leisure magazine for the second consecutive year, continuing an achievement earned by Virgin America for the preceding ten years. 

Our award winning Mileage PlanTM is another way we build long-term guest relationships and grow our brand. We maintain the only distance-based frequent flier program in the United States, which rewards all fliers regardless of the price they paid for their tickets. In 2019, we increased our sign-up promotion for new cardholders to 40,000 miles, providing immediate utility of the program. We also offered promotions like Buy One Get One Free companion fares and continued popular redemption benefits, including using miles for hotel redemptions (with access to over 400,000 hotels worldwide), and adding EL AL Airlines as a new global partner.

Over the past two years, we initiated a refresh of many of our amenities with the aim of highlighting our West Coast roots. From updated on-board offerings, including fresh and local food, to local craft beers and wines, as well as updating our in-air Wi-Fi to meet the evolving needs of our guests, we will continue to innovate and evolve to provide our guests with the best experience. Work towards updated guest-facing amenities continued in 2019, with our flagship lounge opening in the North Satellite at Sea-Tac Airport, as well as the announcement of a new lounge at San Francisco International Airport, which is expected to open in the second half of 2020. We also strive to connect with West Coast guests through key sponsorships including Russell Wilson, the San Jose Sharks, San Francisco Giants, Seattle Mariners, Portland Timbers, Seattle's new NHL team, and more. 

•Optimized Network - The acquisition of Virgin America positioned us as the fifth largest airline in the U.S., with an unparalleled ability to serve West Coast travelers. We offer the highest guest relevance of any carrier from the West Coast. Competition in our markets is significant, and we know that we must defend our customer base as we grow our network presence by providing guests with an increased choice of schedule times and fares. We are intensely focused on providing the most utility and routes to our guests. From our West Coast hub cities, we lead all other airlines in 

5

non-stop markets, daily flights and seat share. In 2019, we began departures from Paine Field-Snohomish County Airport in Everett, Washington to ten West Coast markets. We also optimized our current network, and reallocated flying to expand offerings between the Pacific Northwest and California, increasing network utility and providing more non-stop service on the West Coast. 

•Revenue Generation -  In 2018, we introduced our Saver Fare product, which offers greater choice for our guests, allowing them to purchase and pay for the ticket type and other amenities they value most. In 2019, our Saver Fare product provided meaningful revenue growth, and is expected to continue to provide incremental revenue into 2020. This, combined with synergies from the merger, which are expected to hit their full run rate in 2021, and capacity growth, will enable us to continue to grow our annual revenues. Innovation will also be key to growth in our revenues. We will focus our efforts on merchandising and demand generation, including through a variety of unique marketing strategies aimed at increasing revenues in typically off-peak periods. 

Business Model:

Safety is the foundation of everything we do and remains our top priority. We have an unwavering commitment to run a safe operation, and we will not compromise this commitment in the pursuit of other initiatives. Alaska and Horizon were the first U.S. major airlines to receive FAA validation and acceptance of their Safety Management Systems (SMS) in 2016. In 2018, we used SMS to safely and consistently guide our integration with the legacy Virgin America operation. Report It!, our mobile safety reporting application, makes it easier for employees to file safety reports. In 2018, 100% of our Alaska and Horizon aircraft technicians completed the requirements for the FAA's "Diamond Certificate of Excellence" award, marking the 17th consecutive year Alaska has received the award, and the 17th time in the last 19 years Horizon has received this award. In early 2020, we were again included as one of only two U.S. airlines on the AirlineRatings.com list of the world's Top 20 safest airlines. We believe that maintaining safe operations, through adherence to well-defined processes and ensuring every Air Group employee is aware of their individual contribution to our operation, is critical to ensuring on-time performance. The rigor we apply to running a safe operation has resulted in Alaska consistently being one of the top airlines in North America for on-time performance; and Horizon was recognized once again as the leader in on-time performance in 2019 among regional airlines.

Ultimately, our success will be driven by our business model being flexible and innovative as we drive towards our pretax margin goals of 13% to 15%, and our growth goals of 4% to 6% over the business cycle. We know that in order to provide low fares in our growing network while generating strong returns for our shareholders, it is imperative for us to maintain a competitive cost structure. In 2019, our unit costs, excluding fuel and special items, increased 2.3% on a consolidated basis. Although our unit costs are expected to rise again in 2020, primarily due to general wage inflation, higher engine maintenance on both our Airbus and B737-800 fleets, and increased lease return costs associated with our Airbus fleet, we will continue our focus on lowering overhead, improving productivity, and managing vendor costs. We are also actively managing fuel costs by flying larger, more fuel-efficient aircraft, which has increased our fuel efficiency as measured by available seat miles flown per gallon by 1.6% over the last five years. We have a long track record of effective cost control, and we remain keenly committed to protecting our unit cost advantage relative to competitors.

AIR GROUP

Our airlines operate different aircraft and missions. Alaska operates a fleet of narrowbody passenger jets on primarily longer-haul capacity. Alaska contracts primarily with Horizon and SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) for shorter-haul capacity, such that Alaska receives all passenger revenue from those flights. Horizon operates Embraer 175 (E175) regional jet aircraft and Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft and sells all of its capacity to Alaska pursuant to a CPA. The majority of our revenues are generated by transporting passengers. The percentage of revenues by category is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes information for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016.

(b)As a result of the new revenue recognition standards, certain financial statement line items were modified to address new requirements. We did not apply this change to fiscal year 2015, and have left the captioning above as it was presented in that fiscal year. 

6

We deploy aircraft in ways that we believe will best optimize our revenues and profitability and reduce the impacts of seasonality.

The percentage of our capacity by region is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes information for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016.

(b)Category represents flying within the West Coast. Departures from the West Coast to other regions are captured in other categories. 

MAINLINE

Our Mainline operations include Boeing 737 (B737) and Airbus A320 family (A319, A320, and A321neo) jet service offered by Alaska. We offer extensive passenger service from the western U.S. throughout the contiguous United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, and Costa Rica. Our largest concentrations of departures are in Seattle, Portland, and the Bay Area. We also offer cargo service throughout our network and have three dedicated cargo aircraft that operate primarily to and within the state of Alaska. 

In 2019, we carried 36 million revenue passengers in our Mainline operations. At December 31, 2019, our Mainline operating fleet consisted of 166 Boeing 737 jet aircraft and 71 Airbus A320 family jet aircraft compared to 162 B737 aircraft and 71 Airbus aircraft as of December 31, 2018.

The percentage of Mainline passenger capacity by region and average stage length is presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes information for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016.

(b)Category represents flying within the West Coast. Departures from the West Coast to other regions are captured in other categories.

REGIONAL

Our Regional operations consist primarily of flights operated by Horizon and SkyWest. In 2019, our Regional operations carried approximately 11 million revenue passengers, primarily in the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California. Horizon is the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest and carries approximately 70% of Air Group's regional revenue passengers. 

Based on 2019 Horizon passenger enplanements on regional aircraft, our most significant concentration of regional activity was in Seattle and Portland. At December 31, 2019, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of 30 E175 jet aircraft and 33 Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft. The regional fleet operated by SkyWest consisted of 32 E175 aircraft.

7

The percentage of regional passenger capacity by region and average stage length is presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAM 

Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan™ provides a comprehensive suite of frequent flyer benefits. Miles can be earned by flying on our airlines or on one of our 18 airline partners, by using an Alaska Airlines credit card, or through other non-airline partners. Alaska's extensive list of airline partners includes carriers associated with each of the three major global alliances, making it easier for our members to earn miles and reach elite status in our frequent flyer program. Through Alaska and our global partners, Mileage Plan™ members have access to a large network of over 800 worldwide travel destinations. Further, members can receive up to 40,000 bonus miles upon signing up for the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature card and meeting a minimum spend threshold, and earn triple miles on Alaska Airlines purchases. Alaska Airlines Visa Signature cardholders and small business cardholders in the U.S., and Platinum and World Elite Mastercard cardholders in Canada, also receive an annual companion ticket that allows members to purchase an additional ticket for $99 plus taxes, with no restrictions or black-out dates, and a free first checked bag for up to six people traveling on the same itinerary. Earned miles can be redeemed for flights on our airlines, or our partner airlines, for hotel stays via mileageplanhotels.com, or for upgrades to First Class on Alaska Airlines. We believe all of these benefits give our Mileage Plan™ members more value than competing programs.

Mileage Plan™ revenues, including those in the Passenger revenue income statement line item, represented approximately 13% of Air Group's total revenues in 2019. Mileage Plan™ helps drive revenue growth by attracting new customers, keeping existing customers actively engaged, and building customer loyalty through the benefits that we provide. 

AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER AIRLINES

Our agreements fall into three different categories: frequent flyer, codeshare and interline agreements. Frequent flyer agreements enable our Mileage PlanTM members to earn mileage credits and make redemptions on one of our 18 domestic and international partner airlines. 

Codeshare agreements allow one or more marketing carriers to sell seats on a single operating carrier that services passengers under multiple flight numbers. The sale of codeshare seats can vary depending on the sale arrangement. For example, in a free-sale arrangement, the marketing carrier sells the operating carrier's inventory without any restriction; whereas in a block-space arrangement, a fixed amount of seats are sold to the marketing carrier by the operating carrier. The interchangeability of the flight code between carriers provides a greater selection of flights for customers, along with increased flexibility for mileage accrual and redemption. 

Interline agreements allow airlines to jointly offer a competitive, single-fare itinerary to customers traveling via multiple carriers to a final destination. An interline itinerary offered by one airline may not necessarily be offered by the other, and the fares collected from passengers are prorated and distributed to interline partners according to preexisting agreements between the carriers. Frequent flyer, codeshare and interline agreements help increase our traffic and revenue by providing a more diverse network and schedule options to our guests. 

Alaska has marketing alliances with a number of airlines that provide frequent flyer and codesharing opportunities. Alliances are an important part of our strategy and enhance our revenues by:

•offering our guests more travel destinations and better mileage credit/redemption opportunities, including elite qualifying miles on U.S. and international airline partners;

8

•giving our Mileage PlanTM program a competitive advantage because of our partnership with both unaffiliated international carriers and carriers from all three major worldwide alliances;

•giving us access to more connecting traffic from other airlines; and

•providing members of our alliance partners’ frequent flyer programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska and our regional partners while earning mileage credit in our partners’ programs.

Most of our codeshare relationships are free-sale codeshares, where the marketing carrier sells seats on the operating carrier’s flights from the operating carrier’s inventory, but takes no inventory risk. Our marketing agreements have various termination dates, and one or more may be in the process of renegotiation at any time. Our codeshare and interline agreements generated 5%, 5%, and 6% of our total marketed revenues as of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. 

The comprehensive summary of Alaska's alliances with other airlines is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)These airlines do not have their own frequent flyer program. However, Alaska's Mileage PlanTM members can earn and redeem miles on these airlines' route systems.

CARGO AND OTHER REVENUE

The Company provides freight and mail services (cargo). The majority of cargo services are provided to commercial businesses and the United States Postal Service. The Company satisfies cargo service performance obligations and recognizes revenue when the shipment arrives at its final destination, or is transferred to a third-party carrier for delivery.

The Company also earns other revenue for lounge memberships, hotel and car commissions, and certain other immaterial items not intrinsically tied to providing air travel to passengers. Revenue is recognized when these services are rendered and recorded as Cargo and other revenue.

9

GENERAL

The airline industry is highly competitive and subject to various uncertainties, including economic conditions, volatile fuel prices, a largely unionized work force, the need to finance large capital expenditures and the related availability of capital, government regulation—including taxes and fees, and potential aircraft incidents. Airlines have high fixed costs, primarily for wages, aircraft fuel, aircraft ownership and facilities rents. Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly based on the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results. In other words, a minor shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative impact to our operating and financial results. Passenger demand and ticket prices are, in large measure, influenced by the general state of the economy, current global economic and political events, and total available airline seat capacity.

In 2019, the airline industry posted another year of profits, and increases over 2018, primarily due to lower fuel prices. Although growth was impacted in 2019 following the grounding of the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, airlines have continued to make significant investments in airports and new services to differentiate their customer service offering. Thus, the level of competition is expected to continue to increase. 

FUEL

Our business and financial results are highly impacted by the price and the availability of aircraft fuel. Aircraft fuel expense includes raw fuel expense, or the price that we generally pay at the airport, including taxes and fees, plus the effect of mark-to-market adjustments to our fuel hedge portfolio as the value of that portfolio increases and decreases. The cost of aircraft fuel is volatile and outside of our control, and it can have a significant and immediate impact on our operating results. Over the past five years, aircraft fuel expense ranged from 18% to 25% of operating expenses. Fuel prices are impacted by changes in both the price of crude oil and refining costs and can vary by region in the U.S.

The price of crude oil on an average annual basis for the past five years has ranged from a low of $43 per barrel in 2016 to a high of $65 in 2018. For us, a $1 per barrel change in the price of oil equates to approximately $21 million of fuel cost annually. Said another way, a one-cent change in our fuel price per gallon will impact our expected annual fuel cost by approximately $9 million per year.

Refining margins, which represent the price of refining crude oil into aircraft fuel, are a smaller portion of the overall price of jet fuel, but have also contributed to the price volatility in recent years. Over the last five years, average annual West Coast refining margin prices have fluctuated from a low of $13 per barrel in 2016 to a high of $26 per barrel in 2019.

Generally, West Coast jet fuel prices are somewhat higher and more volatile than prices in the Gulf Coast or on the East Coast. Our average raw fuel cost per gallon decreased 6% in 2019, after increasing 28% in 2018 and increasing 21% in 2017.

The percentages of our aircraft fuel expense by crude oil and refining margins, as well as the percentage of our aircraft fuel expense of operating expenses, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes information for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016.

(b)Other includes gains and losses on settled fuel hedges, unrealized mark-to-market fuel hedge gains or losses, taxes and other into-plane costs.

We use crude oil call options as hedges against our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices. Call options effectively cap our price for crude oil, limiting our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel consumption. With call options, we are hedged against spikes in crude oil prices, and during a period of declines in crude oil prices, we only forfeit cash previously paid for hedge premiums. We begin hedging approximately 18 months in advance of consumption.

10

We believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft and executing on operational best practices are the best hedges against high fuel prices. Maintaining a young, fuel-efficient fleet helps to reduce our fuel consumption rate, but also the amount of greenhouse gases and other pollutants that our aircraft emit.

COMPETITION

Competition in the airline industry is intense and unpredictable. Our competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation. Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport. We compete with other domestic airlines and a limited number of international airlines on nearly all of our scheduled routes. Our largest competitor is Delta Airlines Inc. (Delta), who has significantly increased its capacity in Seattle since 2013. Approximately 76% of our capacity to and from Seattle competes with Delta. As we have grown in California and have expanded our transcontinental route offerings, United Airlines and Southwest Airlines have also become large competitors and have increased their capacity in markets we serve. Our California and transcontinental routes have a higher concentration of competitors when compared to our historical route structure, which was predominately concentrated in the Pacific Northwest. Based on schedules filed with the U.S. Department of Transportation, we expect the amount of competitive capacity overlap with all carriers to increase by more than 1% in the first quarter of 2020, weighted based on our network. 

We believe that the following principal competitive factors are important to our guests:

•Safety

Safety is our top priority and is at the core of everything we do. In early 2020, Alaska was again ranked by AirlineRatings.com as one of only two U.S. airlines in the Top 20 safest airlines in the world. In 2018, we also received our 17th Diamond Award of Excellence from the Federal Aviation Administration, recognizing both Alaska and Horizon aircraft technicians for their commitment to training.

•Fares and ancillary services

Ticket and other fee pricing is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the increased availability of fare information on the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. Pricing is driven by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, market-specific capacity, market share per route/geographic area, cost structure, fare vs. ancillary revenue strategies, and demand. 

For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors. In addition, traditional network carriers have been able to reduce their operating costs through bankruptcies and mergers, while low-cost carriers have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat one mile), which in turn may enable them to lower their fares. These factors can reduce our pricing power and that of the airline industry as a whole.

Domestic airline capacity is dominated by four large carriers, representing over 80% of total seats. One of our advantages is our low fare with high value position in the industry. However, given the large concentration of industry capacity, some carriers in our markets may discount their fares substantially to develop or increase market share. Fares that are substantially below our cost to operate can be harmful if sustained over a long period of time. We will defend our core markets and, if necessary, redeploy capacity to better match supply with demand. We believe our strong financial position and low cost advantage enables us to offer competitive fares while still earning returns for our shareholders.

•Customer service and reputation

We compete with other airlines in areas of customer service such as on-time performance and guest amenities - including first class and other premium seating, quality of on-board products, aircraft type and comfort. In 2019, Alaska ranked highest in customer satisfaction among traditional network carriers by J.D. Power and Associates for the 12th year in a row, and was also named as the best U.S. airline by Condé Nast Traveler. Additionally, in 2019 we opened our new flagship lounge in the North Satellite of Sea-Tac Airport and began work on our new lounge at San Francisco International Airport. 

We are also in the process of reconfiguring our Airbus aircraft, which began in 2018. The new livery and interior reconfiguration will provide guests with one consistent brand experience across the Mainline fleet. Airbus livery updates 

11

were completed in 2019, while the interior reconfiguration is expected to wrap up in early 2021. We began installation of next-generation Gogo inflight satellite based Wi-Fi on our entire Boeing and Airbus fleets in 2018, which is planned to be complete in 2020.

Our employees are a key element of our product. We have a highly engaged workforce that strives to provide genuine and caring service to our guests, both at the airport and onboard. We heavily emphasize our service standards with our employees through training and education programs and monetary incentives related to operational performance and guest satisfaction.

•Routes served, flight schedules, codesharing and interline relationships, and frequent flyer programs

We also compete with other airlines based on markets served, the frequency of service to those markets and frequent flyer opportunities. Some airlines have more extensive route structures than we do, and they offer significantly more international routes. In order to expand opportunities for our guests, we enter into codesharing and interline relationships with other airlines that provide reciprocal frequent flyer mileage credit and redemption privileges. These relationships allow us to offer our guests access to more destinations than we can on our own, gain exposure in markets we do not serve and allow our guests more opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles. Our Mileage Plan™ offers some of the most comprehensive benefits to our members with the ability to earn and redeem miles on 18 partner carriers. For the fifth year in a row, Mileage Plan™ was ranked first in U.S. News and World Report's list of Best Travel Rewards Programs. 

In addition to domestic or foreign airlines that we compete with on most of our routes, we compete with ground transportation in our short-haul markets. To some extent, our airlines also compete with technology, such as video conferencing and internet-based meeting tools that have changed the need for, or frequency of, face-to-face business meetings.

TICKET DISTRIBUTION

Our tickets are distributed through three primary channels:

•Direct to customer: It is less expensive for us to sell through our direct channel at alaskaair.com. We believe direct sales through this channel are preferable from a branding and customer relationship standpoint in that we can establish ongoing communication with the guest and tailor offers accordingly. As a result, we continue to take steps to drive more business to our website. 

•Traditional and online travel agencies: Both traditional and online travel agencies typically use Global Distribution Systems (GDS) to obtain their fare and inventory data from airlines. Bookings made through these agencies result in a fee that is charged to the airline. Many of our large corporate customers require us to use these agencies. Some of our competitors do not use this distribution channel and, as a result, have lower ticket distribution costs.

•Reservation call centers: Our call centers are located in Phoenix, AZ, Kent, WA, and Boise, ID. We generally charge a $15 fee for booking reservations through the call centers. 

Our sales by channel are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes results for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016. 

12

SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS

Our results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year because our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our profitability is generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters due principally to fewer departures and passengers. Profitability typically increases in the second quarter and then reaches its highest level during the third quarter as a result of vacation travel. However, we have significantly moderated the impact of seasonality of our operations through continued growth from the West Coast to leisure destinations, like Hawaii and Costa Rica, and expansion to leisure and business destinations in the mid-continental and eastern U.S.

In addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to vary include: 

•pricing initiatives by us or our competitors,

• changes in fuel costs, 

•increases in competition at our primary airports,

•general economic conditions and resulting changes in passenger demand, 

•increases or decreases in passenger and volume-driven variable costs, and

•air space and Air Traffic Control delays, particularly in Seattle and San Francisco.

Many of the markets we serve experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs associated with deicing aircraft, canceling flights and accommodating displaced passengers. Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more susceptible to adverse weather conditions, particularly in the state of Alaska and the Pacific Northwest, than some of our competitors who may be better able to spread the impact of weather-related risks over larger route systems. 

No material part of our business, or that of our subsidiaries, is dependent upon a single customer, or upon a few high-volume customers.

EMPLOYEES

Our business is labor intensive. As of December 31, 2019, we employed 24,134 (17,919 at Alaska, 4,301 at Horizon, and 1,914 at McGee Air Services) active full-time and part-time employees. Wages and benefits, including variable incentive pay, represented approximately 43% of our total non-fuel operating expenses in 2019 and 41% in 2018. 

Most major airlines, including Alaska and Horizon, have employee groups that are covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). Airlines with unionized work forces generally have higher labor costs than carriers without unionized work forces, and they may not have the ability to adjust labor costs downward quickly enough to respond to new competition or slowing demand. 

As part of the integration, we have been working to bring represented work groups under single CBAs. In 2019, our aircraft maintenance technicians, represented by the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA), ratified a two-year contract extension, bringing Airbus and Boeing technicians under a single CBA. Now all five of our unionized groups at Alaska are under joint collective agreements with integrated seniority lists in place. 

At December 31, 2019, labor unions represented 86% of Alaska’s, 43% of Horizon’s, and 87% of McGee Air Services' employees. 

Our relations with U.S. labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements do not expire, but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed by the RLA and/or described in the agreement. After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board to initiate a process including mediation, arbitration, and a potential “cooling off” period that must be followed before either party may engage in self-help.

13

Alaska’s union contracts at December 31, 2019 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Negotiations with ALPA for an updated collective bargaining agreement are ongoing as of the date of this filing.

(b)As a result of amendments to Mexican labor laws, the Company has up to four years to make changes to the existing labor agreements. During that time, the existing contracts remain in place.

Horizon’s union contracts at December 31, 2019 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Negotiations with AFA for an updated collective bargaining agreement are ongoing as of the date of this filing.

McGee Air Services union contract at December 31, 2019 was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

14

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and its primary subsidiaries, Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Horizon Air Industries, who have significant decision-making responsibilities, their positions and their respective ages are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mr. Tilden joined Alaska Airlines in 1991, became Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in 1994 and was named Vice President/Finance at Alaska Airlines in January 1999 and at Alaska Air Group in February 2000. He was elected Alaska Airlines Chief Financial Officer in February 2000, Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of both companies in January 2002 and Executive Vice President/Finance and Planning of Alaska Airlines in April 2007. Mr. Tilden was named President of Alaska Airlines in December 2008 and, in May 2012, he was elected President and CEO of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines and CEO of Horizon Air. He leads Air Group’s Management Executive Committee and was elected to the Air Group Board in 2010 and became Chairman of the Board in January 2014.

Mr. Pedersen joined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as Staff Vice President/Finance and Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines and was elected Vice President/Finance and Controller for both entities in 2006. He was elected Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in June 2010 and Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of both entities in 2014. Effective February 2019, he was elected Treasurer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines. He was Chief Financial Officer of Virgin America Inc. from December 2016 to July 2018, when Virgin America was merged into Alaska. He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee. Mr. Pedersen will retire effective March 2, 2020 and Mr. Tackett will assume the role of Chief Financial Officer. 

Mr. Levine was elected Senior Vice President Legal and General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in January 2020 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Levine was previously Vice President Legal and General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines (January 2016 - January 2020). He was elected Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in August 2017. Mr. Levine joined Alaska Airlines in February 2006 as a Senior Attorney. He also served as Associate General Counsel and Managing Director Commercial Law and General Litigation from 

15

July 2009 to February 2011 and, subsequently, as Deputy General Counsel and Managing Director of Legal at Alaska Airlines from February 2011 to January 2016. He was appointed Assistant Corporate Secretary of Horizon Air in August 2017 and was Assistant Corporate Secretary of Virgin America from November 2017 to July 2018, when Virgin America was merged into Alaska. 

Mr. Minicucci was elected President of Alaska Airlines in May 2016. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President/Operations of Alaska Airlines from December 2008 to May 2016, and was Alaska’s Chief Operating Officer from December 2008 until November 2019. He was Chief Executive Officer of Virgin America Inc. from December 2016 to July 2018, when Virgin America was merged into Alaska. He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.

Mr. Sprague was elected President of Horizon Air effective November 6, 2019 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Sprague previously served as Senior Vice President External Relations of Alaska Airlines from May 2014 until his resignation in September 2017. Mr. Sprague also served Alaska Airlines as Vice President of Marketing from March 2010 to April 2014 and Vice President of Alaska Air Cargo from April 2008 to March 2010.

Mr. Harrison joined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as the Managing Director of Internal Audit and was elected Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management in 2008. He was elected Senior Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management in 2014. He was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer in February 2015 and named Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer in August 2015. He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.

Mr. Beck was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines effective November 6, 2019 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Prior to that he served as President and CEO of Horizon Air from January 2018 – November 2019. Mr. Beck previously served as Vice President, Flight Operations at Alaska Airlines, Inc. until retiring in June 2015. Following that date, he provided consulting services to Alaska Airlines, Inc. in connection with the integration to a single operating certificate with Virgin America Inc.

Mr. Tackett was elected Executive Vice President of Planning and Strategy in September 2018 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Tackett previously served as Senior Vice President of Revenue and E-commerce from August 2017 to September 2018 and has served a number of capacities since joining Alaska Airlines in 2000, including Managing Director Financial Planning and Analysis, (2008-2010), Vice President Labor Relations (2010-2015) and Vice President Revenue Management in 2016. Mr. Tackett will assume the role of Chief Financial Officer concurrent with Mr. Pedersen's retirement in March 2020. 

Ms. Schneider was elected Senior Vice President of People at Alaska Airlines in June 2019 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Ms. Schneider was previously Vice President of People at Alaska (August 2017-May 2019) Vice President of Inflight Services at Alaska (2011-2017), later also taking responsibility for Call Centers at Alaska (February 2017). She began her career at Alaska as Manager of Financial Accounting in 1989. Since that time, she has held a number of positions.

Ms. Birkett-Rakow was elected Vice President of External Relations at Alaska Airlines in September 2017 and became a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee at that time. 

REGULATION

GENERAL

The airline industry is highly regulated, most notably by the federal government. The Department of Transportation (DOT), the the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the FAA exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.

•DOT: A domestic airline is required to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT in order to provide passenger and cargo air transportation in the U.S. Subject to certain individual airport capacity, noise and other restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier to operate between any two points in the U.S. Certificates do not expire, but may be revoked for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders or the terms of the certificates. While airlines are permitted to establish their own fares without government regulation, the DOT has jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, marketing alliance agreements between major domestic carriers, international and some domestic route authorities, Essential Air Service market subsidies, carrier liability for personal or property damage, and certain airport rates and charges disputes. International treaties may also contain restrictions or requirements for flying outside of the U.S. and impose different carrier liability limits than those applicable to domestic flights. The DOT has been active in implementing a variety of “consumer protection” regulations, covering subjects such 

16

as advertising, passenger communications, denied boarding compensation and tarmac delay response. Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the DOT for alleged violations of consumer protection and other economic regulations. We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 

•FAA: The FAA, through Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs), generally regulates all aspects of airline operations, including establishing personnel, maintenance and flight operation standards. Domestic airlines are required to hold a valid air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA. Pursuant to these regulations, we have established, and the FAA has approved, our operations specifications and a maintenance program for each type of aircraft we operate. Each maintenance program provides for the ongoing maintenance of the relevant aircraft type, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls. Periodically, the FAA issues airworthiness directives (ADs) that must be incorporated into our aircraft maintenance program and operations. All airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the FAA from time to time for alleged violations of FARs or ADs. At this time, we are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 

•TSA: Airlines serving the U.S. must operate a TSA-approved Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program (AOSSP), and comply with TSA Security Directives (SDs) and regulations. Under TSA authority, we are required to collect a September 11 Security Fee of $5.60 per one-way trip from passengers and remit that sum to the government to fund aviation security measures. Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the TSA for alleged violations of the AOSSP, SDs or security regulations. We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 

The Department of Justice and DOT have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the RLA. To the extent we continue to fly to foreign countries and pursue alliances with international carriers, we may be subject to certain regulations of foreign agencies and international treaties.

We are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The OSHA and other federal agencies have been authorized to create and enforce regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under these federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted employee safety and health laws and regulations. We maintain our safety and health programs in order to meet or exceed these requirements.

ENVIRONMENTAL

We are also subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters, both domestically and internationally. Domestic regulations that have an impact to our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Many state and local environmental regulations exceed these federal regulations. In the future there may be incremental legislation aimed at reduction of carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions and environmental restoration. 

The Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have established aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. We believe we have sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions.

The impacts of carbon emissions generated by the airline industry and the impact of those emissions on climate change have faced increased scrutiny. We committed to carbon neutral international growth starting in 2020 through our commitment to Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation, a global, market-based emissions offset program issued by the International Civil Aviation Organization. This does not have a direct impact on domestic flights, however EPA is expected to finalize a rule in 2020 on aircraft emission standards which will align with the international agreements. 

Over the course of several years, we have transitioned to more fuel-efficient aircraft fleets, added fuel-efficient winglets, and flown efficient flight paths, keeping with our industry commitments towards emission reduction. In 2016, Alaska Airlines flew the first commercial flight in the U.S. using a sustainable alternative jet fuel of a 20% blend made from forest residuals. The fuel from that flight was produced by the Northwest Advanced Renewables Alliance (NARA), led by Washington State University. Alaska Airlines has joined with others at Seattle Tacoma International Airport and San Francisco International 

17

Airport to strengthen the pathway to commercially viable sustainable aviation fuel, and through a partnership with Neste continues to assess the increased use of biofuels as an alternative fuel to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. In addition, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air continue to utilize electric equipment at airports when we have the infrastructure to support it. 

Overall, the total Alaska mainline Greenhouse Gas emissions and intensity trend has decreased since 2009 and future goals have been set to continue reducing emissions intensity. More broadly, we know that being responsible for our impact is a critical part of delivering value for all those who depend on us – employees, communities, guests, and owners – over the long term. To that end, we focused on addressing the breadth of our most significant environmental impact across emissions and waste, as well as important social impacts. Alaska Airlines leads the industry in inflight recycling and has reduced waste to landfill by over 15,000 tons over the past decade. In 2018 we were the first US airlines to remove plastic straws and stir sticks from our aircraft and in 2019, we launched a campaign called #FillBeforeYouFly to engage our employees and guests in reducing plastic waste. For more details on Alaska’s emission reductions programs as well as status on other key environmental initiatives, see Alaska’s annual Sustainability Reports and environmental performance metrics on our website,

www.flysustainably.com/reports. The information contained on our sustainability website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Although we do not currently anticipate that specific environmental regulation will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, new regulations or compliance issues that we do not currently anticipate could have the potential to harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.

INSURANCE

We carry insurance of types customary in the airline industry and in amounts deemed adequate to protect our interests and property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain credit and lease agreements. The insurance policies principally provide coverage for Airline Hull, Spares and Comprehensive Legal Liability, War and Allied Perils, and Workers’ Compensation. In addition, we currently carry a Cyber Insurance policy in the event of security breaches from malicious parties. 

We believe that our emphasis on safety and our state-of-the-art flight deck safety technology help to control the cost of our insurance.

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION

Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website at www.alaskaair.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Aircraft Utilization - block hours per day; this represents the average number of hours per day our aircraft are in transit

Aircraft Stage Length - represents the average miles flown per aircraft departure

ASMs - available seat miles, or “capacity”; represents total seats available across the fleet multiplied by the number of miles flown

CASM - operating costs per ASM, or "unit cost"; represents all operating expenses including fuel and special items

CASMex - operating costs excluding fuel and special items per ASM; this metric is used to help track progress toward reduction of non-fuel operating costs since fuel is largely out of our control

Debt-to-capitalization ratio - represents adjusted debt (long-term debt plus capitalized operating lease liabilities) divided by total equity plus adjusted debt

Diluted Earnings per Share - represents earnings per share (EPS) using fully diluted shares outstanding

Diluted Shares - represents the total number of shares that would be outstanding if all possible sources of conversion, such as stock options, were exercised

18

Economic Fuel - best estimate of the cash cost of fuel, net of the impact of our fuel-hedging program

Free Cash Flow - total operating cash flow generated less cash paid for capital expenditures

Free Cash Flow Conversion - free cash flow as a percentage of adjusted net income

Load Factor - RPMs as a percentage of ASMs; represents the number of available seats that were filled with paying passengers

Mainline - represents flying Boeing 737, Airbus 320 family and Airbus 321neo jets and all associated revenues and costs

Net adjusted debt - long-term debt, including current portion, plus capitalized operating leases, less cash and marketable securities

Net adjusted debt to EBITDAR - represents net adjusted debt divided by EBITDAR (trailing twelve months earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, special items and rent)

Productivity - number of revenue passengers per full-time equivalent employee

RASM - operating revenue per ASMs, or "unit revenue"; operating revenue includes all passenger revenue, freight & mail, Mileage Plan™ and other ancillary revenue; represents the average total revenue for flying one seat one mile

Regional - represents capacity purchased by Alaska from Horizon, SkyWest and PenAir. In this segment, Regional records actual on-board passenger revenue, less costs such as fuel, distribution costs, and payments made to Horizon, SkyWest and PenAir under the respective capacity purchased arrangement (CPA). Additionally, Regional includes an allocation of corporate overhead such as IT, finance, and other administrative costs incurred by Alaska and on behalf of Horizon

RPMs - revenue passenger miles, or "traffic"; represents the number of seats that were filled with paying passengers; one passenger traveling one mile is one RPM

Yield - passenger revenue per RPM; represents the average revenue for flying one passenger one mile

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS