ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand our company, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to – and should be read in conjunction with – our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. All statements in the following discussion that are not statements of historical information or descriptions of current accounting policy are forward-looking statements. Please consider our forward-looking statements in light of the risks referred to in this report’s introductory cautionary note and the risks mentioned in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” This overview summarizes the MD&A, which includes the following sections:

•Year in Review—highlights from 2019 outlining some of the major events that happened during the year and how they affected our financial performance.

•Results of Operations—an in-depth analysis of our revenues by segment and our expenses from a consolidated perspective for the three years presented in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent material to the understanding of segment profitability, we more fully describe the segment expenses per financial statement line item. Financial and statistical data is also included here. We have recast our financial information to reflect the impact of those standards. This section also includes forward-looking statements regarding our view of 2020. 

•Liquidity and Capital Resources—an overview of our financial position, analysis of cash flows, sources and uses of cash, contractual obligations and commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements.

•Critical Accounting Estimates—a discussion of our accounting estimates that involve significant judgment and uncertainties.

This section of the Form 10-K covers discussion of 2019 and 2018 results, and comparisons between those years. Discussion of 2017 results and comparisons between 2018 and 2017 have been removed from this Form 10-K, and can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 

YEAR IN REVIEW

In 2019, we posted our 16th consecutive annual profit on an adjusted basis and an adjusted pretax margin of 12%, which ranks among the top quartile of the industry. Our pretax income was $1.0 billion, compared to $585 million in 2018. Our 2019 pretax income on an adjusted basis (a non-GAAP financial measure) was $1.1 billion, an increase of 43% from the same measure in 2018. Adjusted pretax income for 2019 excludes $44 million of merger-related costs associated with our acquisition of Virgin America and $6 million of mark-to-market fuel hedge adjustments.

The increase in adjusted pretax income was driven largely by an increase in operating revenues of $517 million, and a decrease in fuel expense of $58 million due to lower fuel prices as compared to the prior year. These improvements were partially offset by an increase in operating expenses, excluding fuel and special items, of $243 million.

Revenue growth of $517 million was largely driven by initiatives we launched in late 2018 and early 2019, most notably our new Saver Fare product, and continued network expansion resulting in capacity growth of about 2%. 

The $243 million increase in operating expenses, excluding fuel and special items, was largely due to growth in wages and benefits cost from new collective bargaining agreements and growth in our overall business, requiring an increase in frontline staffing. One of these agreements was a joint collective bargaining agreement with our aircraft mechanics, marking the last of the work groups to integrate from the Virgin America merger. This was a significant achievement and marks 2019 as the year in which we completed substantially all of the integration milestones. 

See “Results of Operations” below for further discussion of changes in revenues and operating expenses and our reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure.

31

2019 Accomplishments and Highlights

Recognition and Awards

•Ranked "Highest in Customer Satisfaction Among Traditional Carriers" in 2019 by J.D. Power for the 12th year in a row.

•Named "Best U.S. Airline" by Condé Nast Traveler in their 2019 Readers Choice Awards for the second consecutive year.

•Mileage Plan™ ranked first in U.S. News & World Report's list of Best Travel Rewards Programs for the fifth time.

•Ranked as top U.S. airline in Newsweek's 2020 Best Customer Service awards. 

•Named "Best Mid-Size Airline" by TripAdvisor in their 2019 Travelers Choice awards. 

•Earned top spot for customer satisfaction on the American Customer Satisfaction Index Travel Report for 2018-2019. 

•Named "Best Airline" by Kayak in their 2019 Travel Hacker Awards.

•Ranked the best U.S. airline in Money Magazine for the second year in a row. 

•Ranked as the top U.S. airline in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the third consecutive year.

Our People and Communities 

•Ranked among Forbes' 2019 global list for "World's Best Employers" for the fifth year in a row. 

•Completed Flight Path, our leader-led program aimed at informing and engaging our employees, bringing over 95% of Air Group employees together to discuss our culture and future.

•Awarded $163 million in incentive pay for 2019. 

•Launched LIFT, Alaska's newly renamed social and environmental impact program, complete with a week of employee volunteer events in eight cities across our network.

•Donated over $15 million and contributed more than 41,000 volunteer hours to support nonprofits in our local communities, focusing on youth and education, medical (research/transportation) and community outreach.

Shareholder Return

In 2019, we paid cash dividends of $173 million and repurchased 1,192,820 shares of our common stock for $75 million under the $1 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in August 2015. As of December 31, 2019, the Company has repurchased approximately 7.1 million shares for $513 million under this program. 

Since 2007, we have repurchased 62 million shares of common stock for $1.7 billion for an average price of approximately $27.89 per share. In 2019, we increased our quarterly dividend 9% from $0.32 per share to $0.35 per share, and, subsequent to December 31, 2019, we announced a 7% increase to $0.375 per share for 2020. Overall, we returned $248 million to shareholders during 2019. We currently expect to increase capital returns to shareholders in 2020 to approximately $430 million, of which approximately $250 million will be from share repurchases.

Labor Update

In July 2019, our aircraft technicians, represented by AMFA, ratified an agreement to integrate Airbus technicians into the collective bargaining agreement with Boeing technicians, as well as extend the contract term by two years. The ratification of the agreement brings all of our labor groups under single collective bargaining agreements, an important milestone less than three years after the merger with Virgin America. In September 2019, Alaska's clerical, office, passenger service, ramp service and stores agents, represented by the IAM, ratified new five-year contracts. Both the IAM and AMFA agreements included signing bonuses and wage rate increases, which were implemented in the third quarter. 

32

Outlook

With the acquisition of Virgin America largely behind us, in 2020 we will shift our focus to executing on our new five-year strategy. Integral to this long-term plan will be achieving 13% to 15% pretax margins and 4% to 6% annual capacity growth over the business cycle. Our revenue initiatives, including our Saver Fare product, provided meaningful revenue improvements in 2019, and are expected to continue to provide incremental revenue in 2020. Benefits from the synergies of the merger also provided positive impacts to our 2019 pretax margin, with the full run-rate expected by 2021. Through cross-fleeting, we were able to optimize the use of our fleet by moving larger-gauge, lower unit cost aircraft into markets with high demand. 

In 2020, we anticipate the continuation of these initiatives and synergies will provide an incremental $125 million of revenue. We also expect additional revenue from initiatives we will be launching throughout 2020. In addition, we will continue our work on notable guest experience enhancement projects which are already underway. By the end of the year, we expect our entire mainline fleet will be equipped with high-speed satellite Wi-Fi, and that the majority of the interiors of our Airbus fleet will be retrofitted to align with the Boeing fleet, allowing for lower unit-costs and incremental premium revenue on Airbus aircraft. Work will also continue with the Port of Seattle to open a state-of-the-art 20-gate North Satellite Concourse at Sea-Tac Airport to be completed in 2021. These improvements, combined with our ongoing rotation of fresh, on-board menu offerings, refreshed aircraft interiors, and optimization of our network, will continue to provide our guests with more options at a significant value. 

We expect to grow our combined network capacity in 2020 by approximately 3% to 4%, compared to 2% growth in 2019. Current schedules indicate competitive capacity will increase by roughly one point in the first quarter of 2020. Our capacity guidance is highly dependent on the return to service of the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. Our current delivery schedule indicates that ten 737 MAX aircraft will be delivered in 2020, three of which were delayed from 2019, plus seven originally contracted for delivery in 2020. Should the grounding of the aircraft further delay those ten deliveries beyond our current expectations, our capacity growth could be negatively impacted.

Given another year of slower growth and increased cost pressure from higher wages, airport costs and maintenance costs, we expect unit costs to increase approximately 2% in 2020. This expectation excludes the impacts of any new labor agreements that might be reached during the year. In order to reach our long-term margin goals of 13% to 15%, we will mitigate cost pressures through a continued focus on higher productivity and lower overhead. We believe that our product, our operation, our engaged employees, our award-winning service, and our competitive Mileage Plan™, combined with our strong balance sheet and focus on low costs, give us the ability to compete successfully in the markets we serve and generate meaningful profit margins.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ADJUSTED (NON-GAAP) RESULTS AND PER-SHARE AMOUNTS

We believe disclosure of earnings excluding the impact of merger-related costs, mark-to-market gains or losses or other individual special revenues or expenses is useful information to investors because:

•By excluding fuel expense and certain special items (including merger-related and other costs) from our unit metrics, we believe that we have better visibility into the results of operations and our non-fuel cost initiatives. Our industry is highly competitive and is characterized by high fixed costs, so even a small reduction in non-fuel operating costs can lead to a significant improvement in operating results. In addition, we believe that all domestic carriers are similarly impacted by changes in jet fuel costs over the long run, so it is important for management (and investors) to understand the impact of (and trends in) company-specific cost drivers, such as labor rates and productivity, airport costs, maintenance costs, etc., which are more controllable by management.

•Cost per ASM (CASM) excluding fuel and certain special items, such as merger-related costs, is one of the most important measures used by management and by the Air Group Board of Directors in assessing quarterly and annual cost performance.

•Adjusted income before income tax and CASM excluding fuel (and other items as specified in our plan documents) are important metrics for the employee incentive plan, which covers the majority of Air Group employees.

33

•CASM excluding fuel and certain special items is a measure commonly used by industry analysts and we believe it is an important metric by which they compare our airlines to others in the industry. The measure is also the subject of frequent questions from investors.

•Disclosure of the individual impact of certain noted items provides investors the ability to measure and monitor performance both with and without these special items. We believe that disclosing the impact of certain items, such as merger-related costs and mark-to-market hedging adjustments, is important because it provides information on significant items that are not necessarily indicative of future performance. Industry analysts and investors consistently measure our performance without these items for better comparability between periods and among other airlines.

•Although we disclose our passenger unit revenues, we do not (nor are we able to) evaluate unit revenues excluding the impact that changes in fuel costs have had on ticket prices. Fuel expense represents a large percentage of our total operating expenses. Fluctuations in fuel prices often drive changes in unit revenues in the mid-to-long term. Although we believe it is useful to evaluate non-fuel unit costs for the reasons noted above, we would caution readers of these financial statements not to place undue reliance on unit costs excluding fuel as a measure or predictor of future profitability because of the significant impact of fuel costs on our business.

Although we are presenting these non-GAAP amounts for the reasons above, investors and other readers should not necessarily conclude that these amounts are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual in nature.

2019 COMPARED WITH 2018 

Our consolidated net income for 2019 was $769 million, or $6.19 per diluted share, compared to net income of $437 million, or $3.52 per diluted share, in 2018. 

Excluding the impact of merger-related costs and mark-to-market fuel hedge adjustments, our adjusted consolidated net income for 2019 was $798 million, or $6.42 per diluted share, compared to an adjusted consolidated net income of $554 million, or $4.46 per share, in 2018. The following table reconciles our adjusted net income and earnings per diluted share (EPS) during the full year 2019 and 2018 to amounts as reported in accordance with GAAP.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Special items - other relates to the employee tax reform bonus awarded in January 2018 and a $20 million contract termination fee incurred in December 2018. 

34

CASM is summarized below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Special items - other relates to the employee tax reform bonus awarded in January 2018 and a $20 million contract termination fee incurred in December 2018.

35

OPERATING STATISTICS SUMMARY (unaudited)

Alaska Air Group, Inc. 

Below are operating statistics we use to measure performance. Certain historical information has been adjusted to reflect the adoption of new accounting standards. We often refer to unit revenues and adjusted unit costs, which are non-GAAP measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Except for FTEs, data includes information related to third-party regional capacity purchase flying arrangements.

(b)See reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the most directly related GAAP measure in the accompanying pages.

(c)Data presented includes information related to flights operated by Horizon and third-party carriers.

(d)Information for 2017 has been adjusted to reflect the adoption of new accounting standards. 

36

OPERATING REVENUES

Total operating revenues increased $517 million, or 6%, during 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The changes are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Passenger Revenue

On a consolidated basis, passenger revenue for 2019 increased by $464 million, or 6%, on a 2% increase in capacity, and a 4.2% increase in unit revenues. The capacity increase was driven by the continued expansion of our network and fleet growth over the past year. Unit revenues increased largely due to our current year revenue initiatives, including our Saver Fare product, implemented as a part of a broader plan to drive revenue growth, and the realization of synergies from our acquisition of Virgin America. 

Mileage Plan other revenue

On a consolidated basis, Mileage Plan other revenue increased $31 million, or 7%, as compared to 2018, primarily due to increased miles purchased by our affinity card partner consistent with the overall growth in cardholders. 

Cargo and Other Revenue

On a consolidated basis, Cargo and other revenue increased $22 million, or 11%, from 2018. The increase is primarily attributable to increased freight and mail volumes from our three freighters as a result of the annualization of new contracts entered into late in 2018 and revenue from our subleased slots at LaGuardia and Reagan National airports. 

OPERATING EXPENSES

Total operating expenses increased $97 million, or 1%, compared to 2018. We consider it useful to summarize operating expenses as follows, which is consistent with the way expenses are reported internally and evaluated by management:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Significant operating expense variances from 2018 are more fully described below.

Aircraft Fuel

Aircraft fuel expense includes both raw fuel expense (as defined below) and the effect of mark-to-market adjustments to our fuel hedge portfolio included in our consolidated statement of operations as the value of that portfolio increases and decreases. Aircraft fuel expense can be volatile, even between quarters, because it includes these gains or losses in the value of the underlying instrument as crude oil prices and refining margins increase or decrease. 

Raw fuel expense is defined as the price that we generally pay at the airport, or the “into-plane” price, including taxes and fees. Raw fuel prices are impacted by world oil prices and refining costs, which can vary by region in the U.S. Raw fuel expense approximates cash paid to suppliers and does not reflect the effect of our fuel hedges.

37

Aircraft fuel expense decreased $58 million, or 3%, compared to 2018. The elements of the change are illustrated in the following table: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Raw fuel expense per gallon decreased 6% due to lower West Coast jet fuel prices. West Coast jet fuel prices are impacted by both the price of crude oil, as well as the refining costs associated with the conversion of crude oil to jet fuel. The decrease in raw fuel price per gallon during 2019 was driven by a 12% decrease in crude oil prices, partially offset by a 9% increase in refining margins, as compared to the prior year. Fuel gallons consumed increased by 23 million, or 3%, consistent with the increase in capacity of 2%, and a 3% increase in block hours. 

We also evaluate economic fuel expense, which we define as raw fuel expense adjusted for the cash we receive from hedge counterparties for hedges that settle during the period, and for the premium expense that we paid for those contracts. A key difference between aircraft fuel expense and economic fuel expense is the timing of gain or loss recognition on our hedge portfolio. When we refer to economic fuel expense, we include gains and losses only when they are realized for those contracts that were settled during the period based on their original contract terms. We believe this is the best measure of the effect that fuel prices have on our business because it most closely approximates the net cash outflow associated with purchasing fuel for our operations. Accordingly, many industry analysts evaluate our results using this measure, and it is the basis for most internal management reporting and incentive pay plans.

Losses recognized for hedges that settled during the year were $16 million in 2019, compared to gains of $24 million in 2018. These amounts represent cash paid for premium expense, offset by any cash received from those hedges at settlement. 

As of the date of this filing, we expect our economic fuel price per gallon to increase approximately 4% in the first quarter of 2020, as compared to the first quarter of 2019 due to increasing crude oil prices, offset by a slight decrease in refining margins. As both oil prices and refining margins are volatile, we are unable to forecast the full-year cost with any certainty.

Wages and Benefits

Wages and benefits increased during 2019 by $180 million, or 8%, compared to 2018. The primary components of wages and benefits are shown in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Wages and payroll taxes increased by a combined $114 million on a 2.2% increase in FTEs. The increase in FTEs is attributable to the growth in our business. Additionally, the increase in wages is driven by the recognition of approximately $24 million in one-time costs following the ratification of the AMFA and IAM contracts in the third quarter, as well as the impact of increased wage rates for our labor groups as compared to the prior-year period. 

38

Medical and other benefits expense increased $66 million, or 27%, primarily due to FTE growth, rising medical costs, a greater occurrence of high-dollar value claims in 2019 as compared to the prior year, and increases in the obligation for our pilots long-term disability plan. 

We expect wages and benefits expense to be higher in 2020 compared to 2019 on an approximate 3% increase in FTEs. Our guidance does not include the impact of any future agreements we may reach with represented work groups in 2020, most notably our mainline pilots whose contract becomes amendable in April 2020.

Variable Incentive Pay

Variable incentive pay expense increased to $163 million in 2019 from $147 million in 2018 due to a higher wage base upon which the achievement percentage is applied, as well as a greater achievement of our stated goals, as compared to the prior year.

Aircraft Maintenance

Aircraft maintenance costs increased by $2 million compared to 2018. Although not a significant increase overall, core maintenance costs were higher resulting from a larger volume of airframe and engine maintenance checks as compared to the prior year, particularly on our Airbus fleet. This was partially offset by lower costs associated with our leased Airbus aircraft. 

We expect aircraft maintenance expense to increase 17% to 19% in 2020 due to increased volume of engine maintenance checks on our Airbus and B737-800 fleets, as well as increased costs associated with the return of certain leased Airbus aircraft. 

Aircraft Rent

Aircraft rent expense increased $16 million, or 5%, compared to 2018, primarily due to the the addition of two A321neos to our Mainline fleet and the annualization of rent on our leased E175s under the CPA agreement with SkyWest. 

We expect aircraft rent to be flat in 2020. 

Landing Fees and Other Rentals

Landing fees and other rental expenses increased $32 million, or 6%, compared to 2018, primarily driven by a 2% increase in capacity and rate increases at many of our hub airports. 

We expect landing fees and other rental expense to grow 9% to 12% in 2020 as we continue to add capacity to our network. We also expect rate increases at many airports we serve, specifically our hubs, as significant capital programs are underway and will be included in our lease rates.

Selling Expenses

Selling expenses decreased by $13 million, or 4%, compared to 2018 due to improvements in our credit card rates, as well as decreased spending on advertising as compared to the prior year. 

We expect selling expense to decrease slightly in 2020, due primarily to ongoing reductions in overall advertising and sponsorship spend, and an expected shift in distribution to lower-cost channels.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $25 million, or 6%, compared to 2018, primarily due to the addition of four owned B737-900ERs and four owned E175s to our fleet since December 31, 2018.

We expect depreciation and amortization expense to increase 4% to 6% in 2020, primarily due to the full year impact of depreciation on aircraft delivered in 2019 and the impact of 737 MAX aircraft scheduled for delivery in 2020.

39

Third-party Regional Carrier Expense

Third-party regional carrier expense, which represents payments made to SkyWest and PenAir under our CPA agreements, increased $12 million, or 8%, in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase is primarily due to a 3.3% increase in capacity flown by SkyWest as compared to the prior year and higher CPA rates. 

We expect third-party regional carrier expense to be flat in 2020 as there is no expected growth in the number of aircraft to be operated by SkyWest.

Special Items - Merger-Related Costs

We recorded $44 million of merger-related costs in 2019 associated with our ongoing integration of former Virgin America operations, compared to $87 million in 2018. Costs incurred in 2019 consisted primarily of expenses associated with Airbus flight attendant and pilot vacation balances, which were subject to a one-time true-up in accordance with the integrated labor agreements, as well as certain technology integration costs. We expect to incur merger-related costs in 2020, although at a lesser rate. 

Consolidated Non-operating Income (Expense)

During 2019 we recorded net non-operating expense of $47 million, compared to $58 million in 2018. The decrease is primarily due to lower interest expense as compared to 2018 as a result of an overall reduction in our debt balance and a reduction in average interest rates. 

ADDITIONAL SEGMENT INFORMATION

Refer to Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements for a detailed description of each segment. Below is a summary of each segment's profitability.

Mainline

Mainline adjusted pretax profit was $993 million in 2019 compared to $809 million in 2018. The $184 million increase in pretax profit was primarily driven by a $318 million increase in Mainline operating revenue and a $63 million decrease in Mainline fuel expense. These increases were partially offset by a $201 million increase in Mainline non-fuel operating expenses.

Mainline revenue increased primarily due to a 3% increase in yields and a slight increase in load factor as compared to the prior year. Lower raw fuel prices, offset by an increase in gallons consumed, drove the decrease in Mainline fuel expense. Non-fuel operating expense increased due to a $24 million signing bonus and higher wage rates from new contracts with our IAM and AMFA employees, as well as increased aircraft ownership and maintenance costs. 

Regional

Our Regional operations generated a pretax profit of $2 million in 2019 compared to a pretax loss of $100 million in 2018. The improvement was primarily attributable to a $197 million increase in operating revenues, partially offset by $73 million higher non-fuel operating expense and $33 million increase in fuel costs. Increased revenues and non-fuel operating expenses is primarily driven by the 13% increase in capacity. 

Horizon

Horizon achieved a pretax profit of $38 million in 2019 compared to $27 million in 2018. The change was primarily driven by a 22% increase in capacity growth attributable to four E175 aircraft added to Horizon's fleet over the past year and improved cost management through better productivity and improved operational performance. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our primary sources of liquidity are:

•Our existing cash and marketable securities balance of $1.5 billion, and our expected cash from operations;

40

•Our 133 unencumbered aircraft in the operating fleet as of December 31, 2019, that could be financed, if necessary; and

•Our combined bank line-of-credit facilities, with no outstanding borrowings, of $400 million. Information about these facilities can be found in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

In 2019, we took delivery of four owned B737-900ER and four owned E175 aircraft, and made net debt payments totaling $608 million, undertaken as part of our broader plan of reducing balance sheet leverage and lowering interest expense. As part of this overall reduction plan, as of December 31, 2019, we have paid off approximately 75% of the debt sourced to fund the Virgin America acquisition. We also continued to return capital to our shareholders by paying dividends totaling $173 million and repurchasing $75 million of our common stock. Because of our strong balance sheet and financial performance, we are one of only three airlines in the U.S. with investment grade credit ratings. 

We believe that our current cash and marketable securities balance, combined with future cash flows from operations and other sources of liquidity, will be sufficient to fund our operations and meet our debt payment obligations for the foreseeable future.

In our cash and marketable securities portfolio, we invest only in securities that meet our primary investment strategy of maintaining and securing investment principal. The portfolio is managed by reputable firms that adhere to our investment policy that sets forth investment objectives, approved and prohibited investments, and duration and credit quality guidelines. Our policy, and the portfolio managers, are continually reviewed to ensure that the investments are aligned with our strategy. 

The table below presents the major indicators of financial condition and liquidity: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Debt-to-capitalization, adjusted for operating leases

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Following the adoption of the new lease accounting standard on January 1, 2019, this represents the total capitalized Operating lease liability, whereas prior year periods were calculated utilizing the present value of aircraft lease payments. This change had no meaningful impact to the ratio.

41

Net adjusted debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, special items and rent

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following discussion summarizes the primary drivers of the increase in our cash and marketable securities balance and our expectation of future cash requirements.

ANALYSIS OF OUR CASH FLOWS

Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion in 2019 compared to $1.2 billion in 2018. The increase of $527 million is primarily due to a $332 million increase in our net income and an increase in advance ticket sales on an expected increase in first quarter capacity as compared to the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a $65 million voluntary pension contribution.

We typically generate positive cash flows from operations, and expect to use that cash flow to buy aircraft and capital equipment, to make debt payments, and to return capital to shareholders.

Cash Used in Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities was $791 million during 2019, compared to $631 million in 2018. Our capital expenditures were $696 million, or $264 million lower than in 2018, primarily driven by lower cash outlays for deliveries of and advance deposits on aircraft in 2019 as compared to the same period of 2018. Our net purchases of marketable securities were $136 million in 2019, compared to net sales of $282 million in 2018. The shift to net purchases is primarily driven by stronger operating cash flows as compared to 2018. Internally, we analyze and manage our cash and marketable securities balance in the aggregate.

Cash Used in Financing Activities

Cash used in financing activities was $813 million during 2019, compared to cash used in financing activities of $647 million in 2018. During the year, we made debt payments of $1.1 billion, repurchased $75 million of our common stock and paid cash dividends of $173 million. These payments were partially offset by the receipt of funds from new secured debt financing of $450 million in 2019. This compares to our activity in 2018, which consisted of net debt payments of $468 million, repurchases of $50 million of our common stock and cash dividend payments of $158 million. 

We plan to meet our future capital and operating commitments through our cash and investments on hand, internally generated cash from operations, along with additional debt financing if necessary.

42

Bank Lines of Credit

We have three credit facilities with availability totaling $516 million, including one $250 million credit facility, one $150 million credit facility, and one $116 million credit facility. We have secured letters of credit against the $116 million facility, but have no plans to borrow using either of the two remaining facilities. 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS

Aircraft Purchase and Lease Commitments

As of December 31, 2019, we have firm orders to purchase 35 aircraft. We also have cancelable purchase commitments for 30 Airbus A320neo aircraft with deliveries from 2023 through 2025. We could incur a loss of pre-delivery payments and credits as a cancellation fee. We also have options to acquire up to 37 additional 737 MAX aircraft with deliveries from 2021 through 2024 and 30 E175 aircraft with deliveries from 2021 to 2023. In addition to the 32 E175 aircraft currently operated by SkyWest in our regional fleet, we have options in future periods to add regional capacity by having SkyWest operate up to eight more E175 aircraft. 

We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $750 million in 2020, pending 737 MAX deliveries and any decision made for future aircraft orders. We have included in the table below the three undelivered aircraft from 2019 in our 2020 delivery schedule. The total of ten deliveries is subject to change based on the ongoing FAA grounding of the aircraft. 

The following table summarizes our contractual fleet count by year, as of February 12, 2020: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)The expected fleet counts at December 31, 2020 and 2021 reflect contractual lease returns, and is subject to change pending our long-term fleet decisions and strategies for future acquisition of aircraft. 

(b)Aircraft are either owned or leased by Horizon or operated under capacity purchase agreement with a third party.

(c)All three of our Boeing 737 MAX9 aircraft that were originally scheduled for delivery in 2019 have been shifted to 2020 in light of the MAX grounding.

For future firm orders and option exercises, we may finance the aircraft through cash from operations, long-term debt, or lease arrangements.

43

Future Fuel Hedge Positions

All of our future oil positions are call options, which are designed to effectively cap the cost of the crude oil component of our jet fuel purchases. With call options, we are hedged against volatile crude oil price increases; and, during a period of decline in crude oil prices, we only forfeit cash previously paid for hedge premiums. Our crude oil positions are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Contractual Obligations

The following table provides a summary of our obligations as of December 31, 2019. For agreements with variable terms, amounts included reflect our minimum obligations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)For variable-rate debt, future obligations are shown above using interest rates forecast as of December 31, 2019.

(b)Primarily comprised of non-aircraft lease costs associated with capacity purchase agreements. 

Defined Benefit Pensions

The table above excludes contributions to our various pension plans, for which there are no minimum required contributions given the funded status of the plans. The unfunded liability for our qualified defined-benefit pension plans was $363 million at December 31, 2019, compared to a $367 million unfunded position at December 31, 2018. This results in an 86% funded status on a projected benefit obligation basis compared to 84% funded as of December 31, 2018. We made a voluntary contribution of$65 million to the plans in 2019.

Credit Card Agreements

We have agreements with a number of credit card companies to process the sale of tickets and other services. Under these agreements, there are material adverse change clauses that, if triggered, could result in the credit card companies holding back a reserve from our credit card receivables. Under one such agreement, we could be required to maintain a reserve if our credit rating is downgraded to or below a rating specified by the agreement or our cash and marketable securities balance fell below $500 million. Under another such agreement, we could be required to maintain a reserve if our cash and marketable securities balance fell below $500 million. We are not currently required to maintain any reserve under these agreements, but if we were, our financial position and liquidity could be materially harmed.

44

Deferred Income Taxes

For federal income tax purposes, the majority of our assets are fully depreciated over a seven-year life using an accelerated depreciation method or bonus depreciation, if available. For financial reporting purposes, the majority of our assets are depreciated over 15 to 25 years to an estimated salvage value using the straight-line basis. This difference has created a significant deferred tax liability. At some point in the future the depreciation basis will reverse, potentially resulting in an increase in income taxes paid. 

While it is possible that we could have material cash obligations for this deferred liability at some point in the future, we cannot estimate the timing of long-term cash flows with reasonable accuracy. Taxable income and cash taxes payable in the short-term are impacted by many items, including the amount of book income generated (which can be volatile depending on revenue and fuel prices), usage of net operating losses, whether bonus depreciation provisions are available, any future tax reform efforts at the federal level, as well as other legislative changes that are beyond our control. 

In 2019, we made tax payments, net of refunds, totaling $31 million, and had an effective tax rate of 24.3%. We believe that we will have the liquidity available to make our future tax payments.

45

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of our financial position and results of operations in this MD&A are based upon our consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect our financial position and results of operations. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our significant accounting policies.

Critical accounting estimates are defined as those that reflect significant management judgment and uncertainties and that potentially may lead to materially different results under varying assumptions and conditions. Management has identified the following critical accounting estimates and has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these policies with our audit committee.

FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAMS

Alaska's Mileage Plan™ loyalty program awards mileage credits to members who fly on our airlines and our airline partners, referred to as flown miles. We also sell services, including miles for transportation, Companion Fare™ certificates, bag fee waivers, and access to our brand and customer lists to major banks that offer Alaska co-brand credit cards. To a lesser extent, miles for transportation are also sold to other non-airline partners, such as hotels, and car rental agencies. The outstanding miles may be redeemed for travel on our airlines or eligible airline partners, and for non-airline products such as hotels. As long as the Mileage Plan™ is in existence, we have an obligation to provide future travel.

Mileage credits and the various other services we sell under our loyalty program represent performance obligations that are part of a multiple deliverable revenue arrangement. Accounting guidance requires that we use a relative standalone selling price allocation to allocate consideration received to the material performance obligations in these contracts. Our relative standalone selling price allocation models are refreshed when contracts originate or are materially modified. We also update our model annually based on observed volumes. 

At December 31, 2019, we had approximately 262 billion miles outstanding, resulting in an aggregate deferred revenue balance of $2.0 billion. The deferred revenue resulting from our relative selling price allocations requires significant management judgment. There are uncertainties inherent in these estimates. Therefore, different assumptions could affect the amount and/or timing of revenue recognition or expenses. The most significant assumptions are described below.

1.The rate at which we defer sales proceeds related to services sold:

We estimate the standalone selling price for each performance obligation, including mileage credits, by considering multiple inputs and methods, including but not limited to, the estimated selling price of comparable travel, discounted cash flows, brand value, published selling prices, number of miles awarded, and the number of miles redeemed. We estimate the selling prices and volumes over the terms of the agreements in order to determine the allocation of proceeds to each of the multiple deliverables. 

2.The number of miles that will not be redeemed for travel (breakage):

We estimate how many miles will be used per award. For example, our members may redeem mileage credits for award travel to various locations or choose between a highly restricted award and an unrestricted award. Our estimates are based on the current requirements in our Mileage Plan program™ and historical award redemption patterns. 

We regularly review significant Mileage Plan™ assumptions and change our assumptions if facts and circumstances indicate that a change is necessary. Any such change in assumptions could have a significant effect on our financial position and results of operations.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK