Item 1.Business

We are a global asset management company with equity investments in high-quality boutique investment management firms, which we call our “Affiliates.” Our strategy is to generate long-term value by investing in leading independent active investment managers, through a proven partnership approach, and allocating resources across our unique opportunity set to the areas of highest growth and return. Through our innovative partnership approach, each Affiliate’s management team retains significant equity ownership in their firm while maintaining operational autonomy. In addition, we offer centralized capabilities to our Affiliates across a variety of areas, including strategy, marketing and distribution, and product development. As of December 31, 2019, our aggregate assets under management were approximately $726 billion, pro forma for a new Affiliate investment which has since been completed, across a broad range of active, return-oriented strategies.

AMG’s Affiliates are successful independent investment firms, typically founded by a group of entrepreneurial partners who have built a specialized, investment-centric culture over time, value their independence, and intend to build an enduring franchise which serves clients across generations of management principals. Given their long-term investment performance records, our Affiliates are recognized as being among the industry’s leaders in their respective investment disciplines. Independent firms seeking an institutional partner are attracted to AMG’s unique partnership approach and our global reputation and track record across nearly three decades as a successful and supportive partner to boutique firms around the world. 

We hold meaningful equity interests in each of our Affiliates, and typically each Affiliate’s management team retains a significant equity interest in their own firm. Affiliate management equity ownership (along with AMG’s long-term ownership) aligns our interests and preserves Affiliate management equity incentives, including the opportunity for Affiliate management to participate directly in the long-term future growth and profitability of their firms. Our innovative partnership approach maintains our Affiliates’ unique entrepreneurial cultures, investment independence, and operational autonomy in managing their businesses. 

In certain cases, we invest in our Affiliates by providing growth capital or complementing their own marketing resources with AMG’s proven global distribution capabilities. We also provide succession planning solutions and advice to our Affiliates, which can include a degree of liquidity and financial diversification along with incentive alignment for next-generation partners. We take a long-term partnership approach with our Affiliates, which provides stability in facilitating succession planning across generations of Affiliate management principals. AMG is uniquely able to provide strategic support and expertise across various stages of boutique firms’ growth. We believe clients recognize that through certain fundamental characteristics of focused boutique managers, especially equity ownership and investment independence, these firms are well-positioned to achieve client investment goals and objectives, especially through alpha generation. AMG’s 

1
investment approach preserves these essential elements of boutique firms, and in partnering with us, our Affiliates can continue to grow while retaining their independence. 

AMG generates long-term value by investing in new Affiliates, investing in existing Affiliates, and investing in centralized capabilities through which we can leverage AMG’s scale and resources to benefit our Affiliates and enhance their long-term growth prospects. In partnering with Affiliates, we are focused on investing in leading boutique investment management firms around the world managing active, return-oriented strategies, including traditional, alternative, and wealth management firms. Within our target universe, we seek strong and growing boutiques that offer illiquid and liquid alternative strategies, global equities strategies and multi-asset and fixed income strategies. 

We anticipate that the principal owners of boutique investment management firms will continue to seek access to an evolving range of growth and succession solutions. We will, therefore, continue to have a significant opportunity to invest in outstanding firms across the global asset management industry, including investment opportunities resulting from subsidiary divestitures, secondary sales and other special situations. In addition, we have the opportunity to make additional equity investments in our existing Affiliates, or invest in their growth by providing seed or other growth capital. We are well-positioned to execute upon these investment opportunities through our established process of identifying and cultivating high-quality investment prospects; our broad industry network and proprietary relationships developed with prospects over many years; our substantial experience and expertise in structuring and negotiating transactions; and our strong global reputation as an outstanding partner to our Affiliates, as well as for providing innovative solutions for the strategic needs of boutique investment management firms. 

Investment Management Operations

Through our Affiliates, we provide a comprehensive and diverse range of active, return-oriented strategies designed to assist institutional, retail and high net worth clients worldwide in achieving their investment objectives. We manage disciplined and focused investment strategies that address the specialized needs of institutional clients, including foundations and endowments, defined benefit and defined contribution plans for corporations and municipalities, and multi-employer plans. We provide boutique investment management expertise to retail investors through advisory and sub-advisory services to active, return-oriented mutual funds, Undertakings for the Collective Investment of Transferable Securities (“UCITS”), collective investment trusts and other retail products. We also provide investment management and customized investment counseling and fiduciary services to high net worth individuals, families, charitable foundations and individually managed accounts directly and through intermediaries, including brokerage firms or other sponsors.

As of December 31, 2019, we managed approximately $726 billion, pro forma for a new Affiliate investment which has since been completed, in equities, alternative and multi-asset strategies across investment styles, asset classes and geographies. The following chart provides information regarding our equities, alternative and multi-asset strategies as of December 31, 2019.

Assets Under Management

2
Through our Affiliates, we offer investors access to a broad and diverse array of independent boutique managers with distinct brands and specialized investment processes. Our Affiliates distribute their investment services and products to institutional investors through direct sales efforts and established relationships with consultants and intermediaries around the world through their own business development resources. In addition, our global distribution platform operates in major markets to extend the reach of our Affiliates’ own business development efforts, including strategy, marketing, distribution and product development. Our Affiliates benefit from the expertise of our senior sales and marketing professionals located in Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, the UK and the U.S.

Our Affiliates’ investment management services are also distributed globally to retail investors through our Affiliates’ own efforts and through our retail distribution platforms in the form of advisory and sub-advisory services to mutual funds and other retail oriented products. Our Affiliates’ investment management services are delivered to retail investors through various intermediaries, including independent investment advisers, retirement plan sponsors, broker-dealers, major fund marketplaces, sponsors of separately managed accounts (including unified managed accounts), and bank trust departments.

Our Affiliates currently manage assets for investors in more than 50 countries, including all major developed markets.

Our Structure and Relationship with Affiliates

We maintain long-term partnerships with the management equity owners of our Affiliates, and believe that Affiliate management equity ownership (along with our long-term ownership) aligns our and our Affiliates’ interests, enhances Affiliate management equity incentives, and preserves the opportunity for Affiliate management to participate directly in the long-term future growth and profitability of their firm. Our innovative partnership approach maintains our Affiliates’ unique entrepreneurial cultures, investment independence, and operational autonomy in managing their businesses. Although the equity structure of each Affiliate investment is tailored to meet the needs of the management equity owners of the particular Affiliate, we typically maintain a meaningful equity interest in the Affiliate, with a significant equity interest retained by Affiliate management.

Each of our Affiliates operates through distinct legal entities, which affords us the flexibility to design a separate operating agreement for each Affiliate that reflects our customized arrangements with respect to governance, economic participation, equity incentives and the other terms of our relationship. In each case, the operating agreement provides for a governance structure that gives Affiliate management the authority to manage and operate the business on a day-to-day basis. The operating agreement also reflects the specific terms of our economic participation in the Affiliate, which, in each case, uses a “structured partnership interest” to ensure alignment of our economic interests with those of Affiliate management.

For a majority of our Affiliates, we use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses. In this type of structured partnership interest, the Affiliate allocates a specified percentage of its revenue to us and Affiliate management, while using the remainder of its revenue for operating expenses and for distributions to Affiliate management. We and Affiliate management, therefore, participate in any increase or decrease in revenue, and only Affiliate management participates in any increase or decrease in expenses. Under these structured partnership interests our contractual share of revenue generally has priority over distributions to Affiliate management. 

For other Affiliates, we use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue less agreed-upon expenses. This type of partnership interest allows us to benefit from any increase in revenue or any decrease in the agreed-upon expenses, but also exposes us to any decrease in revenue or any increase in such expenses. The degree of our exposure to expenses from these structured partnership interests varies by Affiliate and includes Affiliates in which we fully share in the expenses of the business. 

When we own a controlling equity interest in an Affiliate, we consolidate the Affiliate’s financial results into our Consolidated Financial Statements. When we do not own a controlling equity interest in an Affiliate, but have significant influence, we account for our interest in the Affiliate under the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, we do not consolidate the Affiliate’s results into our Consolidated Financial Statements. Instead, our share of earnings or losses, net of amortization and impairments, is included in Equity method income (loss) (net) in our Consolidated Statements of Income, and our interest in these Affiliates is reported in Equity method investments in Affiliates (net) in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Whether we consolidate an Affiliate’s financial results or use the equity method of accounting, we maintain the same innovative partnership approach and provide support and assistance in substantially the same manner for all of our Affiliates. From time to time, we may restructure our interest in an Affiliate to better support the Affiliate’s growth strategy.

Competition

3
Our Affiliates compete with a large number of domestic and foreign investment management firms, as well as with subsidiaries of larger financial organizations. These firms may have significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources, captive distribution and assets under management. Many of these firms offer an even broader array of products and services in particular investment strategies such as passively-managed products, including exchange traded funds, that typically carry lower fee rates. Certain of our Affiliates offer their investment management services to the same client types and, from time to time, may compete with each other for clients. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry for new investment management firms, especially for those looking to provide investment management services to institutional and high net worth investors. We believe that the most important factors affecting our Affiliates’ ability to compete for clients are the:

•investment performance, investment styles, and reputations of our Affiliates and their management teams;

•diversity of our Affiliates’ investment strategies and products and the continued development, either organically or through new investments, of investment strategies to meet the changing needs and risk tolerances of investors;

•depth and continuity of our and our Affiliates’ client relationships and the level of client service offered;

•maintenance of strong business relationships by us and our Affiliates with major intermediaries; and

•continued success of our and our Affiliates’ distribution efforts.

The relative importance of each of these factors can vary depending on client type and the investment management service involved, as well as general market conditions. The ability to compete with other investment management firms also depends, in part, on the relative attractiveness of our Affiliates’ active, return-oriented strategies, market trends, fees or a combination of these factors. 

We compete with a number of acquirers of and investors in boutique investment management firms, including other investment management companies, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and larger financial organizations. We believe that the most important factors affecting our ability to compete for future investments are the:

•breadth and depth of our relationships with boutique investment management firms;

•target firms’ view of our innovative partnership approach, including our succession planning solutions and the preservation of their unique entrepreneurial cultures, investment independence, and operational autonomy in managing their businesses;

•purchase price, liquidity, equity incentive structures and access to economies of scale that we offer (financially, operationally or otherwise) as compared to acquisition or investment arrangements offered by others; and

•reputation and performance of our Affiliates, by which target firms may judge us and our future prospects.

Government Regulation

Our Affiliates offer their investment management services and products around the world, and are subject to complex and extensive regulation by regulatory and self-regulatory authorities and exchanges in various jurisdictions. Virtually all aspects of the asset management business, including the provision of advice, investment strategies and trading, fund sponsorship, and product-related sales and distribution activities, are subject to regulation. These regulations are primarily intended to protect the clients of investment advisers and generally grant regulatory authorities broad administrative and enforcement powers. 

The majority of our Affiliates are registered with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Advisers Act”). The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary duties, compliance and disclosure obligations, and operational and recordkeeping requirements. Our Affiliates operating outside of the U.S. may be subject to the Advisers Act and are also subject to regulation by various regulatory and self-regulatory authorities and exchanges in the relevant jurisdictions, including, for those Affiliates active in the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”). Many of our Affiliates also sponsor or advise registered and unregistered funds in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, and are subject to regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions where those funds are sponsored or offered, including, with respect to mutual funds in the U.S., the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). The Investment Company Act governs the operations of mutual funds and imposes obligations on their advisers, including investment restrictions and other governance, compliance, reporting and fiduciary 

4
obligations relating to the management of mutual funds. Many of our Affiliates are also subject to directives and regulations in the European Union and other jurisdictions relating to funds, such as the UCITS Directive and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (“AIFMD”), with respect to depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions, among other matters.

Our Affiliates’ sales and marketing activities are subject to regulation by authorities in the jurisdictions in which they offer investment management products and services. Our Affiliates’ ability to transact business in these jurisdictions, and to conduct related cross-border activities, is subject to the continuing availability of regulatory authorization. Through our global distribution platform, we also engage in sales and marketing activities that extend the reach of our Affiliates’ own business development efforts, and which are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions. Our U.S. retail distribution subsidiary is registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act. This subsidiary sponsors mutual funds registered under the Investment Company Act, and serves as an investment adviser and/or administrator for the AMG Funds complex. In the UK, our global distribution subsidiary is regulated by the FCA. We also have global distribution subsidiaries or branches of subsidiaries regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. 

Certain of our Affiliates and our U.S. retail distribution subsidiary are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), and related regulations, with respect to retirement plan clients. ERISA imposes duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, and prohibits certain transactions involving related parties to a retirement plan. The U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”) administers ERISA and regulates investment advisers who service retirement plan clients, and has been increasingly active in proposing and adopting additional regulations applicable to the asset management industry. Certain of our Affiliates and our U.S. retail distribution subsidiary are also members of the National Futures Association and are regulated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) with respect to the management of funds and other products that utilize futures, swaps or other CFTC-regulated instruments. 

In addition, certain of our Affiliates and our U.S. retail broker-dealer subsidiary are registered broker-dealers and members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), for the purpose of distributing funds or other products. FINRA has adopted extensive regulatory requirements relating to sales practices, registration of personnel, compliance and supervision, and compensation and disclosure. FINRA and the SEC have the authority to conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers, and may also conduct administrative proceedings. These broker-dealers are also subject to net capital rules in the U.S. that mandate the maintenance of certain levels of capital, and our Affiliates and our global distribution subsidiaries may also be subject to other regulatory capital requirements imposed by non-U.S. regulatory authorities.

Due to the extensive laws and regulations to which we and our Affiliates are subject, we and our Affiliates must devote substantial time, expense and effort to remain current on, and to address, legal and regulatory compliance matters. We have established compliance programs for each of our operating subsidiaries, and each of our Affiliates has established compliance programs to address regulatory compliance requirements for its operations. We and our Affiliates have experienced legal and compliance professionals in place to address these requirements, and have relationships with various legal and regulatory advisers in each of the countries where we and our Affiliates conduct business. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Employees and Corporate Organization

As of December 31, 2019, we and our consolidated and equity method Affiliates had approximately 4,000 employees, excluding the employees of certain Affiliates in which we are repositioning our interests and that are not significant to our results of operations. The substantial majority of employees were employed full-time by our Affiliates. Neither we nor our Affiliates are subject to any collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our and our Affiliates’ labor relations are good. We were formed in 1993 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware.

Our Website

Our website is www.amg.com. Our website provides information about us, and, from time to time, we may use it to distribute material company information. We routinely post financial, investment performance and other important information regarding the Company in the Investor Relations section of our website and we encourage investors to consult that section regularly. The Investor Relations section of our website also includes copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make these reports available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after our electronic filing of such materials with, or the 

5
furnishing of them to, the SEC. The information contained or incorporated on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

6
Item 1A.Risk Factors