Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following executive overview, which summarizes the significant trends affecting our results of operations and financial condition, as well as the remainder of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Affiliated Managers Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, should be read in conjunction with the “Forward-Looking Statements” section set forth in Part I and the “Risk Factors” section set forth in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any more recent filings with the SEC, and with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Executive Overview 

We are a global asset management company with equity investments in high-quality boutique investment management firms, which we call our “Affiliates.” Our strategy is to generate long-term value by investing in leading independent active investment managers, through a proven partnership approach, and allocating resources across our unique opportunity set to the areas of highest growth and return. Through our innovative partnership approach, each Affiliate’s management team retains significant equity ownership in their firm while maintaining operational autonomy. In addition, we offer centralized capabilities to our Affiliates across a variety of areas, including strategy, marketing and distribution, and product development. As of December 31, 2019, our aggregate assets under management were approximately $726 billion, pro forma for a new Affiliate investment which has since been completed, across a broad range of active, return-oriented strategies.

New and Pending Investments

On July 5, 2019, we completed our investment in Garda Capital Partners LP (“Garda”), an alternative investment manager specializing in fixed income relative value strategies. We account for our investment in Garda under the equity method of accounting. Following the close of this transaction, Affiliate management continues to hold a significant portion of the equity in their business and directs the day-to-day operations.

On February 18, 2020, we announced the completion of our investment in Comvest Partners (“Comvest”), a leading middle-market private equity and credit investment firm. We will account for our investment in Comvest under the equity method of accounting. The financial results of this investment will be included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements one quarter in arrears. Following the close of this transaction, Affiliate management continues to hold a significant portion of the equity in their business and directs the day-to-day-operations.

Operating Performance Measures

Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”), we are required to consolidate certain of our Affiliates and use the equity method of accounting for others. Whether we consolidate an Affiliate or use the equity method of accounting, we maintain the same innovative partnership approach and provide support and assistance in substantially the same manner for all of our Affiliates. Furthermore, all of our Affiliates are boutique investment managers and are impacted by similar marketplace factors and industry trends. Therefore, our key aggregate operating performance measures are important in providing management with a more comprehensive view of the operating performance and material trends across our entire business.

 The following table presents our key aggregate operating performance measures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Assets under management and, therefore average assets under management, include the assets under management of our consolidated and equity method Affiliates, and as of October 1, 2019, exclude the assets under management of certain Affiliates in which we are repositioning our interests and that are not significant to our results of operations. Assets under management is presented on a current basis without regard to the timing of the inclusion of an Affiliate’s financial results in our operating performance measures and Consolidated Financial Statements. Average assets under management reflects the timing of the inclusion of an Affiliate’s financial results in our operating performance measures and Consolidated Financial Statements. 

19
Average assets under management for mutual funds and similar retail investment products represents an average of the daily net assets under management, while for institutional and high net worth clients, average assets under management represents an average of the assets at the beginning or end of each month during the applicable period.

Aggregate fees consists of the total asset and performance based fees earned by all of our consolidated and equity method Affiliates, and includes the aggregate fees of certain Affiliates in which we are repositioning our interests and that are not significant to our aggregate fees or our results of operations. For certain of our Affiliates accounted for under the equity method, we report aggregate fees and the Affiliate’s financial results in our Consolidated Financial Statements one quarter in arrears. Aggregate fees is provided in addition to, but not as a substitute for, Consolidated revenue or other GAAP performance measures.

Assets Under Management

Through our Affiliates, we provide a comprehensive and diverse range of active, return-oriented strategies designed to assist institutional, retail and high net worth clients worldwide in achieving their investment objectives. We continue to see demand for active, return-oriented strategies, particularly in illiquid alternative and multi-asset and fixed income strategies, reflecting continued investor demand for returns that are less correlated to traditional equity markets, while we are experiencing outflows in global equities and in quantitative strategies across liquid alternatives. In addition, investor demand for passively-managed products, including exchange traded funds has continued, and we have experienced outflows in certain equity strategies, consistent with this industry-wide trend. We believe the best-performing active equity managers (whether global-, regional-, or country-specific) will continue to have significant opportunities to grow as a result of net client cash inflows. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from these trends. 

The following charts present information regarding the composition of our assets under management by active, return-oriented strategy as of December 31, 2018 and 2019: 

Assets Under Management by Strategy

__________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

20
The following table presents changes in our assets under management by active, return-oriented strategy: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________

(1) Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating into U.S. dollars the assets under management of our Affiliates whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.

(2) Strategic repositioning includes assets under management attributable to Affiliates that are not significant to our results of operations, or those in which we have divested of our interest.

(3) Other includes assets under management attributable to product transitions and reclassifications.

The following charts present information regarding the composition of our assets under management by client type as of December 31, 2018 and 2019: 

Assets Under Management by Client Type

21
The following table presents changes in our assets under management by client type: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________

(1) Foreign exchange reflects the impact of translating into U.S. dollars the assets under management of our Affiliates whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.

(2) Strategic repositioning includes assets under management attributable to Affiliates that are not significant to our results of operations, or those in which we have divested of our interest. 

(3) Other includes assets under management attributable to product transitions and reclassifications. 

Aggregate Fees

Aggregate fees consists of asset and performance based fees. Asset based fees include advisory and other fees earned by our Affiliates for services provided to their clients and are typically determined as a percentage of the value of a client’s assets under management. Performance based fees are based on investment performance, typically on an absolute basis or relative to a benchmark, and are recognized when they are earned (i.e., when they become billable to customers and are not subject to claw-back). Performance based fees are generally billed less frequently than asset based fees, and although performance based fees inherently depend on investment performance and will vary from period to period, we anticipate performance based fees will be a recurring component of our aggregate fees. 

Aggregate fees is generally determined by the level of our average assets under management, the composition of these assets across our active, return-oriented strategies that realize different asset based fee ratios, and performance based fees. Our asset based fee ratio is calculated as asset based fees divided by average assets under management. 

 Aggregate fees was $4,962.7 million in 2019, a decrease of $479.7 million or 9% as compared to 2018. The decrease in aggregate fees was primarily due to a $486.2 million decrease in asset based fees. The decrease in asset based fees was due to an 8% decrease in our average assets under management, primarily in alternative strategies and global equities strategies, and a 2% decline in our asset based fee ratio, principally due to a change in the composition of our assets under management.

Financial and Supplemental Financial Performance Measures

The following table presents our key financial and supplemental financial performance measures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________

(1) Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) and Economic net income (controlling interest) are non-GAAP performance measures and are discussed in “Supplemental Financial Performance Measures.”

22
Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) is an important supplemental financial performance measure for management as it provides a comprehensive view of our share of the financial performance of our business before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, impairments and adjustments to our contingent payment arrangements. Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) was $841.6 million in 2019, a decrease of $120.2 million or 12% as compared to 2018. The decrease in Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) was primarily due to a 9% decrease in aggregate fees and a decline in earnings at certain Affiliates in which we share in revenue less agreed-upon expenses.

Net income (controlling interest) was $15.7 million in 2019, a decrease of $227.9 million or 94%, as compared to 2018. The decrease in Net income (controlling interest) was primarily due to a $290.9 million increase in intangible amortization and impairments, including a $256.6 million increase in equity method intangible amortization and impairments and a $34.3 million increase in consolidated intangible amortization and impairments expense attributable to the controlling interest. The decrease was also the result of a $120.2 million decrease in Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest), primarily due to a decline in aggregate fees. These decreases were partially offset by a $178.5 million decrease in Income tax expense, primarily due to a decline in income before income taxes (controlling interest).

We believe Economic net income (controlling interest) is an important supplemental financial performance measure because it represents our performance before non-cash expenses relating to our acquisition of interests in Affiliates and improves comparability of performance between periods. Economic net income (controlling interest) was $720.2 million in 2019, a decrease of $60.5 million or 8% as compared to 2018. The decrease in Economic net income (controlling interest) was primarily due to a $120.2 million decrease in Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest), primarily from a decrease in aggregate fees, partially offset by a $60.9 million cash tax benefit recognized on the sale of an Affiliate.

Results of Operations

Our discussion and analysis of the key operating performance measures and financial results for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 is included herein. For discussion and analysis of fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017, please refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed with the SEC on February 22, 2019. 

The following discussion includes the key operating performance measures and financial results of our consolidated and equity method Affiliates. Our consolidated Affiliates’ financial results are included in our Consolidated revenue, Consolidated expenses, and Investment and other income, and our share of our equity method Affiliates’ financial results is reported, net of intangible amortization and impairments, in Equity method income (loss) (net). 

Consolidated Revenue

 Our Consolidated revenue is derived from our consolidated Affiliates, primarily from asset based fees from investment management services. For these Affiliates, we typically use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses. Consolidated revenue is generally determined by the level of our consolidated Affiliate average assets under management, the composition of these assets across our Affiliate sponsored investment products and client accounts that realize different asset based fee ratios, and performance based fees. 

The following table presents our consolidated Affiliate average assets under management and Consolidated revenue:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Consolidated revenue decreased $138.8 million or 6% in 2019, due to a $187.5 million decrease from asset based fees, partially offset by a $48.7 million increase from performance based fees. The decrease in asset based fees was primarily due to a 6% decrease in consolidated Affiliate average assets under management, primarily in U.S. equity strategies and global equity strategies, and a 2% decline in our consolidated Affiliate asset based fee ratio, principally due to a change in the composition of our assets under management. 

Consolidated Expenses 

23
Our Consolidated expenses are primarily attributable to the non-controlling interests of our consolidated Affiliates in which we share in revenue without regard to expenses. For these Affiliates, the amount of expenses attributable to the non-controlling interests, including compensation, is generally determined by the percentage of revenue allocated to expenses as part of the structured partnership interests in place at the respective Affiliate. Accordingly, increases in revenue generally will increase a consolidated Affiliate’s expenses attributable to the non-controlling interests and decreases in revenue will generally decrease a consolidated Affiliate’s expenses attributable to the non-controlling interests. 

The following table presents our Consolidated expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Compensation and related expenses decreased $44.2 million or 4% in 2019, primarily due to a $30.8 million decrease in bonus and salary expenses as a result of a decline in the percentage of revenue allocated to expenses as part of the structured partnership interests in place at our consolidated Affiliates, and a $15.9 million decrease in Affiliate equity compensation expense. The decrease was also due to a $6.3 million decline in pound sterling-denominated expenses due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These decreases were offset by a $5.5 million increase in compensation related to headcount repositioning in 2019. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $40.9 million or 10% in 2019, primarily due to a $28.9 million decrease from sub-advisory and distribution expenses related to a decrease in consolidated Affiliate average assets under management and a decrease of $5.3 million in travel-related, marketing, and notes receivable reserve expenses. The decrease was also due to a $4.8 million decline in pound sterling-denominated expenses due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Intangible amortization and impairments increased $29.7 million or 26% in 2019, primarily due to a $35.0 million expense to reduce the carrying value to fair value of an indefinite-lived acquired client relationship at one of our Affiliates, and a $16.1 million expense to reduce the carrying value to zero of certain indefinite-lived acquired client relationships due to the closure of certain retail investment products on our U.S. retail distribution platform. These increases were partially offset by a $19.4 million reduction in amortization expense related to a decrease in actual and expected client attrition for certain definite-lived acquired client relationships.

 Interest expense decreased $4.4 million or 5% in 2019, primarily due to a $10.1 million decrease due to our pound sterling-denominated forward foreign currency contracts and a $7.5 million decrease primarily due to lower borrowings on our senior unsecured multicurrency revolving credit facility (the “revolver”). These decreases were partially offset by a $13.4 million increase due to our junior subordinated notes issued in March 2019. 

There were no significant changes in Depreciation and other amortization in 2019. 

Other expenses (net) decreased $12.7 million or 18% in 2019, primarily due to a $19.5 million decrease in charitable contributions, partially offset by an $8.1 million expense to reduce certain right-of-use assets to their fair value, related to a reduction in leased office space. 

Equity Method Income (Loss) (Net) 

When we do not own a controlling equity interest in an Affiliate, but have significant influence, we account for our interest in the Affiliate under the equity method. Our share of earnings or losses from Affiliates accounted for under the equity method, net of amortization and impairments, is included in Equity method income (loss) (net) in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

24
For a majority of these Affiliates, we use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue less agreed-upon expenses. We also use structured partnership interests in which we contractually share in the Affiliate’s revenue without regard to expenses, and in this type of partnership interest, our contractual share of revenue generally has priority over distributions to Affiliate management. 

Our equity method revenue is derived primarily from asset and performance based fees from investment management services. Equity method revenue incorporates the total asset and performance based fees earned by all of our Affiliates accounted for under the equity method and is generally determined by the level of our equity method Affiliate average assets under management, the composition of these assets across our Affiliate sponsored investment products and client accounts that realize different asset based fee ratios, and performance based fees. Our Affiliates accounted for under the equity method manage a greater proportion of assets subject to performance based fees than our consolidated Affiliates and, as a result, equity method revenue will generally have more performance based fees than Consolidated revenue.

The following table presents equity method Affiliate average assets under management and equity method revenue, as well as equity method earnings and equity method intangible amortization and impairments, which in aggregate form Equity method income (loss) (net): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________

(1) Percentage change is not meaningful.

Our equity method revenue decreased $340.9 million or 11% in 2019, due to a $298.8 million decrease from asset based fees and a $42.1 million decrease from performance based fees. The decrease in asset based fees was primarily due to a 9% decrease in equity method Affiliate average assets under management, primarily in alternative strategies, and a 3% decline in our equity method asset based fee ratio, principally due to a change in the composition of our assets under management. 

While equity method revenue decreased $340.9 million or 11% in 2019, equity method earnings decreased $81.2 million or 22%. Equity method earnings decreased more than equity method revenue on a percentage basis due to decreases in revenue at certain Affiliates in which we share in the Affiliate’s revenue less agreed-upon expenses. The expense bases of these Affiliates are generally less variable and in 2019 include expenses related to headcount repositioning and a reduction in leased office space. 

Equity method intangible amortization and impairments increased $256.6 million or 69% in 2019, primarily due to a $485.0 million expense in 2019 to reduce the carrying value to fair value of certain Affiliates, as compared to a $273.3 million expense in 2018 to reduce the carrying value to fair value of certain Affiliates. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase was also due to a $45.7 million increase in amortization expense due to an increase in actual and expected client attrition for certain definite-lived acquired client relationships.

Investment and other income

The following table presents our Investment and other income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25
Investment and other income decreased $2.2 million or 8% in 2019, primarily due to a $12.8 million decrease from the valuation of Other investments, primarily attributable to general partner investments in private equity funds, partially offset by a $9.6 million net increase from the valuation and realized gains on sales of Investments in marketable securities. 

Income Tax Expense 

The following table presents our Income tax expense:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________

(1) Percentage change is not meaningful.

Income tax expense decreased $178.4 million or 98% in 2019, primarily due to a $406.4 million decrease in income before income taxes (controlling interest) in 2019, and a $240.0 million expense recorded to reduce the carrying value to fair value of an Affiliate for which we did not recognize an income tax benefit in 2018.

Net Income

The following table presents Net income, Net income (controlling interest) and Net income (non-controlling interest):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net income (controlling interest) decreased $227.9 million or 94% in 2019, primarily due to a $337.8 million increase in Equity method loss (net), a decrease in Consolidated revenue, and a $34.3 million increase in consolidated intangible amortization and impairments expense attributable to the controlling interest. These increases were partially offset by a $178.5 million decrease in Income tax expense attributable to the controlling interest.

Supplemental Financial Performance Measures

Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest)

As supplemental information, we provide a non-GAAP measure that we refer to as Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest). Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest) is an important supplemental financial performance measure for management as it provides a comprehensive view of our share of the financial performance of our business before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, impairments and adjustments to contingent payment arrangements. We believe that many investors use this measure when assessing the financial performance of companies in the investment management industry. This non-GAAP performance measure is provided in addition to, but not as a substitute for, Net income (controlling interest) or other GAAP performance measures. 

The following table presents a reconciliation of Net income (controlling interest) to Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest):

26
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________

(1) For the year ended December 31, 2017, Income taxes includes a one-time net benefit of $194.1 million from changes in U.S. tax laws. 

(2) Intangible amortization and impairments in our Consolidated Statements of Income includes amortization attributable to our non-controlling interests. For our Affiliates accounted for under the equity method, we do not separately report intangible amortization and impairments in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our share of these Affiliates’ amortization is reported in Equity method income (loss) (net). 

The following table presents the Intangible amortization and impairments shown above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2019, consolidated intangible amortization and impairments includes $51.1 million of non-cash expenses to reduce the carrying value to fair value of an indefinite-lived acquired client relationship at one of our Affiliates and to reduce the carrying value to zero of certain indefinite-lived acquired client relationships due to the closure of certain retail investment products on our U.S. retail distribution platform. 

For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019, equity method intangible amortization and impairments includes $93.1 million, $273.3 million and $485.0 million, respectively, of non-cash expenses to reduce the carrying value to fair value of certain Affiliates. 

(3)   Other items include depreciation and adjustments to contingent payment arrangements. 

Economic Net Income (controlling interest) and Economic Earnings Per Share

As supplemental information, we also provide non-GAAP performance measures that we refer to as Economic net income (controlling interest) and Economic earnings per share. We believe Economic net income (controlling interest) and Economic earnings per share are important measures because they represent our performance before non-cash expenses relating to the acquisition of interests in Affiliates and improve comparability of performance between periods. Economic net income (controlling interest) and Economic earnings per share are used by our management and Board of Directors as our principal performance benchmarks, including as one of the measures for aligning executive compensation with stockholder value. These non-GAAP performance measures are provided in addition to, but not as substitutes for, Net income (controlling interest) and Earnings per share (diluted) or other GAAP performance measures.

We adjust Net income (controlling interest) to calculate Economic net income (controlling interest) by adding back our share of pre-tax intangible amortization and impairments attributable to intangible assets because these expenses do not correspond to the changes in the value of these assets, which do not diminish predictably over time. We also add back the deferred taxes attributable to intangible assets because we believe it is unlikely these accruals will be used to settle material tax obligations. Further, we add back other economic items to improve comparability of performance between periods.

27
Economic earnings per share represents Economic net income (controlling interest) divided by the Average shares outstanding (adjusted diluted). In this calculation, the potential share issuance in connection with our junior convertible securities is measured using a “treasury stock” method. Under this method, only the net number of shares of common stock equal to the value of these junior convertible securities in excess of par, if any, is deemed to be outstanding. We believe the inclusion of net shares under a treasury stock method best reflects the benefit of the increase in available capital resources (which could be used to repurchase shares of common stock) that occurs when these securities are converted and we are relieved of our debt obligation. This method does not take into account any increase or decrease in our cost of capital in an assumed conversion.

The following table presents a reconciliation of Net income (controlling interest) to Economic net income (controlling interest) and Economic earnings per share:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________

(1) See note (2) to the table in “Adjusted EBITDA (controlling interest).”

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We generate long-term value by investing in new Affiliates, investing in existing Affiliates, and investing in centralized capabilities through which we can leverage our scale and resources to benefit our Affiliates and enhance their long-term growth prospects. We then return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and the payment of cash dividends on our common stock while maintaining a conservative capital structure consistent with an investment grade rating. 

Cash and cash equivalents were $539.6 million as of December 31, 2019 and were primarily attributable to the non-controlling interest. In 2019, we met our cash requirements primarily through cash generated by operating activities. Our principal uses of cash during the year were for investments in new Affiliates, investments in existing Affiliates primarily through repurchases of Affiliate equity interests, repayment of debt and the return of capital through share repurchases and the payment of cash dividends on our common stock. We expect these will be the primary uses of capital for the foreseeable future. 

We anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with borrowings under our revolver, will be sufficient to support our cash flow needs. In addition, we may draw funding from the debt and equity capital markets, and our credit ratings, among other factors, allow us to access these sources of funding on favorable terms. We are currently rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB+ by S&P Global Ratings. 

28
The following table presents operating, investing and financing cash flow activities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Cash Flow

Operating cash flows are calculated by adjusting Net income for other significant sources and uses of cash, significant non-cash items and timing differences in the cash settlement of assets and liabilities. 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, Cash flows from operating activities were $929.1 million, primarily from Net income of $305.1 million, adjusted for non-cash intangible amortization and impairments of $771.9 million, including $627.4 million for our Affiliates accounted for under the equity method and included in Equity method income (loss) (net) and $144.5 million for acquired client relationships at consolidated Affiliates. These items were partially offset by timing differences in the cash settlement of assets and liabilities, which reduced operating cash flow by $149.1 million on a net basis. In 2019, approximately 70% of the Cash flows from operating activities were attributable to the controlling interest. 

Investing Cash Flow

For the year ended December 31, 2019, Cash flows used in investing activities were $24.4 million, primarily due to investments in new and existing Affiliates of $162.3 million, partially offset by the receipt of sales proceeds of $117.7 million from the divestment of certain Affiliates. These activities were primarily attributable to the controlling interest. 

Financing Cash Flow

For the year ended December 31, 2019, Cash flows used in financing activities were $934.7 million, primarily due to the return of $421.4 million of capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends on our common stock and $135.5 million of Affiliate equity repurchases and issuances (net). Cash flows used in financing activities also includes the repayment of $39.3 million on a net basis of outstanding debt. These activities were attributable to the controlling interest. Cash flows used in financing activities also includes $347.9 million of distributions attributable to the non-controlling interests.

Affiliate Equity

We periodically repurchase Affiliate equity from and issue Affiliate equity to our consolidated Affiliate partners and our officers, under agreements that provide us with a conditional right to call and Affiliate equity holders with a conditional right to put their Affiliate equity interests to us at certain intervals. For Affiliates accounted for under the equity method, we do not typically have such put and call arrangements. The purchase price of these conditional purchases is generally calculated based upon a multiple of the Affiliate’s cash flow distributions, which is intended to represent fair value. Affiliate equity holders are also permitted to sell their equity interests to other individuals or entities in certain cases, subject to our approval or other restrictions. 

As of December 31, 2019, the current redemption value of $916.7 million for these interests (including $21.6 million of consolidated Affiliate sponsored investment products primarily attributable to third-party investors) has been presented as Redeemable non-controlling interests. Although the timing and amounts of these purchases are difficult to predict, we paid $146.0 million for repurchases and received $10.5 million for issuances of Affiliate equity during 2019, and we expect to repurchase a total of approximately $190 million of Affiliate equity in 2020. In the event of a repurchase, we become the owner of the cash flow associated with the repurchased equity. See Notes 17 and 18 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Share Repurchases

Our Board of Directors authorized share repurchase programs in October 2019, January 2019 and January 2018, authorizing us to repurchase up to 6.0 million, 3.3 million and 3.4 million shares of our common stock, respectively, and these authorizations have no expiry. Purchases may be made from time to time, at management’s discretion, in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of derivative financial instruments and accelerated share repurchase programs. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased 4.1 million shares of our common stock, at an average price 

29
per share of $88.73. As of December 31, 2019, there were a total of 6.9 million shares available for repurchase under our October 2019 and January 2019 share repurchase programs and no shares remained under the January 2018 program.

Debt

The following table presents the carrying value of our outstanding indebtedness. See Note 5 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The carrying value of long-term debt differs from the amount reported in the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, as the carrying value of the long-term debt in the table above is not reduced for debt issuance costs. 

Senior Bank Debt

We have a $1.25 billion revolver and a $450.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility (the “term loan” and, together with the revolver, the “credit facilities”). The revolver matures on January 18, 2024, and the term loan matures on January 18, 2023. Subject to certain conditions, we may increase the commitments under the revolver by up to an additional $500.0 million and may borrow up to an additional $75.0 million under the term loan. 

Under the terms of the credit facilities we are required to meet two financial ratio covenants. The first of these covenants is a maximum ratio of debt to EBITDA (the “bank leverage ratio”) of 3.25x. The second covenant is a minimum EBITDA to cash interest expense ratio of 3.00x (the “bank interest coverage ratio”). For purposes of calculating these ratios, share-based compensation and Affiliate equity expense are added back to EBITDA. As of December 31, 2019, our bank leverage and bank interest coverage ratios were 1.3x and 10.8x, respectively, and we were in compliance with all of the terms of our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolver, and could borrow all capacity and remain in compliance with our credit facilities. 

Senior Notes and Junior Subordinated Notes

As of December 31, 2019, we had the following senior notes and junior subordinated notes outstanding, the respective principal terms of which are presented below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We used a majority of the net proceeds from the junior subordinated notes, issued in 2019, to repay outstanding indebtedness under the revolver, with the remaining proceeds used for other general corporate purposes.

Junior Convertible Securities 

30
As of December 31, 2019, we had 5.15% junior convertible trust preferred securities outstanding (the “junior convertible securities”) with a carrying value of $315.4 million. The carrying value is accreted to the principal amount at maturity ($430.8 million) over a remaining life of approximately 18 years. Holders of the junior convertible securities have no rights to put these securities to us. Upon conversion, holders will receive cash or shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof, at our election. The junior convertible securities are considered contingent payment debt instruments under federal income tax regulations, which require us to deduct interest in an amount greater than our reported interest expense. These deductions will generate annual deferred tax liabilities of $8.4 million. These deferred tax liabilities will be reclassified directly to stockholders’ equity if our common stock is trading above certain thresholds at the time of the conversion of the securities. In August 2019, in accordance with the convertible securities indenture, we adjusted the conversion rate of the junior convertible securities as a result of the cumulative declared dividends on our common stock.

Equity Distribution Program

We have entered into equity distribution and forward equity agreements with several major securities firms under which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of our common stock (immediately or on a forward basis) having an aggregate sales price of up to $500.0 million (the “equity distribution program”). As of December 31, 2019, no sales had occurred under the equity distribution program. 

Derivatives

In 2018, we entered into two separate pound sterling-denominated forward foreign currency contracts (the “forward contracts”) with a large financial institution (the “counterparty”) to access lower interest rates, and concurrently entered into two separate collar contracts with the same counterparty for the same notional amounts and expiration dates as the forward contracts. Certain of our Affiliates also use foreign currency contracts to hedge the risk of foreign exchange rate movements. See Note 6 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Commitments

See Note 7 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Contractual Obligations

The following table presents our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019. Contractual debt obligations include the cash payment of fixed interest.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]__________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) The Affiliate equity repurchase obligations disclosed in the table represent the fair value of obligations put to us and outstanding as of December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31
The table above does not include liabilities for commitments to co-invest in certain Affiliate sponsored investment products or uncertain tax positions of $127.2 million and $65.4 million, respectively. This table also does not include potential obligations relating to our derivative financial instruments (see Note 6 of our Consolidated Financial Statements). These items are excluded as we cannot predict the amount or timing of when such obligations will be paid. 

Recent Accounting Developments

See Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments 

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. See Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our significant accounting policies.

The following are our critical accounting estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements, and due to their subjectivity, actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported.

Fair Value Measurements

Accounting standards define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. These standards establish a fair value hierarchy that gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs.

We make judgments to determine the fair value of certain assets, liabilities and equity interests when allocating the purchase price of our new investments, when revaluing our contingent payment arrangements, when we issue or repurchase Affiliate equity interests and when we test our goodwill, indefinite and definite-lived acquired client relationships or equity method investments for impairment.

In determining fair values that reflect our own assumptions concerning unobservable inputs, we typically use valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analyses, where we make assumptions about growth rates of assets under management, client attrition, asset and performance based fee rates and expenses. In these analyses, we also consider historical and current market multiples, tax benefits, credit risk, interest rates, tax rates, discount rates and discounts for lack of marketability. We consider the reasonableness of our assumptions by comparing our valuation conclusions to observed market transactions and, in certain instances, by consulting with third-party valuation firms. Changes in the assumptions used could significantly impact fair values.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from assets acquired in a business combination that are not separately recognized. We perform a qualitative impairment assessment at least annually to determine if the carrying value of our single reporting unit is in excess of its fair value. In this qualitative assessment, we typically measure the excess of the fair value of our reporting unit over its carrying value using various qualitative and quantitative factors (including our market capitalization and market multiples for asset management businesses). If there is an indication that the carrying value of the reporting unit is in excess of the fair value under this test, then we must determine if a potential impairment is more-likely-than-not. To determine if a potential impairment is more-likely-than-not, we perform a single step quantitative test with any excess of carrying value over fair value recorded as an expense in Intangible amortization and impairments. 

We completed our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of September 30, 2019 and no impairment was indicated. For purposes of our assessment, we considered various qualitative and quantitative factors and determined that the fair value of our reporting unit was substantially greater than its respective carrying amount, including goodwill. 

Indefinite-Lived Acquired Client Relationships

Indefinite-lived acquired client relationships include investment advisory contracts between our Affiliates and their mutual funds and other retail-oriented investment products. Because these contracts are with the investment products themselves, and not with the underlying investors, and the contracts between our Affiliates and the investment products are typically renewed on an annual basis, industry practice under GAAP is to consider the contract life to be indefinite and, as a result, not amortizable.

32
We perform indefinite-lived acquired client relationship impairment assessments annually, or more frequently should circumstances suggest fair value has declined below the related carrying value. For purposes of our assessments, we consider various qualitative factors (including market multiples) and determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of each asset group is greater than its carrying amount. If we determine that the fair value has declined below our related carrying value, we perform discounted cash flow analyses to determine the fair value of the asset group and record an expense in Intangible amortization and impairments to reduce the carrying value to its fair value. 

 For the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed our annual assessment and recorded a $35.0 million expense to reduce the carrying value to fair value of an indefinite-lived acquired client relationship. See Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. No other impairments were indicated. 

Definite-Lived Acquired Client Relationships

Definite-lived acquired client relationships include investment advisory contracts between our Affiliates and their underlying investors, and are amortized over their expected period of economic benefit. Significant judgment is required to estimate the period that these assets will contribute to our cash flows and the pattern over which these assets will provide an economic benefit. Formally, on an annual basis, or more frequently should client attrition trends warrant a potential revision, we review historical and projected attrition rates and other events that may influence our projections of the future period of economic benefit that we will derive from these relationships. Changes in the expected period of economic benefit of these assets may warrant changes in the period over which the assets are amortized.

We perform definite-lived acquired client relationship impairment assessments annually, or more frequently should client attrition trends suggest fair value has declined below the related carrying value. If we determine that the fair value has declined below our related carrying value, an expense is recorded in Intangible amortization and impairments to reduce the carrying value to its fair value. We assess each of our definite-lived acquired client relationships for impairment by comparing their carrying value to the projected undiscounted cash flows of the acquired client relationships. 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we completed our annual assessment and noted that projected undiscounted cash flows over the remaining life of each of these assets exceed their carrying value and, accordingly, no impairments were identified.

Equity Method Investments in Affiliates

We periodically perform assessments to determine if fair value may have declined below related carrying value for our equity method investments in Affiliates for a period that we consider to be other-than-temporary. Where we believe that such decline may have occurred, we determine the amount of impairment using valuation methods, such as discounted cash flow techniques. Impairments are recorded as an expense in Equity method income (loss) (net) to reduce the carrying value of the Affiliate to its fair value.

We make judgments to determine fair value when we test our equity method investments for impairment, and use valuation techniques that include discounted cash flow analyses, where we make assumptions about growth rates of projected assets under management, client attrition, asset and performance based fees and expenses. In these analyses, we also make judgments about tax benefits, tax rates and discount rates. We consider the reasonableness of our assumptions by comparing our valuation conclusions to observed market transactions and, in certain instances, by consulting with third-party valuation firms. Changes in these assumptions could significantly impact the respective fair value of an equity method investment in an Affiliate.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded $485.0 million of expenses to reduce the carrying value to fair value of certain Affiliates. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Income Taxes

We and our Affiliates are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. 

Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. We measure our deferred taxes based on enacted tax rates and projected state apportionment percentages for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recorded in income tax expense in the period in which the change in tax rates is enacted.

33
Our principal deferred tax assets relate to deferred compensation, state and foreign loss carryforwards and the indirect benefits of uncertain foreign tax positions. We regularly assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets, considering all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. A valuation allowance is utilized to adjust the carrying values of deferred tax assets to the amount that is more-likely-than-not to be realized.

We record unrecognized tax benefits based on whether it is more-likely-than-not that uncertain tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position. If it is determined an uncertain tax position is more-likely-than-not to be sustained, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority.

See Note 20 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Share-Based Compensation and Affiliate Equity

We have share-based compensation arrangements covering directors, senior management and employees. Our share-based compensation arrangements typically vest and become fully exercisable over three to five years of continued employment and, in some cases, may require the satisfaction of certain performance conditions. 

We determine the fair value of our share-based compensation arrangements on their grant date and record compensation expense based on the number of awards expected to vest. For restricted stock units, we determine the fair value of the units using our share price on the date of grant. For stock options, we estimate the fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which requires us to make assumptions about the volatility and dividend yield of our common stock and the expected life of our stock options. In measuring expected volatility, we consider both the historical volatility of our common stock, as well as the current implied volatility from traded options. For certain of our awards with performance conditions, the number of restricted stock units or stock options expected to vest may change over time depending upon the performance level achieved. 

For share-based compensation arrangements without performance conditions, we recognize expense based on the number of awards expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, including grants that are subject to graded vesting. For all other arrangements, we recognize expense based on the number of awards expected to vest on a straight-line basis for each separately vesting portion of the award. 

From time to time, we grant equity interests in our Affiliates to consolidated Affiliate partners and our officers, with vesting, forfeiture and repurchase terms established at the date of grant. The fair value of the equity interests is determined as of the date of grant using a discounted cash flow analysis. Key valuation assumptions include projected assets under management, asset and performance based fees, tax rates, discount rates and discounts for lack of marketability.

Redeemable non-controlling interests represent the currently redeemable value of Affiliate equity interests. We may pay for these Affiliate equity purchases in cash, shares of our common stock or other forms of consideration, at our election. We generally value these interests upon their transfer or repurchase by applying market multiples to cash flows, which is intended to represent fair value. The use of different assumptions could change the value of these interests, including the amount of compensation expense, if any, that we may report upon their transfer or repurchase.

See Notes 16, 17 and 18 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk