Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Assets Under Management Market Price Risk

Our Consolidated revenue and equity method revenue are derived primarily from asset based fees that are typically determined as a percentage of the value of a client’s assets under management. Such values are affected by changes in financial markets (including declines in the capital markets, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates or the yield curve, and other market factors) and, accordingly, declines in the financial markets may negatively impact our Consolidated revenue and equity method revenue. 

As of December 31, 2019, we estimate a proportional 1% change in the value of our assets under management would have resulted in an annualized change in asset based fees in Consolidated revenue of $19.4 million for our consolidated Affiliates and in asset based fees in equity method revenue of $15.8 million for our Affiliates accounted for under the equity method. 

34
This proportional increase or decrease excludes assets under management on which asset based fees are charged on committed capital.

Interest Rate Risk

We have fixed rates of interest on our senior notes, junior subordinated notes and junior convertible securities. While a change in market interest rates would not affect the interest expense incurred on our fixed rate securities, such a change may affect the fair value of these securities. We estimate that a 1% change in interest rates would have resulted in a net change in the fair value of our fixed rate securities of $129.1 million as of December 31, 2019. This estimate increased relative to the prior year primarily due to the issuance of our junior subordinated notes in 2019. We pay a variable rate of interest on our credit facilities at specified rates, based either on an applicable LIBOR or prime rate, plus a marginal rate determined based on our credit rating. As of December 31, 2019, the interest rate for our outstanding borrowings under the credit facilities was LIBOR plus 0.875%. We estimate that a 1% change in interest rates would have changed our annual interest expense on the outstanding balances under our credit facilities by $4.5 million, as of December 31, 2019. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

The functional currency of most of our Affiliates is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our Affiliates have the pound sterling or the Canadian dollar as their functional currency, and are, therefore, impacted by movements in pound sterling and Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, the valuations of our foreign Affiliates with a non-U.S. dollar functional currency change based on fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These changes are recorded as a component of stockholders’ equity. 

 To illustrate the effect of possible changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we estimate a 1% change in the pound sterling and Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rates would have resulted in changes to stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, based on the December 31, 2019 carrying value of Affiliates whose functional currency is the pound sterling or the Canadian dollar, and of our and our Affiliates’ pound sterling-denominated derivative financial instruments. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we estimate a 1% change in the pound sterling and the Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rates would have resulted in annual changes to Income before income taxes (controlling interest) of $1.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively.

35
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data