ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The primary objective of the following information is to provide forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information about our exposure to market risk. The term market risk relates to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in oil, gas, and NGL prices, interest rates, or foreign currency and adverse governmental actions. The disclosures are not meant to be precise indicators of expected future losses, but rather indicators of reasonably possible losses. The forward-looking information provides indicators of how we view and manage our ongoing market risk exposures.

Commodity Price Risk

The Company’s revenues, earnings, cash flow, capital investments and, ultimately, future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices the Company receives for its crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, which have historically been very volatile because of unpredictable events such as economic growth or retraction, weather, political climate, and global supply and demand. The Company’s average crude oil realizations have decreased 8 percent to $60.05 per barrel in 2019 from $65.30 per barrel in 2018. The Company’s average natural gas price realizations have decreased 27 percent to $1.90 per Mcf in 2019 from $2.61 per Mcf in 2018. The Company’s average NGL realizations have decreased 41 percent to $15.74 per barrel in 2019 from $26.87 per barrel in 2018. Based on average daily production for 2019, a $1.00 per barrel change in the weighted average realized oil price would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $87 million, a $0.10 per Mcf change in the weighted average realized price of natural gas would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $36 million, and a $1.00 per barrel change in the weighted average realized NGL price would have increased or decreased revenues for the year by approximately $26 million.

Apache periodically enters into derivative positions on a portion of its projected oil and natural gas production through a variety of financial and physical arrangements intended to manage fluctuations in cash flows resulting from changes in commodity prices. Such derivative positions may include the use of futures contracts, swaps, and/or options. Apache does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. As of December 31, 2019, the Company did not have any commodity derivative positions. See Note 4—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K for notional volumes and terms with the Company’s derivative contracts.

Interest Rate Risk

At December 31, 2019, Apache had approximately $8.2 billion net carrying value of notes and debentures outstanding, all of which was fixed-rate debt, with a weighted average interest rate of 4.88 percent. Although near-term changes in interest rates may affect the fair value of Apache’s fixed-rate debt, they do not expose the Company to the risk of earnings or cash flow loss associated with that debt. Apache is also exposed to interest rate risk related to its interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents balances and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program and credit facilities. As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $247 million, approximately 73 percent of which was invested in money market funds and short-term investments with major financial institutions. A change in the interest rate applicable to the Company’s short-term investments and credit facility borrowings would have a de minimis impact on earnings and cash flows but could impact interest costs associated with future debt issuances or any future borrowings under its commercial paper program, revolving credit facilities, and money market lines of credit.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The Company’s cash activities relating to certain international operations is based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash flows measured in foreign currencies. The Company’s North Sea production is sold under U.S. dollar contracts, and the majority of costs incurred are paid in British pounds. In Egypt, substantially all oil and gas production is sold under U.S. dollar contracts, and the majority of the costs incurred are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions denominated in British pounds are converted to U.S. dollar equivalents based on the average exchange rates during the period.

Foreign currency gains and losses also arise when monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the end of each month. Currency gains and losses are included as either a component of “Other” under “Revenues and Other” or, as is the case when the Company re-measures its foreign tax liabilities, as a component of the Company’s provision for income tax expense on the statement of consolidated operations. A foreign currency net gain or loss of $6 million would result from a 10 percent weakening or strengthening, respectively, in the British pound as of December 31, 2019.

The Company is subject to increased foreign currency risk associated with the effects of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union. Apache has entered into foreign exchange contracts in order to minimize the impact of fluctuating exchange rates for the British pound on the Company’s operating expenses. As of December 31, 2019, the Company has outstanding foreign 

 49

exchange contracts with a total notional amount of £162 million. A 10 percent strengthening of the British pound against the U.S. dollar would result in a foreign currency net gain of $15 million, while a 10 percent weakening of the British pound against the U.S. dollar would result in a loss of $11 million.

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA