ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K, and the risk factors and related information set forth in Part I, Item 1A and Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2019 and 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. Discussions of 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this Form 10-K are incorporated by reference to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 (filed with the SEC on March 1, 2019).

Overview

Apache’s mission is to grow in an innovative, safe, environmentally responsible, and profitable manner for the long-term benefit of its stakeholders. Apache is focused on rigorous portfolio management, disciplined financial structure, and optimization of returns. 

Apache Corporation, a Delaware corporation formed in 1954, is an independent energy company that explores for, develops, and produces natural gas, crude oil, and NGLs. Apache currently has exploration and production operations in three geographic areas: the U.S., Egypt, and offshore the U.K. in the North Sea (North Sea). Apache also has exploration interests in Suriname and other international locations that may, over time, result in reportable discoveries and development opportunities. Apache’s midstream business is operated by Altus Midstream Company through its subsidiary Altus Midstream LP (collectively, Altus). Altus owns, develops, and operates a midstream energy asset network in the Permian Basin of West Texas. Additionally, Altus owns equity interests in a total of four Permian Basin pipelines that will access various points along the Texas Gulf Coast, providing it with fully integrated, wellhead-to-water connectivity. 

Apache’s U.S. unconventional assets are complemented by its conventional international assets in Egypt and the North Sea, each of which adds to the Company’s inventory of exploration and development opportunities and generates cash flows in excess of current capital investments, facilitating the Company’s ability to develop its onshore U.S. properties while maintaining financial flexibility in a volatile commodity price environment. Apache’s diverse portfolio and asset inventory allows for very flexible allocation of capital across the portfolio. Consistent with this strategy, Apache closely monitors hydrocarbon pricing fundamentals and will reallocate capital as part of its ongoing planning process. For additional detail on the Company’s forward capital investment outlook, refer to the “Capital and Operational Outlook” below.

For 2019, Apache reduced its upstream capital costs incurred by approximately 27 percent compared to the prior year in response to lower realized commodity prices. Worldwide crude oil price realizations declined 8 percent, and natural gas and natural gas liquids price realizations were lower by 27 percent and 41 percent, respectively, compared to 2018. Apache’s capital spending reduction aligned with its $2.9 billion of cash from operating activities generated in 2019, which was down $910 million or 24 percent from the prior year. During the year, the Company advanced key environmental, social and governance initiatives, met corporate goals around capital spending and cash returns, and further streamlined and repositioned its asset portfolio. Specifically, the Company closed on several divestitures of non-core, gas-weighted assets in the Oklahoma and Texas panhandle areas. These decisions progressed Apache’s efforts to invest to prioritize long-term returns and cash flow, strengthen its balance sheet, and maintain the Company’s dividend. 

During 2019, Apache reported a loss attributable to common stock of $3.6 billion, or $9.43 per diluted common share, compared to net income of $40 million, or $0.11 per share in 2018. The 2019 results include asset impairments of $2.9 billion and unproved leasehold impairments of $619 million. These non-cash impairments were primarily related to the Company’s upstream assets in Alpine High and gathering and processing assets from the consolidated results of Altus Midstream. Given the prevailing gas and NGL price environment and disappointing performance of recent multi-well development pads, Apache materially reduced planned investment and currently has no future drilling plans at Alpine High.

 28

Operational Highlights

Key operational highlights for the year include:

United States[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

International[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The North Sea region’s Storr exploration discovery came on-line in the fourth quarter of 2019, and its second well at Garten came on-line in the first quarter of 2020. The first well at the Company’s Storr development is a high-rate gas condensate well that is tied back to existing infrastructure at the Beryl Alpha platform. The Garten #2 well encountered approximately 1,200 feet of net pay and compares favorably to the Garten #1 well, which came on-line in November 2018 with initial 30-day production rates of 13 Mb/d and 17 MMcf/d from 700 feet of net pay. Apache holds a 100 percent working interest in the Garten complex.

•During 2019, the Company drilled an exploration well, the Maka Central-1, in Block 58 offshore Suriname and announced a significant oil discovery in January 2020. The well successfully tested the presence of hydrocarbons in multiple stacked targets in the upper Cretaceous-aged Campanian and Santonian intervals. The well confirmed 73 meters of oil pay and 50 meters of light oil and gas condensate pay, and appraisal planning is underway. The Company began drilling its second exploration well, Sapakara West-1, in January 2020. Following completion of the Sapakara West-1, the Company will drill a third, and likely a fourth exploration test in Block 58 during 2020.

•In December 2019, Apache entered into a joint venture agreement to explore and develop Block 58 offshore Suriname. Under the terms of the agreement, Apache and Total S.A. will each hold a 50 percent working interest in Block 58, which comprises approximately 1.4 million acres in water depths ranging from less than 100 meters to more than 2,100 meters. In exchange for a 50 percent interest, Apache will receive various forms of consideration, including $5 billion of carry for its first $7.5 billion of appraisal and development capital and 25 percent carry on all appraisal and development capital beyond its first $7.5 billion. The Company also received $100 million at closing and $75 million in the first quarter of 2020 for reimbursement of 50 percent of all costs incurred on Block 58 to date. Apache will receive an additional $75 million upon achievement of first oil production. Apache will operate the drilling of the first three exploration wells in the block (and may operate a fourth), including the Maka Central-1 well, and subsequently transfer operatorship to Total. 

For a more detailed discussion related to Apache’s various geographic regions, please refer to “Upstream Exploration and Production Properties—Operating Areas” set forth in Part I, Item 1 and 2 of this Form 10-K.

Acquisition and Divestiture Activity

Over Apache’s 65-year history, the Company has repeatedly demonstrated its ability to capitalize quickly and decisively on changes in its industry and economic conditions. A key component of this strategy is to continuously review and optimize Apache’s portfolio of assets in response to these changes. Most recently, Apache has completed a series of divestitures designed to monetize nonstrategic assets and enhance Apache’s portfolio in order to allocate resources to more impactful exploration and development opportunities. These divestments include:

•Midcontinent/Gulf Coast Divestiture In the second quarter of 2019, Apache completed the sale of non-core, gas-weighted assets in the Woodford-SCOOP and STACK plays for aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $223 million. In the third quarter of 2019, Apache completed the sale of non-core, gas-weighted assets in the western Anadarko Basin of 

 29

Oklahoma and Texas for aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $322 million and the assumption of asset retirement obligations of $49 million.

•U.S. Leasehold Divestitures & Other During 2019, the Company also completed the sale of certain other non-core producing assets, GPT assets, and leasehold acreage, primarily in the Permian region, in multiple transactions for total cash proceeds of $73 million.

•Altus Transaction In the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company completed the previously announced agreement with Altus Midstream Company and its then wholly-owned subsidiary Altus Midstream LP (collectively, Altus). Altus owns gas gathering, processing, and transmission assets in the Permian Basin of West Texas, anchored by midstream contracts to service Apache’s production from its Alpine High resource play. Altus primarily generates revenue by providing fee-based natural gas gathering, compression, processing, and transmission services. 

•Altus Pipeline Options  As part of the Altus transaction, Apache contributed options to acquire equity interests in five separate third-party pipeline projects to Altus Midstream LP and/or its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2019, four of the five joint venture equity options had been exercised by Altus to acquire various ownership interests in the associated third-party pipeline limited liability entities.

•U.S. and North Sea Divestitures During 2018, Apache completed the sale of certain non-core assets, primarily leasehold acreage in the U.S. and North Sea regions, in multiple transactions for total cash proceeds of approximately $138 million.

•Canadian Operations On June 30, 2017, Apache completed the sale of its Canadian assets at Midale and House Mountain for total cash proceeds of approximately $228 million. In August of 2017, Apache completed the sale of its remaining Canadian operations for cash proceeds of approximately $478 million, effectively exiting operations in Canada.

•U.S. Leasehold Divestitures During 2017, Apache completed the sale of certain non-core assets, primarily leasehold acreage in the Permian and Midcontinent/Gulf Coast regions, in multiple transactions for total cash proceeds of $798 million.

•North Sea Gathering, Processing, and Transmission (GPT) Facility In November 2017, Apache completed the sale of its 30.28 percent interest in the Scottish Area Gas Evacuation (SAGE) gas plant and its 60.56 percent interest in the Beryl pipeline in the North Sea to Ancala Midstream Acquisitions Limited for cash proceeds of $134 million.

For detailed information regarding Apache’s acquisitions and divestitures, please refer to Note 2—Acquisitions and Divestitures in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

 30

Results of Operations

Oil and Gas Revenues

Apache’s oil and gas revenues by region are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Amounts include revenue attributable to a noncontrolling interest in Egypt.

 31

Production

The following table presents production volumes by region:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Gross oil, natural gas, and NGL production in Egypt were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Includes net production volumes per day attributable to a noncontrolling interest in Egypt of:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)The table shows production on a boe basis in which natural gas is converted to an equivalent barrel of oil based on a ratio of 6 Mcf to 1 bbl. This ratio is not reflective of the price ratio between the two products.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 32

Pricing

The following table presents pricing information by region:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Crude Oil Prices

A substantial portion of our crude oil production is sold at prevailing market prices, which fluctuate in response to many factors that are outside of the Company’s control. Average realized crude oil prices for 2019 were down 8 percent compared to 2018, a direct result of the decreasing benchmark oil prices over the past year. Crude oil prices realized in 2019 averaged $60.05 per barrel.

Continued volatility in the commodity price environment reinforces the importance of our asset portfolio. While the market price received for natural gas varies among geographic areas, crude oil tends to trade within a global market. Price movements for all types and grades of crude oil generally move in the same direction.

Natural Gas Prices

Natural gas, which currently has a limited global transportation system, is subject to price variances based on local supply and demand conditions. Our primary markets include North America, Egypt, and the U.K. An overview of the market conditions in our primary gas-producing regions follows:

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In Egypt, our gas is sold to Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC), primarily under an industry-pricing formula, a sliding scale based on Dated Brent crude oil with a minimum of $1.50 per MMBtu and a maximum of $2.65 per MMBtu, 

 33

plus an upward adjustment for liquids content. Overall, the region averaged $2.83 per Mcf in 2019, which remained flat compared with the prior year.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NGL Prices

Apache’s U.S. NGL production, which accounts for 96 percent of the Company’s total 2019 NGL production, is sold under contracts with prices at market indices based on Gulf Coast supply and demand conditions, less the costs for transportation and fractionation, or on a weighted-average sales price received by the purchaser.

Crude Oil Revenues  Crude oil revenues for 2019 totaled $5.2 billion, a $616 million decrease from the 2018 total of $5.8 billion. An 8 percent decrease in average realized prices reduced 2019 revenues by $470 million compared to 2018, while 2 percent lower average daily production decreased revenues by $146 million. Average daily production in 2019 was 239.4 Mb/d, with prices averaging $60.05 per barrel. Crude oil accounted for 83 percent of Apache’s 2019 oil and gas production revenues and 51 percent of its worldwide production.

Worldwide crude oil production decreased 6.0 Mb/d compared to 2018, primarily a result of lower gross production in Egypt due to natural decline.

Natural Gas Revenues Natural gas revenues for 2019 totaled $678 million, a $241 million decrease from the 2018 total of $919 million. A 27 percent decrease in average realized prices reduced 2019 revenues by $251 million compared to 2018, while 2 percent higher average daily production increased revenues by $10 million. Average daily production in 2019 was 980 MMcf/d, with prices averaging $1.90 per Mcf. Natural gas accounted for 11 percent of Apache’s 2019 oil and gas production revenues and 34 percent of its worldwide production.

Worldwide gas production increased 14.7 MMcf/d compared to 2018, primarily a result of the Alpine High development, partially offset by lower gross production in Egypt due to natural decline and the sale of the Company’s Woodford-SCOOP and STACK plays and western Anadarko Basin assets in the U.S.

NGL Revenues NGL revenues for 2019 totaled $407 million, a $176 million decrease from the 2018 total of $583 million. A 41 percent decrease in average realized prices reduced 2019 revenues by $242 million compared to 2018, while 19 percent higher average daily production increased revenues by $66 million. Average daily production in 2019 was 71.1 Mb/d, with prices averaging $15.74 per barrel. NGLs accounted for 6 percent of Apache’s 2019 oil and gas production revenues and 15 percent of its worldwide production.

Worldwide production of NGLs increased 11.5 Mb/d compared to 2018, primarily a result of the Alpine High development and partially offset by the sale of the Company’s Woodford-SCOOP and STACK plays and western Anadarko Basin assets in the U.S.

Altus Revenues

Apache is the largest single owner of the voting common stock of Altus and has an approximate 79 percent ownership interest in Altus. Altus generates revenue primarily by providing fee-based natural gas gathering, compression, processing, and transmission services. Altus owns and operates a midstream energy asset network in the Permian Basin of West Texas primarily to service Apache’s production from its Alpine High resource play, which commenced production in May 2017. 

During 2019 and 2018, midstream services revenues totaling $136 million and $77 million, respectively, were generated through fee-based contractual arrangements with Apache. These affiliated revenues are eliminated upon consolidation. The increase compared to the prior year was primarily driven by higher throughput volumes from Apache’s drilling activity levels at Alpine High in late 2018 and the first half of 2019. 

Given the prevailing gas and NGL price environment and disappointing performance of multi-well development pads in the second half of 2019, Apache materially reduced planned investment and currently has no future drilling plans at Alpine High. As such, Altus’ aggregate gathering and processing volumes from Apache are expected to decline over time. Other producers developing plays in surrounding areas are expected to provide additional opportunities for Altus to pursue third-party treating, processing, and transportation agreements.

 34

Operating Expenses

The table below presents a comparison of the Company’s operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017. All operating expenses include costs attributable to a noncontrolling interest in Egypt and ALTM.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Lease Operating Expenses (LOE) 

LOE includes several key components, such as direct operating costs, repair and maintenance, and workover costs. Direct operating costs generally trend with commodity prices and are impacted by the type of commodity produced and the location of properties (i.e., offshore, onshore, remote locations, etc.). Fluctuations in commodity prices impact operating cost elements both directly and indirectly. They directly impact costs such as power, fuel, and chemicals, which are commodity price based. Commodity prices also affect industry activity and demand, thus indirectly impacting the cost of items such as rig rates, labor, boats, helicopters, materials, and supplies. Oil, which contributed approximately half of Apache’s 2019 production, is inherently more expensive to produce than natural gas. Repair and maintenance costs are typically higher on offshore properties.

During 2019, LOE increased $8 million, or 1 percent, on an absolute dollar basis compared to 2018. On a per-unit basis, LOE decreased $0.09, or 1 percent, compared to 2018, from $8.47 per boe to $8.38 per boe. LOE in the U.S. decreased 10 percent on a per-BOE basis, partially offset by localized cost increases in Egypt.

Gathering, Processing, and Transmission (GPT) 

GPT expenses include processing and transmission costs paid to third-party carriers and to Altus for Apache’s upstream natural gas production associated with its Alpine High play. GPT expenses also include midstream operating costs incurred by Altus. The following table presents a summary of these expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 35

GPT costs decreased $42 million from 2018. Third-party processing and transmission costs decreased $44 million, primarily driven by a decrease in contracted pricing and the Company’s sale of non-core assets in Oklahoma and Texas. Midstream operating expenses, incurred primarily by Altus, remained relatively flat compared to 2018.

Midstream service affiliate costs increased $57 million from 2018. The increase was commensurate with higher throughput volumes from Apache’s natural gas production at Alpine High. These affiliate costs are eliminated upon consolidation.

Taxes Other Than Income

Taxes other than income primarily consist of severance taxes on properties onshore and in state waters off the coast of the U.S. and ad valorem taxes on properties in the U.S. Severance taxes are generally based on a percentage of oil and gas production revenues. We are also subject to a variety of other taxes, including U.S. franchise taxes.

Taxes other than income totaled $207 million, a decrease of $8 million from 2018, primarily the result of a decrease in severance taxes on lower commodity prices and the divestiture of the Company’s non-core assets in Oklahoma and Texas, partially offset by ad valorem taxes on higher production levels and midstream infrastructure in the U.S.

Exploration Expense

Exploration expense includes unproved leasehold impairments, exploration dry hole expense, geological and geophysical expense, and the costs of maintaining and retaining unproved leasehold properties. Exploration expenses in 2019 increased $302 million compared to 2018. The following table presents a summary of these expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Unproved leasehold impairments increased $405 million compared to 2018. Higher leasehold impairments in 2019 were associated with the Company’s decision to reallocate capital away from planned investment in the Alpine High play. Dry hole expense decreased $80 million compared to 2018, which is associated with reduced exploration activity when compared to the prior year. Exploration overhead decreased $27 million from 2018, primarily a result of a decrease in exploratory activity. The Company drilled 31 and 103 gross exploratory wells in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses 

G&A expenses decreased $25 million, or 6 percent, from 2018. The decrease in G&A expense was primarily related to lower cash-based stock compensation expense resulting from a decrease in the Company’s stock price and lower incentive compensation. The prior year periods also reflect a non-recurring charge to accelerate vesting on outstanding stock awards for certain retirement eligible employees.

Transaction, Reorganization, and Separation (TRS) Costs 

TRS costs totaled $50 million, an increase of $22 million from 2018, primarily the result of severance costs associated with the Company’s reorganization announced during the fourth quarter of 2019. 

Apache has historically employed a decentralized, region-focused approach to operations. In recent years, the Company has centralized certain operational activities in an effort to capture greater efficiencies through shared services. In light of the continued streamlining of the Company’s asset portfolio through divestitures and strategic transactions, in late 2019 management initiated a comprehensive redesign of Apache’s organizational structure and operations that it believes will better position the Company to be competitive for the long-term and further reduce recurring costs. The reorganization is ongoing and is expected to be substantially completed for the technical functions by the end of the first quarter of 2020. Changes for the corporate support functions will be ongoing through most of 2020.

 36

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DD&A) 

Oil and gas property DD&A expense of $2.5 billion in 2019 increased $247 million compared to 2018, primarily a result of a higher depletion rate resulting from negative proved reserve revisions associated with natural gas and NGL pricing. The Company’s oil and gas property DD&A rate increased $1.22 per boe in 2019 compared to 2018, from $13.33 to $14.55. GPT depreciation increased $22 million in 2019 compared to 2018, associated with capital spending to finalize construction on Altus midstream infrastructure.

Impairments 

During 2019, the Company recorded asset impairments totaling $2.9 billion in connection with fair value assessments, including $1.5 billion for oil and gas proved properties in the U.S. primarily in Alpine High, $1.3 billion impairment of GPT facilities primarily in the Altus Midstream reporting segment, $149 million on divested unproved properties and leasehold acreage in the western Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma and Texas, and $21 million of inventory and other miscellaneous assets, including office leasehold impairments from Apache’s recent announcement to close its San Antonio regional office. The impairments for Alpine High and Altus Midstream were associated with the Company’s fourth quarter 2019 capital plan allocation decision to materially reduce planned investment in the Alpine High play.

During 2018, the Company recorded asset impairments totaling $511 million in connection with fair value assessments, including $328 million for oil and gas proved properties in the U.S. and Egypt, $56 million impairment of a gathering and processing facility in Oklahoma, $113 million for the impairment of an equity method investment based on a negotiated sales price, a $10 million impairment on the carrying values of capitalized exploratory well costs related to the sale of unproved properties in the North Sea, and $4 million for inventory write-downs.

The following table presents a summary of asset impairments recorded for 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financing Costs, Net

Financing costs incurred during the period comprised the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net financing costs decreased $16 million from 2018. The decrease is primarily related to lower interest expense and a smaller loss recognized from the extinguishment of debt in two separate debt tender offer transactions occurring during 2019 and 2018 as further discussed below under “Capital Resources and Liquidity.” Interest income in 2019 decreased $9 million compared to the prior year on lower average cash balances held by the Company. 

 37

Provision for Income Taxes

Income tax expense in 2019 totaled $674 million. During 2019, Apache’s effective tax rate was impacted primarily by an increase in the amount of valuation allowance against the Company’s U.S. deferred tax assets. Income tax expense in 2018 totaled $672 million. During 2018, Apache’s effective tax rate was impacted primarily by the adjustment to the provision amounts recorded in 2017 related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA) and an increase in the Company’s valuation allowance.

On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed into law. In addition to reducing the corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018, certain provisions in the TCJA move the U.S. away from a worldwide tax system and closer to a territorial system for earnings of foreign corporations, establishing a participation exemption system for taxation of foreign income. The new law includes a transition rule to effect this participation exemption regime. As a result of the enacted legislation, taxpayers were required to include in taxable income for the tax year ending December 31, 2017, the pro rata share of deferred income of each specified foreign corporation with respect to which the taxpayer is a U.S. shareholder. In 2017, the Company recorded a $419 million provisional deferred tax expense attributable to the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings required under the TCJA.

Also on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), which provides guidance for the application of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 740, Income Taxes, for the income tax effects of the TCJA. SAB 118 provides a measurement period which should not extend beyond one year of the enactment date of the TCJA. In 2018, the Company recorded an additional $103 million deferred tax expense attributable to the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. This deferred tax expense combined with the provisional amount recorded in 2017 were fully offset by available foreign tax credits. The Company completed its analysis of the income tax effects of the TCJA in the fourth quarter of 2018.

Apache recorded a full valuation allowance against its U.S. net deferred tax assets. Apache will continue to maintain a full valuation allowance on its U.S. net deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of this allowance. 

For additional information regarding income taxes, please refer to Note 10—Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

 38

Capital and Operational Outlook 

Apache’s strategic approach and multi-year outlook emphasizes retaining cash flow in excess of the Company’s dividend payments, reducing outstanding debt, prioritizing long-term returns over growth, aggressively managing its cost structure, and advancing exploration and appraisal activities in Suriname. Apache’s differentiated asset portfolio and continued capital allocation discipline will drive these efforts. Apache currently plans to invest $1.6 billion to $1.9 billion in its upstream oil and gas activities in 2020, assuming WTI pricing of approximately $50 per barrel. In terms of capital allocation, Alpine High will receive minimal to no funding, and some capital will be shifted from Permian oil projects to our Egypt region. Based on current plan projections, for 2020, the Company expects to:

•maintain its current dividend;

•retain cash flow to initiate progress on debt reduction goals;

•allocate approximately $200 million to exploration; and

•achieve flat-to-low single-digit corporate oil production growth, year-over-year.

To the extent WTI pricing continues to fall, capital investment will be reduced, as will near-term production outlooks. However, if oil prices move materially higher, the Company will prioritize further debt reduction over increasing capital activity. Apache also continues cost management efforts, centralizing the organization and emphasizing incentives directly related to specific asset performance rather than a region focus. The Company expects to achieve at least $150 million of annual savings from overhead and operating cost reductions associated with this initiative. 

Separate from the Company’s upstream oil and gas activities, Altus will primarily direct capital spending toward its equity method interests in four Permian Basin long-haul pipeline entities, which include the following equity interest ownership stakes:

•16 percent in the Gulf Coast Express natural gas pipeline (GCX);

•15 percent in the EPIC crude pipeline (EPIC);

•26.7 percent in the Permian Highway natural gas pipeline (PHP); and

•33 percent in the Shin Oak NGL pipeline (Shin Oak).

EPIC is installing additional operational storage capacity and completing an additional dock, and PHP is still under construction. The Company estimates that Altus, based on its equity interests in each pipeline, will incur approximately $300 million of additional capital contributions associated with the remaining construction costs in these joint venture pipelines during 2020. Infrastructure build-out for Altus’ GPT assets was substantially completed during 2019, and capital investment for its GPT assets in 2020 is expected to be limited.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

Operating cash flows are the Company’s primary source of liquidity. Apache’s operating cash flows, both in the short-term and the long-term, are impacted by highly volatile oil and natural gas prices, as well as costs and sales volumes. Significant changes in commodity prices impact Apache’s revenues, earnings and cash flows. These changes potentially impact Apache’s liquidity if costs do not trend with changes in commodity prices. Historically, costs have trended with commodity prices, albeit on a lag. Sales volumes also impact cash flows; however, they have a less volatile impact in the short term.

Apache’s long-term operating cash flows are dependent on reserve replacement and the level of costs required for ongoing operations. Cash investments are required to fund activity necessary to offset the inherent declines in production and proved crude oil and natural gas reserves. Future success in maintaining and growing reserves and production is highly dependent on the success of Apache’s drilling program and its ability to add reserves economically. Changes in commodity prices also impact estimated quantities of proved reserves. In the year ended 2019, Apache recognized negative reserve revisions of approximately 11 percent of its year-end 2018 estimated proved reserves as a result of lower prices. If prices for 2020 approximate commodity future prices as of December 31, 2019, the Company is not reasonably likely to report additional negative revisions.

At times, the Company may also elect to utilize available cash on hand, committed borrowing capacity, access to both debt and equity capital markets, or proceeds from the sale of nonstrategic assets for all other liquidity and capital resource needs.

Apache believes the liquidity and capital resource alternatives available to the Company, combined with proactive measures to adjust its capital budget to reflect volatile commodity prices and anticipated operating cash flows, will be adequate to fund short-

 39

term and long-term operations, including Apache’s capital development program, repayment of debt maturities, payment of dividends, and any amount that may ultimately be paid in connection with commitments and contingencies.

For additional information, please see Part I, Items 1 and 2—Business and Properties and Part I, Item 1A—Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Sources and Uses of Cash

The following table presents the sources and uses of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents for the years presented:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The table presents capital expenditures on a cash basis; therefore, the amounts may differ from those discussed elsewhere in this document, which include accruals.

Sources of Cash and Cash Equivalents

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Operating cash flows are the Company’s primary source of capital and liquidity and are impacted, both in the short term and the long term, by volatile oil and natural gas prices. The factors that determine operating cash flows are largely the same as those that affect net earnings, with the exception of non-cash expenses such as DD&A, asset retirement obligation (ARO) accretion, exploratory dry hole expense, asset impairments, and deferred income tax expense.

Net cash provided by operating activities for 2019 totaled $2.9 billion, down $910 million from 2018. The decrease primarily reflects lower commodity prices during 2019 compared to 2018.

For a detailed discussion of commodity prices, production, and expenses, please see “Results of Operations” in this Item 7. For additional detail on the changes in operating assets and liabilities and the non-cash expenses that do not impact net cash provided by operating activities, please see the Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows in the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

 40

Proceeds from Altus Transaction and Asset Divestitures

 In November 2018, Apache and Altus Midstream Company completed a previously announced transaction to create a pure-play, Permian Basin to Gulf Coast midstream C-corporation. Upon close, Altus Midstream Company contributed approximately $628 million of cash, net of transaction expenses, into its then wholly-owned subsidiary Altus Midstream LP. Apache contributed its Alpine High midstream assets into Altus Midstream LP in exchange for an approximate 79 percent ownership interest in Altus Midstream Company and Altus Midstream LP (collectively, Altus). Apache fully consolidates the assets and liabilities of Altus. Proceeds from the Altus transaction were used to fund development of the Altus assets.

Also during 2019 and 2018, Apache recorded proceeds from divestitures totaling $718 million and $138 million, respectively. For information regarding the Company’s acquisitions and divestitures, please see Note 2—Acquisitions and Divestitures in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

Fixed-Rate Debt Borrowings

On June 19, 2019, Apache closed offerings of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, comprised of $600 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.250% notes due January 15, 2030 (2030 notes) and $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.350% notes due July 1, 2049 (2049 notes). The notes are redeemable at any time, in whole or in part, at Apache’s option, subject to a make-whole premium. The aggregate net proceeds of $989 million from the sale of the notes, comprised of net proceeds from the sale of the 2030 notes of $595 million and the 2049 notes of $394 million, were used to purchase certain outstanding notes in cash tender offers and for general corporate purposes.

In August 2018, Apache closed an offering of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured 4.375% notes due October 15, 2028. The notes are redeemable at any time, in whole or in part, at Apache’s option, subject to a make-whole premium. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes of $992 million were used to purchase certain outstanding notes in cash tender offers, repay notes that matured in September 2018, and for general corporate purposes.

Proceeds from Altus Credit Facility  

The construction of Altus’ gathering and processing assets and the exercise of its options for equity interests in four Permian Basin long-haul pipeline entities required capital expenditures in excess of Altus’ cash on hand and operational cash flows. As of December 31, 2019, $396 million in borrowings were outstanding under Altus Midstream LP’s revolving credit facility. The Company anticipates that Altus Midstream LP will continue to utilize revolving credit facility borrowing capacity in addition to Altus’ cash flow from operating activities to fund its future capital needs.

Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest - Altus Preferred Unit Limited Partners 

On June 12, 2019, Altus Midstream LP issued and sold Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units for an aggregate issue price of $625 million in a private offering. Altus Midstream LP received approximately $611 million in cash proceeds from the sale after deducting transaction costs and discounts to certain purchasers. These proceeds were used to fund capital contributions related to Altus’ equity interests in certain of the Permian Basin long-haul pipeline entities and repayment of outstanding principal on its revolving credit facility (discussed above). For more information, please refer to Note 13—Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest - Altus in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

Uses of Cash and Cash Equivalents

Additions to Oil & Gas Property

During 2019 and 2018, exploration and development (E&D) cash expenditures totaled $2.6 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively. Expenditures were allocated across the Company’s portfolio at levels commensurate with cash from operating activities, with a majority of the expenditures being allocated to Apache’s Permian region.

Additions to Altus GPT Facilities

Apache’s cash expenditures in GPT facilities totaled $327 million and $581 million during 2019 and 2018, respectively, nearly all comprising midstream infrastructure expenditures incurred by Altus, which were substantially completed as of December 31, 2019.

 41

Leasehold and Property Acquisitions

Apache completed leasehold and property acquisitions for cash totaling $40 million and $133 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Acquisition investments continued to primarily focus on adding new leasehold positions to the Permian region.

Altus Equity Method Interests

Altus made acquisitions and contributions of $1.2 billion and $91 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, for equity interests in four Permian Basin long-haul pipeline entities and received distributions of $25 million in 2019, which are included in net cash provided by operating activities. The Company received no distributions in 2018. For more information regarding the Company’s equity method interests, please see Note 6—Equity Method Interests in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

Payments on Fixed-Rate Debt 

On June 21, 2019, the Company closed cash tender offers for certain outstanding notes. Apache accepted for purchase $932 million aggregate principal amount of notes for approximately $1.0 billion, which included principal, the net premium to par, and an early tender premium totaling $28 million, as well as accrued and unpaid interest of $14 million. The Company recorded a net loss of $75 million on extinguishment of debt, including $7 million of unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts, in connection with the note purchases. Additionally, on July 1, 2019, Apache’s 7.625% senior notes in original principal amount of $150 million matured and were repaid. 

In August 2018, the Company closed cash tender offers for certain outstanding notes. Apache accepted for purchase $731 million aggregate principal amount of notes for approximately $828 million, which included principal, the discount to par, and an early tender premium totaling $820 million, as well as accrued and unpaid interest of $8 million. The Company recorded a net loss of $94 million on extinguishment of debt, including $5 million of unamortized debt issuance costs and discount, in connection with the note purchases. Apache also made repayments of current year note maturities totaling $550 million during 2018.

Dividends

The Company has paid cash dividends on its common stock for 54 consecutive years through 2019. Future dividend payments will depend on the Company’s level of earnings, financial requirements, and other relevant factors. Common stock dividends paid during 2019 totaled $376 million, compared with $382 million in 2018.

Egypt Noncontrolling Interest

Sinopec International Petroleum Exploration and Production Corporation (Sinopec) holds a one-third minority participation interest in Apache’s oil and gas business in Egypt. Apache made cash distributions totaling $305 million and $345 million to Sinopec in 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Shares Repurchased

In 2013 and 2014, Apache’s Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 40 million shares of the Company’s common stock. Shares may be purchased either in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. The Company initiated the buyback program on June 10, 2013, and through December 31, 2019, had repurchased a total of 40 million shares at an average price of $79.18 per share. During 2018, the Company repurchased a total of 7.8 million shares at an average price of $38.99 per share. During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 40 million additional shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company is not obligated to acquire any specific number of shares and did not purchase any shares during 2019.

Liquidity

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 42

Cash and Cash Equivalents

At December 31, 2019, Apache had $247 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $6 million was held by Altus. The majority of the cash is invested in highly liquid, investment-grade instruments with maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase.

Debt

At December 31, 2019, outstanding debt, which consisted of notes, debentures, subsidiary credit facility borrowings, and finance lease obligations, totaled $8.6 billion, of which approximately $406 million was related to Altus. Current debt as of December 31, 2019, included $11 million for finance lease obligations, of which $10 million was related to Altus.

Available Credit Facilities

In March 2018, the Company entered into a revolving credit facility with commitments totaling $4.0 billion. In March 2019, the term of this facility was extended by one year to March 2024 (subject to Apache’s remaining one-year extension option) pursuant to Apache’s exercise of an extension option. The Company can increase commitments up to $5.0 billion by adding new lenders or obtaining the consent of any increasing existing lenders. The facility includes a letter of credit subfacility of up to $3.0 billion, of which $2.08 billion was committed as of December 31, 2019. The facility is for general corporate purposes and committed borrowing capacity fully supports Apache’s commercial paper program. Letters of credit are available for security needs, including in respect of abandonment obligations assumed in various North Sea acquisitions. As of December 31, 2019, there were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under this facility.

At Apache’s option, the interest rate per annum for borrowings under the 2018 facility is either a base rate, as defined, plus a margin, or the London Inter-bank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus a margin. Apache also pays quarterly a facility fee at a per annum rate on total commitments. The margins and the facility fee vary based upon Apache’s senior long-term debt rating. At December 31, 2019, the base rate margin was 0.075 percent, the LIBOR margin was 1.075 percent, and the facility fee was 0.175 percent. A commission is payable quarterly to lenders on the face amount of each outstanding letter of credit at a per annum rate equal to the LIBOR margin then in effect. Customary letter of credit fronting fees and other charges are payable to issuing banks.

The financial covenants of the 2018 credit facility require Apache to maintain an adjusted debt-to-capital ratio of not greater than 60 percent at the end of any fiscal quarter. For purposes of this calculation, capital excludes the effects of non-cash write-downs, impairments, and related charges occurring after June 30, 2015. At December 31, 2019, Apache’s debt-to-capital ratio as calculated under the credit facility was 31 percent.

The 2018 facility’s negative covenants restrict the ability of Apache and its subsidiaries to create liens securing debt on their hydrocarbon-related assets, with exceptions for liens typically arising in the oil and gas industry; liens securing debt incurred to finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, or capital lease of assets, provided that such debt, when incurred, does not exceed the subject purchase price and costs, as applicable, and related expenses; liens on subsidiary assets located outside of the United States and Canada; and liens arising as a matter of law, such as tax and mechanics’ liens. Apache also may incur liens on assets if debt secured thereby does not exceed 15 percent of Apache’s consolidated net tangible assets, or approximately $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2019. Negative covenants also restrict Apache’s ability to merge with another entity unless it is the surviving entity, dispose of substantially all of its assets, and guarantee debt of non-consolidated entities in excess of the stated threshold.

In November 2018, Altus Midstream LP entered into a revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes that matures in November 2023 (subject to Altus Midstream LP’s two, one-year extension options). The agreement for this facility, as amended, provides aggregate commitments from a syndicate of banks of $800 million. All aggregate commitments include a letter of credit subfacility of up to $100 million and a swingline loan subfacility of up to $100 million. Altus Midstream LP may increase commitments up to an aggregate $1.5 billion by adding new lenders or obtaining the consent of any increasing existing lenders. As of December 31, 2019, there were $396 million of borrowings and no letters of credit outstanding under this facility.

The agreement for Altus Midstream LP’s credit facility, as amended, restricts distributions in respect of capital to Apache and other unit holders in certain circumstances. Unless the Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 4.00:1.00, the agreement limits such distributions to $30 million per calendar year until either (i) the consolidated net income of Altus Midstream LP and its restricted subsidiaries, as adjusted pursuant to the agreement, for three consecutive calendar months equals or exceeds $350.0 million on an annualized basis or (ii) Altus Midstream LP has a specified senior long-term debt rating; in addition, before the occurrence of one of those two events, the Leverage Ratio must be less than or equal to 5.00:1.00. In no event can any distribution be made that would, after giving effect to it on a pro forma basis, result in a Leverage Ratio greater than (i) 5.00:1.00 or (ii) for a specified period after a qualifying acquisition, 5.50:1.00. The Leverage Ratio is the ratio of (1) the consolidated indebtedness of 

 43

Altus Midstream LP and its restricted subsidiaries to (2) EBITDA (as defined in the agreement) of Altus Midstream LP and its restricted subsidiaries for the 12-month period ending immediately before the determination date. The Leverage Ratio as of December 31, 2019 was less than 4.00:1.00. 

The terms of Altus Midstream LP’s Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units also contain certain restrictions on distributions in respect of capital, including the common units held by Apache and any other units that rank junior to the Preferred Units with respect to distributions or distributions upon liquidation. Refer to Note 13—Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest - Altus for further information. In addition, the amount of any cash distributions to Altus Midstream LP by any entity in which it has an interest accounted for by the equity method is subject to such entity’s compliance with the terms of any debt or other agreements by which it may be bound, which in turn may impact the amount of funds available for distribution by Altus Midstream LP to its partners. 

The Altus Midstream LP credit facility is unsecured and is not guaranteed by Apache or any of Apache’s other subsidiaries. 

There are no clauses in either the agreement for Apache’s 2018 credit facility or for Altus Midstream LP’s 2018 credit facility that permit the lenders to accelerate payments or refuse to lend based on unspecified material adverse changes. These agreements do not have drawdown restrictions or prepayment obligations in the event of a decline in credit ratings. However, each agreement allows the lenders to accelerate payment maturity and terminate lending and issuance commitments for nonpayment and other breaches, and if a borrower or any of its subsidiaries defaults on other indebtedness in excess of the stated threshold, is insolvent, or has any unpaid, non-appealable judgment against it for payment of money in excess of the stated threshold. Lenders may also accelerate payment maturity and terminate lending and issuance commitments under the applicable agreement if Apache or Altus Midstream LP, as applicable, undergoes a specified change in control or any borrower has specified pension plan liabilities in excess of the stated threshold. Each of Apache and Altus Midstream LP was in compliance with the terms of its 2018 credit facility as of December 31, 2019.

There is no assurance that the financial condition of banks with lending commitments to Apache or Altus Midstream LP will not deteriorate. We closely monitor the ratings of the banks in our bank groups. Having large bank groups allows the Company to mitigate the potential impact of any bank’s failure to honor its lending commitment.

Commercial Paper Program

As of December 31, 2019, Apache has available a $3.5 billion commercial paper program which, subject to market availability, facilitates Apache borrowing funds for up to 270 days at competitive interest rates. The commercial paper program is fully supported by available borrowing capacity under Apache’s 2018 $4.0 billion committed credit facility. If Apache is unable to issue commercial paper following a significant credit downgrade or dislocation in the market, Apache’s 2018 committed credit facility, which matures in 2024, is available as a 100 percent backstop. As of December 31, 2019, Apache had no borrowings under its commercial paper program.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Apache enters into customary agreements in the oil and gas industry for drilling rig commitments, firm transportation agreements, and other obligations as described below in “Contractual Obligations” in this Item 7. Other than the off-balance sheet arrangements described herein, Apache does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements with unconsolidated entities that are reasonably likely to materially affect our liquidity or capital resource positions.

 44

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019. For additional information regarding these obligations, please see Note 9—Debt and Financing Costs and Note 11—Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes outstanding principal amounts at December 31, 2019. This table does not include future commitment fees, interest expense, or other fees on Altus’ credit facility because they are floating rate instruments, and management cannot determine with accuracy the timing of future loan advances, repayments, or future interest rates to be charged. 

(2)Amounts represent the Company’s undiscounted finance lease obligation related to physical power generators being leased on a one-year term with the right to purchase and a separate lease for the Company’s Midland, Texas regional office building. 

(3)Amounts represent future lease payments associated with oil and gas operations inclusive of amounts billable to partners and other working interest owners. Such payments may be capitalized as a component of oil and gas properties and subsequently depreciated, impaired, or written off as exploration expense. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)Subsequent to December 31, 2019, Apache entered into an agreement to assign approximately $171 million of its firm transportation obligations beginning in March 2020. 

(6)This table does not include the Company’s liability for dismantlement, abandonment, and restoration costs of oil and gas properties or pension or postretirement benefit obligations. For additional information regarding these liabilities, please see Notes 8 and 12, respectively, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

As further described above under “Capital and Operational Outlook,” Altus Midstream LP and/or its subsidiaries have exercised four of the five options to acquire equity interests in third-party joint venture pipelines. Upon exercising each individual option, Altus Midstream LP and/or its subsidiaries may be required to fund future capital expenditures for its equity interest share in the development of the applicable pipeline. EPIC is installing additional operational storage capacity and completing an additional dock, and PHP is still under construction. The Company estimates that Altus, based on its equity interests in each pipeline, will incur approximately $300 million of additional capital contributions associated with the remaining construction costs in these joint venture pipelines during 2020.

Apache is also subject to various contingent obligations that become payable only if certain events or rulings were to occur. The inherent uncertainty surrounding the timing of and monetary impact associated with these events or rulings prevents any meaningful accurate measurement, which is necessary to assess settlements resulting from litigation. Apache’s management believes that it has adequately reserved for its contingent obligations, including approximately $2 million for environmental remediation and approximately $21 million for various contingent legal liabilities. For a detailed discussion of the Company’s environmental and legal contingencies, please see Note 11—Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.

 45

In addition, the Company has potential exposure to future obligations related to divested properties. Apache has divested various leases, wells, and facilities located in the Gulf of Mexico where the purchasers typically assume all obligations to plug, abandon, and decommission the associated wells, structures, and facilities acquired. One or more of the counterparties in these transactions could, either as a result of the severe decline in oil and natural gas prices or other factors related to the historical or future operations of their respective businesses, face financial problems that may have a significant impact on their solvency and ability to continue as a going concern. If a purchaser of our Gulf of Mexico assets becomes the subject of a case or proceeding under relevant insolvency laws or otherwise fails to perform required abandonment obligations, Apache could be required to perform such actions under applicable federal laws and regulations. In such event, Apache may be forced to use available cash to cover the costs of such liabilities and obligations should they arise.

With respect to oil and gas operations in the Gulf of Mexico, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) has issued a Notice to Lessees (NTL No. 2016-N01) significantly revising the obligations of companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico to provide supplemental assurances of performance with respect to plugging, abandonment, and decommissioning obligations associated with wells, platforms, structures, and facilities located upon or used in connection with such companies’ oil and gas leases. While requirements under the NTL have not yet been fully implemented by BOEM, the NTL will likely require that Apache provide additional security to BOEM with respect to plugging, abandonment, and decommissioning obligations relating to Apache’s current ownership interests in various Gulf of Mexico leases. We are working closely with BOEM to make arrangements for the provision of such additional required security, if such security becomes necessary under the NTL. Additionally, we are not able to predict the effect that these changes might have on counterparties to which Apache has sold Gulf of Mexico assets or with whom Apache has joint ownership. Such changes could cause the bonding obligations of such parties to increase substantially, thereby causing a significant impact on the counterparties’ solvency and ability to continue as a going concern.

Insurance Program

We maintain insurance policies that include coverage for physical damage to our assets, general liabilities, workers’ compensation, employers’ liability, sudden and accidental pollution, and other risks. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles or retentions that we must satisfy prior to recovering on insurance. Additionally, our insurance is subject to policy exclusions and limitations. There is no assurance that insurance will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. Further we do not have coverage in place for a variety of other risks including Gulf of Mexico named windstorm and business interruption.

Our current insurance policies covering physical damage to our assets provide up to $1 billion in coverage per occurrence. These policies also provide sudden and accidental pollution coverage.

Our current insurance policies covering general liabilities provide $500 million in coverage, scaled to Apache’s interest. Our service agreements, including drilling contracts, generally indemnify Apache for injuries and death of the service provider’s employees as well as subcontractors hired by the service provider.

Apache purchases multi-year political risk insurance from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) and highly-rated insurers covering a portion of its investments in Egypt for losses arising from confiscation, nationalization, and expropriation risks. The Islamic Corporation for the Insurance of Investment and Export Credit (ICIEC, an agency of the Islamic Development Bank) reinsures OPIC. In the aggregate, these insurance policies provide up to $750 million of coverage to Apache, subject to policy terms and conditions and a retention of approximately $1 billion.

Apache has an additional insurance policy with OPIC, which, subject to policy terms and conditions, provides up to $300 million of coverage through 2024 for losses arising from (1) non-payment by EGPC of arbitral awards covering amounts owed Apache on past due invoices and (2) expropriation of exportable petroleum in the event that actions taken by the government of Egypt prevent Apache from exporting our share of production. The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), a member of the World Bank Group, provides $150 million in reinsurance to OPIC.

Future insurance coverage for our industry could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions. In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable or unavailable on terms economically acceptable.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Apache prepares its financial statements and the accompanying notes in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Apache identifies certain accounting policies as critical based on, among other things, their impact on the portrayal of Apache’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity and the degree of difficulty, subjectivity, and complexity in their deployment. Critical accounting policies cover accounting 

 46

matters that are inherently uncertain because the future resolution of such matters is unknown. Management routinely discusses the development, selection, and disclosure of each of the critical accounting policies. The following is a discussion of Apache’s most critical accounting policies.

Reserves Estimates

Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of natural gas, crude oil, condensate, and NGLs that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing conditions, operating conditions, and government regulations.

Proved undeveloped reserves include those reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Undeveloped reserves may be classified as proved reserves on undrilled acreage directly offsetting development areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, or where reliable technology provides reasonable certainty of economic producibility. Undrilled locations may be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless specific circumstances justify a longer time.

Despite the inherent imprecision in these engineering estimates, our reserves are used throughout our financial statements. For example, since we use the units-of-production method to amortize our oil and gas properties, the quantity of reserves could significantly impact our DD&A expense. A material adverse change in the estimated volumes of reserves could result in property impairments. Finally, these reserves are the basis for our supplemental oil and gas disclosures.

Reserves are calculated using an unweighted arithmetic average of commodity prices in effect on the first day of each of the previous 12 months, held flat for the life of the production, except where prices are defined by contractual arrangements. Operating costs, production and ad valorem taxes and future development costs are based on current costs with no escalation.

Apache has elected not to disclose probable and possible reserves or reserve estimates in this filing.

Oil and Gas Exploration Costs

Apache accounts for its exploration and production activities using the successful efforts method of accounting. Costs of acquiring unproved and proved oil and gas leasehold acreage are capitalized. Costs of drilling and equipping productive wells, including development dry holes, and related production facilities are also capitalized. Oil and gas exploration costs, other than the costs of drilling exploratory wells, are charged to expense as incurred. Costs associated with drilling an exploratory well are initially capitalized, or suspended, pending a determination as to whether proved reserves have been found. On a quarterly basis, management reviews the status of all suspended exploratory well costs in light of ongoing exploration activities and determines whether the Company is making sufficient progress in its ongoing exploration and appraisal efforts or, in the case of discoveries requiring government sanctioning, whether development negotiations are underway and proceeding as planned. If management determines that future appraisal drilling or development activities are unlikely to occur, associated suspended exploratory well costs are recorded as dry hole expense and reported in exploration expense in the statement of consolidated operations. Otherwise, the costs of exploratory wells remain capitalized.

Long-Lived Asset Impairments

Long-lived assets used in operations, including proved oil and gas properties and GPT assets, are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate a possible significant deterioration in future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset. Individual assets are grouped for impairment purposes based on a judgmental assessment of the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets. If there is an indication that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recovered, the asset is assessed by management through an established process in which changes to significant assumptions such as prices, volumes, and future development plans are reviewed. If, upon review, the sum of the undiscounted pre-tax cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset group, the carrying value is written down to estimated fair value. Because there usually is a lack of quoted market prices for long-lived assets, the fair value of impaired assets is assessed by management using the income approach.

 47

Under the income approach, the fair value of each asset group is estimated based on the present value of expected future cash flows. The income approach is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of forecasted revenue and operating costs, proved reserves, the success of future exploration for and development of unproved reserves, expected throughput volumes for GPT assets, discount rates, and other variables. Key assumptions used in developing a discounted cash flow model described above include estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves; estimates of market prices considering forward commodity price curves as of the measurement date; and estimates of operating, administrative, and capital costs adjusted for inflation. We discount the resulting future cash flows using a discount rate believed to be consistent with those applied by market participants. 

To assess the reasonableness of our fair value estimate, when available we use a market approach to compare the fair value to similar assets. This requires management to make certain judgments about the selection of comparable assets, recent comparable asset transactions, and transaction premiums.

Although we base the fair value estimate of each asset group on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, those assumptions are inherently unpredictable and uncertain, and actual results could differ from the estimate. Negative revisions of estimated reserves quantities, increases in future cost estimates, divestiture of a significant component of the asset group, or sustained decreases in crude oil or natural gas prices could lead to a reduction in expected future cash flows and possibly an additional impairment of long-lived assets in future periods.

Over the past several years, the Company has experienced substantial volatility in commodity prices, which impacted our future development plans and operating cash flows. As such, we recorded impairments of certain proved oil and gas properties and gathering, processing, and transmission facilities in 2019 and 2018. For discussion of these impairments, see “Fair Value Measurements” of Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Asset Retirement Obligation (ARO)

The Company has significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and restore land or seabed at the end of oil and gas production operations. Apache’s removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells and removing and disposing of offshore oil and gas platforms in the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico. Estimating the future restoration and removal costs is difficult and requires management to make estimates and judgments. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety, and public relations considerations.

ARO associated with retiring tangible long-lived assets is recognized as a liability in the period in which the legal obligation is incurred and becomes determinable. The liability is offset by a corresponding increase in the underlying asset. The ARO liability reflects the estimated present value of the amount of dismantlement, removal, site reclamation, and similar activities associated with Apache’s oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets. The Company utilizes current retirement costs to estimate the expected cash outflows for retirement obligations. Inherent in the present value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate settlement amounts, inflation factors, credit-adjusted discount rates, timing of settlement, and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental, and political environments. Accretion expense is recognized over time as the discounted liability is accreted to its expected settlement value.

Income Taxes

Our oil and gas exploration and production operations are subject to taxation on income in numerous jurisdictions worldwide. We record deferred tax assets and liabilities to account for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements and our tax returns. We routinely assess the ability to realize our deferred tax assets. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized under accounting standards, the tax asset would be reduced by a valuation allowance. Numerous judgments and assumptions are inherent in the determination of future taxable income, including factors such as future operating conditions (particularly as related to prevailing oil and gas prices).

The Company regularly assesses and, if required, establishes accruals for uncertain tax positions that could result from assessments of additional tax by taxing jurisdictions in countries where the Company operates. The Company recognizes a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, based on the technical merits of the position. These accruals for uncertain tax positions are subject to a significant amount of judgment and are reviewed and adjusted on a periodic basis in light of changing facts and circumstances considering the progress of ongoing tax audits, case law, and any new legislation. The Company believes that its accruals for uncertain tax positions are adequate in relation to the potential for any additional tax assessments.

 48

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK