ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is intended to help provide an understanding of our business, financial condition and results of operations. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. This report, including the following MD&A, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events or trends that should be read in conjunction with the factors described under “Forward-Looking Statements” included in this report. Actual results or developments could differ materially from those projected in such statements as a result of the factors described under “Forward-Looking Statements” as well as the risk factors described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this report.

Capitalized terms used without definition have the meanings provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Executive Overview

Business Description

Our strategic vision is to be the leading apartment company in select U.S. markets, providing a range of distinctive living experiences that customers value. We pursue this vision by targeting what we believe are among the best markets and submarkets, leveraging our strategic capabilities in market research and consumer insight and being disciplined in our capital allocation and balance sheet management. Our communities are predominately upscale and generally command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services. We regularly evaluate the allocation of our investments by the amount of invested capital and by product type within our individual markets.

We develop, redevelop, acquire, own and operate multifamily apartment communities primarily in New England, the New York/New Jersey metro area, the Mid-Atlantic, the Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California. We focus on leading metropolitan areas that we believe are characterized by growing employment in high wage sectors of the economy, higher cost of home ownership and a diverse and vibrant quality of life. We believe these market characteristics offer the opportunity for superior risk-adjusted returns over the long-term on apartment community investments relative to other markets that do not have these characteristics. We believe that the Denver, Colorado, and Southeast Florida markets share these characteristics, and in 2017 we began to invest in these markets through acquisitions and developments. We seek to create long-term shareholder value by accessing capital on cost effective terms; deploying that capital to develop, redevelop and acquire apartment communities in our selected markets; operating apartment communities; and selling communities when they no longer meet our long-term investment strategy or when pricing is attractive. 

2019 Financial Highlights

Net income attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $785,974,000, a decrease of $188,551,000, or 19.3%, from the prior year. The decrease is primarily attributable to decreases in real estate sales and related gains, increases in depreciation expense and income tax expense and decreases in joint venture real estate gains from the prior year. These amounts were partially offset by increases in NOI from newly developed, acquired and existing operating communities, as well as decreases in interest expense and loss on extinguishment of debt, net from the prior year.

Established Communities NOI for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased by $39,149,000, or 3.1%, over the prior year. The increase was driven by an increase in rental revenue of 2.9%, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses of 2.8% over 2018. 

During 2019, we raised approximately $1,278,098,000 of gross capital through the issuance of unsecured notes, sale of common shares under CEP IV and V, including settlement of the Forward, and the sale of consolidated operating communities and other real estate. This amount does not include proceeds from joint venture dispositions. The funds raised from the sale of real estate consist of the proceeds from the sale of six operating communities and two ancillary land parcels. We believe that our current capital structure will continue to provide financial flexibility to access capital on attractive terms.

34
We believe our development activity will continue to create long-term value. During 2019, we:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We also achieved portfolio growth through acquisitions, acquiring five consolidated apartment communities containing an aggregate of 1,175 apartment homes for an aggregate purchase price of $345,450,000. In addition, we purchased our joint venture partner's 45.0% interest in one operating community for $71,280,000, obtaining a 100% ownership interest in that community.

We believe that our balance sheet strength, as measured by our current level of indebtedness, our current ability to service interest and other fixed charges, and our current moderate use of financial encumbrances (such as secured financing) provide us with adequate access to liquidity from the capital markets. We expect to be able to meet our reasonably foreseeable liquidity needs, as they arise, through a combination of one or more of the following sources: existing cash on hand; operating cash flows; borrowings under our Credit Facility; secured debt; the issuance of corporate securities (which could include unsecured debt, preferred equity and/or common equity); the sale of apartment communities; or through the formation of joint ventures. See the discussion under "Liquidity and Capital Resources."

Communities Overview

As of December 31, 2019 we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 297 apartment communities containing 86,846 apartment homes in 11 states and the District of Columbia, of which 22 communities were under development and two communities were under redevelopment. Of these communities, 14 were owned by entities that were not consolidated for financial reporting purposes, including five owned by the NYC Joint Venture, four owned by the U.S. Fund, two owned by the AC JV and one that is being developed within a joint venture. In addition, we held a direct or indirect ownership interest in Development Rights to develop an additional 27 wholly-owned communities that, if developed as expected, will contain an estimated 9,587 apartment homes.

Our real estate investments consist primarily of Current Communities, Development Communities and Development Rights. Our Current Communities are further distinguished as Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities, Redevelopment Communities and Unconsolidated Communities.

Established Communities are generally consolidated communities in markets where we have a significant presence that were owned and had stabilized occupancy as of the beginning of the prior year, allowing for a meaningful comparison of operating results between years. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other completed consolidated communities that have stabilized occupancy during the fiscal year. Lease-Up Communities are consolidated communities where construction has been complete for less than one year and stabilized occupancy has not been achieved. Redevelopment Communities are consolidated communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the fiscal year. Unconsolidated Communities are communities that we have an indirect ownership interest in through our investment interest in an unconsolidated joint venture. A more detailed description of our reportable segments and other related operating information can be found in Note 8, “Segment Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Although each of these categories is important to our business, we generally evaluate overall operating, industry and market trends based on the operating results of Established Communities, for which a detailed discussion can be found in “Results of Operations” as part of our discussion of overall operating results. We evaluate our current and future cash needs and future operating potential based on acquisition, disposition, development, redevelopment and financing activities within Other Stabilized, Redevelopment and Development Communities. Discussions related to current and future cash needs and financing activities can be found under "Liquidity and Capital Resources."

35
NOI of our current operating communities is one of the financial measures that we use to evaluate the performance of our communities. NOI is affected by the demand and supply dynamics within our markets, our rental rates and occupancy levels and our ability to control operating costs. Our overall financial performance is also impacted by the general availability and cost of capital and the performance of newly developed, redeveloped and acquired apartment communities.

Results of Operations

Our year-over-year operating performance is primarily affected by both overall and individual geographic market conditions and apartment fundamentals and is reflected in changes in NOI of our Established Communities; NOI derived from acquisitions and development completions; the loss of NOI related to disposed communities; and capital market and financing activity. A comparison of our operating results for 2019 and 2018 follows (dollars in thousands). Discussion of our operating results for 2017 and comparison to 2018 can be found in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 22, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________________________

(1) Historically for years prior to January 1, 2019, we presented charges for uncollectible lease revenue in direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes. With the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases, we are presenting such charges as an adjustment to rental and other income in our consolidated financial statements on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2019.

(2) Percent change is not meaningful.

36
Net income attributable to common stockholders decreased $188,551,000, or 19.3%, to $785,974,000 in 2019 from 2018, primarily attributable to decreases in real estate sales and related gains, increases in depreciation expense and income tax expense and decreases in joint venture real estate gains from the prior year. These amounts were partially offset by increases in NOI from newly developed, acquired and existing operating communities, as well as decreases in interest expense and loss on extinguishment of debt, net from the prior year. 

NOI is considered by management to be an important and appropriate supplemental performance measure to net income because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level or financing-related costs. NOI reflects the operating performance of a community and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of individual assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different financing and overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead as a result of acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or group of assets. We define NOI as total property revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excluding corporate-level income (including management, development and other fees), corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, expensed transaction, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries, interest expense, net, loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net, general and administrative expense, equity in income of unconsolidated real estate entities, depreciation expense, corporate income tax (benefit) expense, casualty and impairment loss (gain), net, gain on sale of communities, loss (gain) on other real estate transactions, net, for-sale condominiums marketing and administrative costs and net operating income from real estate assets sold or held for sale.

NOI does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, and NOI should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. NOI should also not be considered an alternative to net cash flow from operating activities, as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity, nor is NOI indicative of cash available to fund cash needs. Reconciliations of NOI for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 to net income for each year are as follows (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The NOI increase for 2019 as compared to 2018 consists of changes in the following categories (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

37
The increase in our Established Communities' NOI in 2019 is due to increased rental rates, partially offset by increased operating expenses. 

Historically for years prior to January 1, 2019, we presented charges related to uncollectible lease revenue in operating expenses. With the adoption of ASU 2016-02, Leases, we are presenting such charges as an adjustment to revenue in our consolidated financial statements on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2019. For reported segment financial information for the year ended December 31, 2018, including for Established Communities as discussed below, we have also included such charges as an adjustment to revenue for all prior years presented in order to provide comparability.

Rental and other income increased in 2019 compared to the prior year due to additional rental income generated from newly developed, acquired and existing operating communities and an increase in rental rates at our Established Communities, partially offset by a decrease in rental income from communities sold. The change in classification of charges for uncollectible lease revenue, as described above, partially offsets the increase in rental and other income for the year ended December 31, 2019 over the prior year. 

Consolidated Communities—The weighted average number of occupied apartment homes for consolidated communities decreased to 72,901 apartment homes for 2019, as compared to 73,385 homes for 2018. The weighted average monthly rental revenue per occupied apartment home increased to $2,647 for 2019 as compared to $2,588 in 2018.

The following table presents the year to date change in rental revenue, including the attribution of the change between rental rates and Economic Occupancy, for Established Communities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________________________

(1) Economic occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue. Economic occupancy is defined as gross potential revenue less vacancy loss, as a percentage of gross potential revenue. Gross potential revenue is determined by valuing occupied homes at leased rates and vacant homes at market rents.

(2) The New York State Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019, which was signed into law on June 14, 2019, now limits some of the fees we previously charged in New York State (including late fees and new lease application fees), eliminates our ability to raise rents on rent stabilized apartments up to the full legal rent when residents with a preferential rent renew their lease, and implements other changes that are expected to limit our rent increases on rent stabilized apartments and generally increases tenant rights. We expect the impact of the New York State Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019 to be immaterial to our Metro New York/New Jersey results of operations.

Management, development and other fees increased $1,388,000, or 38.9%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to increased property management fees earned from the NYC Joint Venture that was formed in December 2018, partially offset by lower property and asset management fees earned as a result of dispositions from the U.S. Fund and the AC JV.

Direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes decreased $14,041,000, or 3.2%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to the change in classification of charges for uncollectible lease revenue, as described above, as well as a decrease from dispositions in the prior and current years, partially offset by an increase due to the addition of newly developed and acquired apartment communities.

38
For Established Communities, direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes, increased $7,974,000, or 2.5%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to increased property insurance costs, compensation and maintenance expense.

Property taxes increased $11,398,000, or 4.7%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to the addition of newly developed and acquired apartment communities and increased assessments for the Company's stabilized portfolio, partially offset by decreased property taxes from dispositions.

For Established Communities, property taxes increased $6,103,000, or 3.3%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to increased assessments and rates in the current year in the Company's East Coast and Northern and Southern California markets, as well as successful appeals in the Company's Pacific Northwest market in the prior year. These increases are partially offset by decreased tax rates in the Pacific Northwest and a successful appeal in Northern California in the current year. For communities in California, property tax changes are determined by the change in the California Consumer Price Index, with increases limited by law (Proposition 13). We evaluate property tax increases internally and also engage third-party consultants to assist in our evaluations. We appeal property tax increases when appropriate.

Corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses increased $4,193,000, or 5.0%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to increased compensation related costs and spending on corporate initiatives in the current year, partially offset by decreased advocacy contributions in the current year compared to the prior year.

Expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries primarily reflect costs incurred for development pursuits not yet considered probable for development, as well as the abandonment of Development Rights and costs related to abandoned acquisition and disposition pursuits. These costs can be volatile, particularly in periods of increased acquisition pursuit activity, periods of economic downturn or when there is limited access to capital, and therefore may vary significantly from year to year. Expensed acquisition, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries, increased $1,726,000, or 52.9%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year.

Interest expense, net decreased $17,389,000, or 7.9%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year. This category includes interest costs offset by capitalized interest pertaining to development and redevelopment activity, amortization of premium/discount on debt, and interest income. The decrease in 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in outstanding consolidated secured indebtedness and an increase in capitalized interest, partially offset by an increase in outstanding unsecured indebtedness. 

Loss on the extinguishment of debt, net reflects prepayment penalties, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs and premiums from our debt repurchase and retirement activity, or payments to acquire our outstanding debt at amounts above or below the carrying basis of the debt acquired. Loss on the extinguishment of debt, net decreased $16,890,000, or 96.6%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year. The loss of $17,492,000 in 2018 was due to:

•a prepayment penalty of $8,579,000 and the non-cash write-off of deferred financing costs of $347,000 associated with the early repayment of $250,000,000 principal amount of 6.10% unsecured notes; and

•the aggregate prepayment penalty of $3,308,000 and the non-cash write-off of deferred financing costs of $5,258,000 on the repayment or refinancing of $244,546,000 principal amount of mortgage notes secured by six wholly-owned operating communities.

Depreciation expense increased $30,382,000, or 4.8%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to the addition of newly developed and acquired apartment communities, partially offset by dispositions.

General and administrative expense (“G&A”) decreased $2,327,000, or 3.9%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to legal settlement proceeds related to a former Development Right and a construction defect at a community, partially offset by an increase in compensation related expenses in the current year.

Equity in income of unconsolidated real estate entities decreased $6,618,000, or 43.3%, in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to gains on the sale of communities in various ventures in the prior year, coupled with non-cash charges for the depreciation of in-place leases associated with purchase accounting within the NYC Joint Venture, which were not present in the prior year. 

39
Gain on sale of communities decreased in 2019 as compared to the prior year. The amount of gain realized in a given period depends on many factors, including the number of communities sold, the size and carrying value of the communities sold and the market conditions in the local area. The gain of $166,105,000 in 2019 was primarily due to the sale of six wholly-owned operating communities. The gain of $374,976,000 in 2018 was primarily due to the sale of eight wholly-owned operating communities and the recognition of the gain associated with the contribution of five wholly-owned operating communities to the NYC Joint Venture, a venture in which we retained a 20.0% interest. 

For-sale condominium marketing and administrative costs consist of costs associated with the for-sale condominiums of The Park Loggia.

Income tax expense of $13,003,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019 consists of $5,782,000 of income tax expense, primarily related to a net deferred tax liability for the GAAP to tax basis differences at The Park Loggia and $7,221,000 of current and deferred tax expense related to other activity we undertook through taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRS") including the disposition of two wholly-owned operating communities and our sustainability initiatives.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We employ a disciplined approach to our liquidity and capital management. When we source capital, we take into account both our view of the most cost effective alternative available and our desire to maintain a balance sheet that provides us with flexibility. Our principal short-term liquidity needs are to fund:

•development and redevelopment activity in which we are currently engaged;

•the minimum dividend payments on our common stock required to maintain our REIT qualification under the Code;

•debt service and principal payments either at maturity or opportunistically before maturity; and

•normal recurring operating expenses and corporate overhead expenses.

Factors affecting our liquidity and capital resources are our cash flows from operations, financing activities and investing activities (including dispositions) as well as general economic and market conditions. Operating cash flow has historically been determined by: (i) the number of apartment homes currently owned, (ii) rental rates, (iii) occupancy levels and (iv) operating expenses with respect to apartment homes. The timing and type of capital markets activity in which we engage, as well as our plans for development, redevelopment, acquisition and disposition activity, are affected by changes in the capital markets environment, such as changes in interest rates or the availability of cost-effective capital. We regularly review our liquidity needs, the adequacy of cash flows from operations and other expected liquidity sources to meet these needs.

We had cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash of $127,614,000 at December 31, 2019, a decrease of $90,250,000 from $217,864,000 at December 31, 2018. The following discussion relates to changes in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash due to operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included elsewhere in this report.

Operating Activities—Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $1,321,804,000 in 2019 from $1,301,111,000 in 2018. The change was driven primarily by increased NOI from existing, acquired and newly developed communities.

Investing Activities—Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1,193,869,000 in 2019. The net cash used was primarily due to:

•investment of $1,052,011,000 in the development and redevelopment of communities;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•capital expenditures of $140,892,000 for our operating communities and non-real estate assets.

These amounts are partially offset by proceeds from the sale of real estate of $422,041,000.

Financing Activities—Net cash used in financing activities totaled $218,185,000 in 2019. The net cash used was primarily due to:

•payment of cash dividends in the amount of $839,646,000; and

•the repayment of mortgage notes payable in the amount of $227,570,000.

40
These amounts are partially offset by:

•proceeds from the issuance of unsecured notes in the amount of $449,804,000;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•the issuance of a mortgage note payable in the amount of $30,250,000.

Variable Rate Unsecured Credit Facility

On February 28, 2019, we entered into a $1,750,000,000 Fifth Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement (the “Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of banks, which replaces our prior $1,500,000,000 credit facility dated as of January 14, 2016. The term of the Credit Facility ends on February 28, 2024.

The Credit Facility bears interest at varying levels based on (i) the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) applicable to the period of borrowing for a particular draw of funds from the facility (e.g., one month to maturity, three months to maturity, etc.) and (ii) the rating levels issued for our unsecured notes. The current stated pricing for drawn borrowings is LIBOR plus 0.775% per annum (2.44% at January 31, 2020), assuming a one month borrowing rate. The stated spread over LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.70% to LIBOR plus 1.45% based upon the rating of our unsecured notes. The Credit Facility also provides a competitive bid option that is available for borrowings of up to 65% of the Credit Facility amount. This option allows banks that are part of the lender consortium to bid to provide us loans at a rate that is lower than the stated pricing provided by the unsecured credit facility. The competitive bid option may result in lower pricing than the stated rate if market conditions allow. The annual facility fee for the Credit Facility remained at 0.125%, resulting in a fee of $2,188,000 annually based on the $1,750,000,000 facility size and based on our current credit rating.

We had $110,000,000 outstanding under the Credit Facility and had $6,632,000 outstanding in letters of credit that reduced our borrowing capacity as of January 31, 2020. In addition, we had $28,767,000 outstanding in additional letters of credit as of January 31, 2020.

The phase-out of LIBOR and expected transition to SOFR as a benchmark interest rate will have uncertain and possibly adverse effects on our LIBOR borrowings. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for further discussion.

Financial Covenants

We are subject to financial covenants contained in the Credit Facility, Term Loans and the indentures under which our unsecured notes were issued. The principal financial covenants include the following:

•limitations on the amount of total and secured debt in relation to our overall capital structure;

•limitations on the amount of our unsecured debt relative to the undepreciated basis of real estate assets that are not encumbered by property-specific financing; and

•minimum levels of debt service coverage.

We were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2019.

In addition, our secured borrowings may include yield maintenance, defeasance, or prepayment penalty provisions, which would result in us incurring an additional charge in the event of a full or partial prepayment of outstanding principal before the scheduled maturity. These provisions in our secured borrowings are generally consistent with other similar types of debt instruments issued during the same time period in which our borrowings were secured.

Continuous Equity Offering Program 

In December 2015, we commenced a fourth continuous equity program (“CEP IV”) under which we were able to sell (and/or enter into forward sale agreements for the sale of) up to $1,000,000,000 of its common stock from time to time. In conjunction with CEP IV, we engaged sales agents who received compensation of up to 2.0% of the gross sales price for shares sold. 

41
In May 2019, we replaced CEP IV with a new continuous equity program ("CEP V") under which we may sell (and/or enter into forward sale agreements for the sale of) up to $1,000,000,000 of our common stock from time to time. Actual sales will depend on a variety of factors to be determined, including market conditions, the trading price of our common stock and determinations of the appropriate sources of funding. In conjunction with CEP V, we engaged sales agents who will receive compensation of up to 1.5% of the gross sales price for shares sold. We expect that, if entered into, we will physically settle each forward sale agreement on one or more dates prior to the maturity date of that particular forward sale agreement, in which case we will expect to receive aggregate net cash proceeds at settlement equal to the number of shares underlying the particular forward agreement multiplied by the relevant forward sale price. However, we may also elect to cash settle or net share settle a forward sale agreement. In connection with each forward sale agreement, we will pay the relevant forward seller, in the form of a reduced initial forward sale price, a commission of up to 1.5% of the sales prices of all borrowed shares of common stock sold. During 2019, we entered into and settled a forward sales agreement, as discussed below. 

On September 25, 2019, we entered into a forward contract under CEP V to sell 947,868 shares of common stock (the "Forward"). The sales price was established based on the stock price during intraday trading on September 25, 2019. In December 2019, we issued 947,868 shares of common stock at a weighted average sales price of $207.96 per share, for net proceeds of $197,122,000, in settlement of the Forward. The proceeds received were determined on the date of settlement, with adjustments during the term of the contract for our dividends as well as for a daily interest factor that varied with changes in the Overnight Bank Funding rate.

In addition to the shares issued in settlement of the Forward, in 2019, we sold 755,054 shares at an average sales price of $198.26 per share, for net proceeds of $147,450,000 under CEP IV, and 239,580 shares at an average sales price of $208.70 per share, for net proceeds of $49,250,000 under CEP V. We have not engaged in sales activity subsequent to December 31, 2019. As of January 31, 2020, we had $752,878,000 remaining authorized for issuance under CEP V.

Forward Interest Rate Swap Agreements

In 2019, in conjunction with the issuance of our 3.30% notes due 2029, we settled $250,000,000 of forward interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges of the interest rate variability of the unsecured notes, making a payment of $12,309,000.

In addition, in 2019 we entered into $350,000,000 of forward interest rate swap agreements executed to reduce the impact of variability in interest rates on a portion of our expected debt issuance activity in 2020, which are outstanding as of December 31, 2019. In February 2020, in conjunction with the pricing of the $700,000,000 principal amount of 2.30% unsecured notes due in 2030, discussed below, we settled $350,000,000 of forward interest rate swap agreements, making a payment of $20,314,000.

Future Financing and Capital Needs—Debt Maturities

One of our principal long-term liquidity needs is the repayment of long-term debt at maturity. For both our unsecured and secured notes, a portion of the principal of these notes may be repaid prior to maturity. Early retirement of our unsecured or secured notes could result in gains or losses on extinguishment. If we do not have funds on hand sufficient to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, it will be necessary for us to refinance or otherwise provide liquidity to satisfy the debt at maturity. This refinancing may be accomplished by uncollateralized private or public debt offerings, equity issuances, additional debt financing that is secured by mortgages on individual communities or groups of communities or borrowings under our Credit Facility. Although we believe we will have the capacity to meet our currently anticipated liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that additional debt financing or debt or equity offerings will be available or, if available, that they will be on terms we consider satisfactory.

In addition to the Credit Facility, the following debt activity occurred during 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In August 2019, as part of the tax-deferred exchange associated with the disposition of Archstone Lexington and acquisition of Avalon Cerritos, we (i) repaid $21,700,000 principal amount of variable rate debt secured by Archstone Lexington at par in advance of its scheduled maturity date and (ii) entered into a $30,250,000 fixed rate note secured by Avalon Cerritos, with a contractual interest rate of 3.26%, maturing in August 2029. Further discussion of the disposition and acquisition activity can be found in Note 6, "Real Estate Disposition Activities," and Note 5, "Investments in Real Estate Entities," of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In February 2020, we priced an underwritten public offering under our existing shelf registration statement for $700,000,000 principal amount of 2.30% unsecured notes due in 2030. We anticipate receiving the net proceeds from this borrowing on February 25, 2020. In addition, we called for redemption of (i) $400,000,000 principal amount of our 3.625% unsecured notes in advance of the October 2020 scheduled maturity and (ii) $250,000,000 principal amount of our 3.95% unsecured notes in advance of the January 2021 scheduled maturity. In conjunction with the redemption of the outstanding unsecured notes due in October 2020 and January 2021, we anticipate recognizing a loss on debt extinguishment comprised of approximately $9,300,000 in prepayment penalties and the non-cash write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.

The following table details our consolidated debt maturities for the next five years, excluding our Credit Facility and amounts outstanding related to communities classified as held for sale, for debt outstanding at December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands). We are not directly or indirectly (as borrower or guarantor) obligated in any material respect to pay principal or interest on the indebtedness of any unconsolidated entities in which we have an equity or other interest.

43
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44
_________________________________

(1)Rates are given as of December 31, 2019 and include credit enhancement fees, facility fees, trustees’ fees, the impact of interest rate hedges, offering costs, mark to market amortization and other fees.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Maturity date reflects the contractual maturity of the underlying bond. There is also an associated earlier credit enhancement maturity date.

(4)During 2019, we repaid this borrowing at par in advance of its scheduled maturity date.

(5)Financed by variable rate debt, but interest rate is capped through an interest rate protection agreement.

(6)In February 2020, we called these borrowings for redemption in advance of their scheduled maturity dates.

(7)During 2019, we repaid this borrowing at par on its scheduled maturity date.

(8)In August 2019, as part of the tax-deferred exchange associated with the disposition of Archstone Lexington and acquisition of Avalon Cerritos, we (i) repaid the borrowing secured by Archstone Lexington at par in advance of its scheduled maturity date and (ii) entered into a new borrowing secured by Avalon Cerritos.

Future Financing and Capital Needs—Portfolio and Capital Markets Activity

In 2020, we expect to meet our liquidity needs from a variety of internal and external sources, which may include (i) real estate dispositions, (ii) cash balances on hand as well as cash generated from our operating activities, (iii) borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility and (iv) secured and unsecured debt financings. Additional sources of liquidity in 2020 may include the issuance of common and preferred equity. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the real estate industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the perception of lenders regarding our long or short-term financial prospects. 

Before beginning new construction or reconstruction activity, including activity related to communities owned by unconsolidated joint ventures, we intend to plan adequate financing to complete these undertakings, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing. In the event that financing cannot be obtained, we may have to abandon Development Rights, write off associated pre-development costs that were capitalized and/or forego reconstruction activity. In such instances, we will not realize the increased revenues and earnings that we expected from such Development Rights or reconstruction activity and significant losses could be incurred.

From time to time we use joint ventures to hold or develop individual real estate assets. We generally employ joint ventures primarily to mitigate asset concentration or market risk and secondarily as a source of liquidity. We may also use joint ventures related to mixed-use land development opportunities and new markets where our partners bring development and operational expertise and/or experience to the venture. Each joint venture or partnership agreement has been individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or partnership agreement. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our objectives through joint ventures.

In evaluating our allocation of capital within our markets, we sell assets that do not meet our long-term investment criteria or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion of the value created over our ownership periods and redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop and redevelop communities. Because the proceeds from the sale of communities may not be immediately redeployed into revenue generating assets that we develop, redevelop or acquire, the immediate effect of a sale of a community for a gain is to increase net income, but reduce future total revenues, total expenses and NOI until such time as the proceeds have been redeployed into revenue generating assets. We believe that the temporary absence of future cash flows from communities sold will not have a material impact on our ability to fund future liquidity and capital resource needs.

45
Unconsolidated Real Estate Investments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Unconsolidated Investments

As of December 31, 2019, we had investments in the following unconsolidated real estate entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting, excluding development joint ventures and limited liability company agreements we entered into, through subsidiaries, with Equity Residential in conjunction with the Archstone Acquisition (collectively, the “Residual JV”). Refer to Note 5, “Investments in Real Estate Entities,” of the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report, which includes information on the aggregate assets, liabilities and equity, as well as operating results, and our proportionate share of their operating results. For ventures holding operating apartment communities as of December 31, 2019, detail of the real estate and associated indebtedness underlying our unconsolidated investments is presented in the following table (dollars in thousands).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________________________

(1)Represents total capitalized cost as of December 31, 2019.

(2)We have not guaranteed the debt of unconsolidated investees and bear no responsibility for the repayment.

(3)Represents weighted average rate on outstanding debt as of December 31, 2019.

(4)Borrowing on this community is comprised of two mortgage loans.

(5)Borrowing on this dual-branded community is comprised of a single mortgage loan.

(6)Borrowing is comprised of a loan made by the equity investors in the venture in proportion to their equity interests.

46
U.S. Fund—During 2019, the U.S. Fund sold one community and the adjacent marina, containing 205 apartment homes and 229 boat slips, for an aggregate sales price of $86,000,000. Our share of the gain in accordance with GAAP was $5,788,000. In conjunction with the disposition of the community, the U.S. Fund repaid $49,800,000 of related secured indebtedness in advance of its scheduled maturity date.

North Point II JV, LP—During 2016, we entered into a joint venture with an institutional investor to develop, own, and operate AVA North Point, an apartment community located in Cambridge, MA, which completed construction during 2018 and contains 265 apartment homes. We owned a 55.0% interest in the venture, and the venture partner owned the remaining 45.0% interest. During 2019, we acquired the 45.0% equity interest of AVA North Point that was owned by our venture partner, for a purchase price of $71,280,000. Upon acquisition, we consolidated AVA North Point as a wholly-owned operating community.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In addition to our investment interests in consolidated and unconsolidated real estate entities, we have certain off-balance sheet arrangements with the entities in which we invest. Additional discussion of these entities can be found in Note 5, “Investments in Real Estate Entities,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report.

We have not guaranteed the debt of our unconsolidated real estate entities, as referenced in the table above, nor do we have any obligation to fund this debt should the unconsolidated real estate entities be unable to do so. In the future, in the event the unconsolidated real estate entities were unable to meet their obligations under a loan, we cannot predict at this time whether we would provide any voluntary support, or take any other action, as any such action would depend on a variety of factors, including the amount of support required and the possibility that such support could enhance the return of the unconsolidated real estate entities and/or our returns by providing time for performance to improve.

There are no other material lines of credit, side agreements, financial guarantees or any other derivative financial instruments related to or between our unconsolidated real estate entities and us. In evaluating our capital structure and overall leverage, management takes into consideration our proportionate share of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities in which we have an interest.

Contractual Obligations

Scheduled contractual obligations required for the next five years and thereafter are as follows as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_________________________________

(1) Interest payments on variable rate debt obligations are calculated based on the rate as of December 31, 2019.

(2)Includes ground leases expiring between October 2026 and March 2142. Amounts do not include any adjustment for purchase options available under the ground leases.

(3) Aggregate finance lease payments include $25,336 in interest costs.

Inflation and Deflation

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an inflationary environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the adverse effect of inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term and therefore expose us to the effect of a decline in market rents. Similarly, in a deflationary rent environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these shorter-term leases.

47
Recent U.S. Federal Income Tax Updates

This summary is for general information purposes only and is not tax advice. This discussion does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to particular holders of our securities in light of their personal investment or tax circumstances.

The following discussion supplements and updates the disclosures under “Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment” in the prospectus dated February 23, 2018 contained in our Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on February 23, 2018.

Consolidated Appropriations Act and Proposed Regulations Updates

On March 23, 2018, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (the “CAA”) was enacted. The CAA amended various provisions of the Code and implicate certain tax-related disclosures contained in the prospectus. Also on June 7, 2019, the Internal Revenue Service promulgated proposed Treasury Regulations under Section 897 of the Code regarding qualified foreign pension funds. While these proposed Treasury Regulations have not yet been finalized, taxpayers generally may rely on the proposed Treasury Regulations. As a result, the discussion under “Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment-U.S. Taxation of Non-U.S. Stockholders-Special FIRPTA Rules” of the prospectus is replaced with the following paragraphs:

Special FIRPTA Rules. To the extent our stock is held directly (or indirectly through one or more partnerships) by a “qualified shareholder,” it will not be treated as a U.S. real property interest for such qualified shareholder. Further, to the extent such treatment applies, any distribution to such shareholder will not be treated as gain recognized from the sale or exchange of a U.S. real property interest. For these purposes, a qualified shareholder is generally a non-U.S. stockholder that (i)(A) is eligible for treaty benefits under an income tax treaty with the United States that includes an exchange of information program, and the principal class of interests of which is listed and regularly traded on one or more stock exchanges as defined by the treaty, or (B) is a foreign limited partnership organized in a jurisdiction with an exchange of information agreement with the United States and that has a class of regularly traded limited partnership units (having a value greater than 50% of the value of all partnership units) on the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq, (ii) is a “qualified collective investment vehicle” (within the meaning of Section 897(k)(3)(B) of the Code) and (iii) maintains records of persons holding 5% or more of the class of interests described in clauses (i)(A) or (i)(B) above. However, in the case of a qualified shareholder having one or more “applicable investors,” the exception described in the first sentence of this paragraph will not apply to the applicable percentage of the qualified shareholder's stock (with “applicable percentage” generally meaning the percentage of the value of the interests in the qualified shareholder held by applicable investors after applying certain constructive ownership rules). The applicable percentage of the amount realized by a qualified shareholder on the disposition of our stock or with respect to a distribution from us attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a U.S. real property interest will be treated as amounts realized from the disposition of U.S. real property interest. Such treatment shall also apply to applicable investors in respect of distributions treated as a sale or exchange of stock with respect to a qualified shareholder. For these purposes, an “applicable investor” is a person (other than a qualified shareholder) who generally holds an interest in the qualified shareholder and holds more than 10% of our stock applying certain constructive ownership rules. 

For FIRPTA purposes, neither a “qualified foreign pension fund” (as defined below) nor a “qualified controlled entity” (as defined below) is treated as a non-U.S. shareholder. Accordingly, the U.S. federal income tax treatment of ordinary dividends received by qualified foreign pension funds and qualified controlled entities will be determined without regard to the FIRPTA rules discussed above, and their gain from the sale or exchange of our stock, as well as our capital gain dividends and distributions treated as gain from the sale or exchange of our stock, will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless such gain is treated as effectively connected with the qualified foreign pension fund’s (or the qualified controlled entity’s) conduct of a U.S. trade or business. A “qualified foreign pension fund” is an organization or arrangement (i) created or organized in a foreign country, (ii) established to provide retirement or pension benefits to current or former employees (including self-employed individuals) or their designees by either (A) such foreign country as a result of services rendered by such employees to their employers, or (B) one or more employers in consideration for services rendered by such employees to such employers, (iii) which does not have a single participant or beneficiary that has a right to more than 5% of its assets or income, (iv) which is subject to government regulation and with respect to which annual information about its beneficiaries is provided, or is otherwise available, to relevant local tax authorities, and (v) with respect to which, under its local laws, (A) contributions that would otherwise be subject to tax are deductible or excluded from its gross income or taxed at a reduced rate, or (B) taxation of its investment income is deferred, or such income is excluded from its gross income or taxed at a reduced rate. A “qualified controlled entity” for purposes of the above summary means an entity all the interests of which are held by a qualified foreign pension fund. Alternatively, under proposed Treasury Regulations that taxpayers generally may rely on, but which are subject to change, a “qualified controlled entity” is a trust or corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country all of the interests of which are 

48
held by one or more qualified foreign pension funds either directly or indirectly through one or more qualified controlled entities or partnerships. 

In addition, the CAA clarified that for purposes of determining if a REIT is a “domestically controlled qualified investment entity” under FIRPTA, the presumption that generally a person holding less than 5% of a REIT’s class of stock that is regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States for five years has been, and will be, treated as a U.S. person applies for testing periods ending on or after December 18, 2015 (e.g., if a testing period ends on June 1, 2018, then the presumption applies for the entire five-year period starting on June 1, 2013).

The CAA also amended numerous Code provisions relating to the new rules applicable to federal income tax audits of partnerships effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 to provide that a broader range of partnership-related items may be adjusted on audit or in other tax proceedings.

Recent FATCA Regulations 

On December 18, 2018, the Internal Revenue Service promulgated proposed Treasury Regulations under Sections 1471-1474 of the Code (commonly referred to as FATCA), which proposed regulations eliminate FATCA withholding on gross proceeds of a disposition of property that can produce U.S. source interest or dividends and thus implicate certain tax-related disclosures contained in the prospectus. While these proposed Treasury Regulations have not yet been finalized, taxpayers are generally entitled to rely on the proposed Treasury Regulations (subject to certain limited exceptions). As a result, the following revisions are made to the prospectus:

•In the first sentence of the fourth paragraph under “Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment - Taxation of Non-U.S. Holders of Debt Securities - Disposition of the Debt Securities,” of the prospectus, the phrase “subject to the discussion below regarding FATCA withholding” is deleted; and 

•The paragraph under “Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment - Other Tax Consequences for Avalon Bay, its Stockholders, and Holders of its Debt Securities - Other U.S. Federal Income Tax Withholding and Reporting Requirements; FATCA” of the prospectus is replaced with the following: 

Other U.S. Federal Income Tax Withholding and Reporting Requirements; FATCA. The FATCA provisions of the Code, subject to administrative guidance and certain intergovernmental agreements entered into thereunder, impose a 30% withholding tax on certain types of payments made to “foreign financial institutions” and certain other non-U.S. entities unless (i) the foreign financial institution undertakes certain diligence and reporting obligations or (ii) the foreign non-financial entity either certifies it does not have any substantial United States owners or furnishes identifying information regarding each substantial United States owner. If the payee is a foreign financial institution that is not subject to special treatment under certain intergovernmental agreements, it must enter into an agreement with the United States Treasury Department requiring, among other things, that it undertakes to identify accounts held by certain United States persons or United States-owned foreign entities, annually report certain information about such accounts, and withhold 30% on payments to account holders whose actions prevent them from complying with these reporting and other requirements. Investors in jurisdictions that have entered into “intergovernmental agreements” may, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, be required to report such information to their home jurisdictions. The compliance requirements under FATCA are complex and special requirements may apply to certain categories of payees. 

Clarification

Finally, the discussion under “Federal Income Tax Considerations and Consequences of Your Investment-U.S. Taxation of Non-U.S. Stockholders-Distributions by AvalonBay” of the prospectus is clarified to explain that the exception to FIPRTA for 10% or smaller holders may apply only if our common stock is regularly traded an established securities market located in the United States.

49
Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by our use of the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “assume,” “project,” “plan,” “may,” “shall,” “will” and other similar expressions in this Form 10-K, that predict or indicate future events and trends and that do not report historical matters. These statements include, among other things, statements regarding our intent, belief or expectations with respect to:

•our potential development, redevelopment, acquisition or disposition of communities;

•the timing and cost of completion of apartment communities under construction, reconstruction, development or redevelopment;

•the timing of lease-up, occupancy and stabilization of apartment communities;

•the timing and net sales proceeds of condominium sales;

•the pursuit of land on which we are considering future development;

•the anticipated operating performance of our communities;

•cost, yield, revenue, NOI and earnings estimates;

•the impact of landlord-tenant laws and rent regulations;

•our declaration or payment of dividends;

•our joint venture and discretionary fund activities;

•our policies regarding investments, indebtedness, acquisitions, dispositions, financings and other matters;

•our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code;

•the real estate markets in Northern and Southern California, Denver, Colorado, and Southeast Florida, and markets in selected states in the Mid-Atlantic, New England, Metro New York/New Jersey and Pacific Northwest regions of the United States and in general;

•the availability of debt and equity financing;

•interest rates;

•general economic conditions including the potential impacts from current economic conditions; 

•trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations; and

•the impact of outstanding legal proceedings.

We cannot assure the future results or outcome of the matters described in these statements; rather, these statements merely reflect our current expectations of the approximate outcomes of the matters discussed. We do not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements, and therefore they may not represent our estimates and assumptions after the date of this report. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. These risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. You should carefully review the discussion under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this report for further discussion of risks associated with forward-looking statements.

Some of the factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:

•we may fail to secure development opportunities due to an inability to reach agreements with third parties to obtain land at attractive prices or to obtain desired zoning and other local approvals;

•we may abandon or defer development opportunities for a number of reasons, including changes in local market conditions which make development less desirable, increases in costs of development, increases in the cost of capital or lack of capital availability, resulting in losses;

•construction costs of a community may exceed our original estimates;

•we may not complete construction and lease-up of communities under development or redevelopment on schedule, resulting in increased interest costs and construction costs and a decrease in our expected rental revenues;

•the timing and net proceeds of condominium sales may not equal our current expectations;

•occupancy rates and market rents may be adversely affected by competition and local economic and market conditions which are beyond our control;

•financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all, and our cash flows from operations and access to cost effective capital may be insufficient for the development of our pipeline which could limit our pursuit of opportunities;

•the impact of new landlord-tenant laws and rent regulations may be greater than we expected;

•our cash flows may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, and we may be unable to refinance existing indebtedness or the terms of such refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness;

50
•we may be unsuccessful in our management of the U.S. Fund, the AC JV or the REIT vehicles that are used with each respective joint venture; 

•we may be unsuccessful in managing changes in our portfolio composition; 

•laws and regulations implementing rent control or rent stabilization, or otherwise limiting our ability to increase rents, charge fees or evict tenants, may impact our revenue or increase our costs; and

•our expectations, estimates and assumptions regarding outstanding legal proceedings are subject to change.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different, or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or a different presentation of our financial statements. Below is a discussion of the accounting policies that we consider critical to an understanding of our financial condition and operating results that may require complex or significant judgment in their application or require estimates about matters which are inherently uncertain. A discussion of our significant accounting policies, including further discussion of the accounting policies described below, can be found in Note 1, “Organization, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cost Capitalization

We capitalize costs during the development of assets. Capitalization begins when we determine that development of a future asset is probable and continues until the asset, or a portion of the asset, is delivered and is ready for its intended use. For redevelopment efforts, we capitalize costs either (i) in advance of taking apartment homes out of service when significant renovation of the common area has begun and continue until the redevelopment is completed, or (ii) when an apartment home is taken out of service for redevelopment and continue until the redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is available for a new resident. Rental income and operating expenses incurred during the initial lease-up or post-redevelopment lease-up period are fully recognized in earnings as they accrue. 

During the development and redevelopment efforts we capitalize all direct costs and indirect costs which have been incurred as a result of the development and redevelopment activities. These costs include interest and related loan fees, property taxes as well as other direct and indirect costs. Interest is capitalized for any project-specific financing, as well as for general corporate financing to the extent of our aggregate investment in the projects. Indirect project costs, which include personnel and office and administrative costs that are clearly associated with our development and redevelopment efforts, are also capitalized. Capitalized indirect costs associated with our development and redevelopment activities are comprised primarily of compensation related costs for associates dedicated to our development and redevelopment efforts and total $48,168,000, $46,857,000 and $47,063,000 for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The estimation of the direct and indirect costs to capitalize as part of our development and redevelopment activities requires judgment and, as such, we believe cost capitalization to be a critical accounting estimate.

There may be a change in our operating expenses in the event that there are changes in accounting guidance governing capitalization or changes to our levels of development or redevelopment activity. If changes in the accounting guidance limit our ability to capitalize costs or if we reduce our development and redevelopment activities without a corresponding decrease in indirect project costs, there may be an increase in our operating expenses. 

We capitalize pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of Development Rights. These costs include legal fees, design fees and related overhead costs. Future development of these pursuits is dependent upon various factors, including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and availability of capital. Pre-development costs incurred for pursuits for which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written off with a charge to expense.

Due to the subjectivity in determining whether a pursuit will result in the development of an apartment community, and therefore should be capitalized, the accounting for pursuit costs is a critical accounting estimate. As of December 31, 2019, capitalized pursuit costs associated with Development Rights totaled $70,486,000.

51
Abandoned Pursuit Costs & Asset Impairment

We evaluate our direct and indirect investments in real estate and other long-lived assets for impairment when potential indicators of impairment exist. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a property may not be recoverable, we assess its recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of the property to its estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying amount exceeds the aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, we recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the property. We assess land held for development for impairment if our intent changes with respect to the development of the land. We evaluate our unconsolidated investments for impairment, considering both the carrying value of the investment, estimated to be the expected proceeds that it would receive if the entity were dissolved and the net assets were liquidated, as well as our proportionate share of any impairment of assets held by unconsolidated investments.

We expense costs related to abandoned pursuits, which include the abandonment of Development Rights and disposition pursuits. These costs can vary greatly, and the costs incurred in any given period may be significantly different in future years. 

Our focus on value creation through real estate development presents an impairment risk in the event of a future deterioration of the real estate and/or capital markets or a decision by us to reduce or cease development. We cannot predict the occurrence of future events that may cause an impairment assessment to be performed, or the likelihood of any future impairment charges, if any. You should also review Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.

52
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK