PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Baker Hughes, a GE company, LLC (BHGE LLC, the Company, we, us, or our) is an energy technology company with a diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain. We conduct business in more than 120 countries and employ approximately 68,000 employees. The Company was formed as the result of a combination between Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI) and the oil and gas business (GE O&G) of General Electric Company (GE) (the Transactions), which resulted in GE owning approximately 62.5% economic interest in the Company and Baker Hughes Company (Baker Hughes) owning the remaining interest. 

SEPARATION FROM GE

In June 2018, GE announced their intention to pursue an orderly separation from Baker Hughes over time. To that end, in November 2018, Baker Hughes completed a secondary public offering in which GE and its affiliates sold 101.2 million shares of Class A common stock of Baker Hughes. The offering included the exchange by GE and its affiliates of our common units (Units), together with the corresponding shares of Class B common stock of Baker Hughes, for Class A common stock of Baker Hughes. Also, in November 2018, we repurchased and canceled 65 million of our Units from GE and its affiliates for $1.5 billion. As a result of this secondary offering and repurchase, GE's interest in us was reduced from approximately 62.5% to approximately 50.4%.

In November 2018, we entered into a Master Agreement and a series of related ancillary agreements and binding term sheets with GE and Baker Hughes (collectively, the Master Agreement Framework, which were later negotiated into definitive agreements) designed to further solidify the commercial and technological collaboration between us and GE. The Master Agreement Framework focuses on areas where we work most closely with GE on developing leading technology and executing for customers. First, we defined the parameters for long-term collaboration and partnership with GE on critical rotating equipment technology. Second, for our digital software and technology business we agreed to maintain the status quo as the exclusive supplier of GE Digital oil and-gas applications, although this commercial arrangement was modified pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, discussed below, including by rendering the relationship with GE Digital to be nonexclusive with respect to digital offerings in the oil and gas space. Finally, we reached agreements on a number of other areas including our controls business, pension, taxes, and intercompany services. All agreements within the Master Agreement Framework were finalized by the first quarter of 2019.

In July 2019, we also entered into an Omnibus Agreement, a general framework agreement that addresses certain outstanding matters under existing long-term commercial agreements between us and GE. The Omnibus Agreement contains provisions regarding, among other things, (i) the repayment of certain outstanding amounts mutually owed by the parties, (ii) certain employee and assets transfers (including the allocation of costs and expenses associated therewith), and (iii) certain matters related to three international joint ventures. Modifications to the commercial arrangements between us and GE included, among other things, modification of the relationship between BHGE LLC and GE Digital to be nonexclusive with respect to digital offerings in the oil and gas space. 

In September 2019, Baker Hughes completed another secondary public offering in which GE and its affiliates sold 132.3 million shares of Class A common stock of Baker Hughes. The offering included the exchange by GE and its affiliates of our Units, together with the corresponding shares of Class B common stock of Baker Hughes, for Class A common stock of Baker Hughes. Also, in September 2019, we repurchased and canceled 11.9 million of our Units, from GE and its affiliates for $250 million. As a result of this secondary offering and repurchase, GE's interest in us was reduced to approximately 36.8%. As of December 31, 2019, GE's interest in us was 36.7% and Baker Hughes' interest in us was 63.3%. 

For a discussion of certain risks associated with the separation, including risks related to our business, financial condition and results of operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Risks Factors Related to the Separation from GE.” For further details on the Master Agreement Framework and Omnibus Agreement, see "Note 17. Related Party Disclosures" of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8 herein. 

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 1

OUR VISION

We are an energy technology company with a diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain. In 2019, we generated revenue of $23,838 million and conducted business in more than 120 countries. With the breadth of our portfolio, leading technology, and unique partnership models, we are positioned to deliver outcome-based solutions across the industry. By integrating health, safety & environment (HSE) into everything we do, we protect our people, our customers, and the environment. We believe in doing the right thing every time, and delivering the best quality and safest products, services, processes, solutions, and technologies in the industry.

The oil and gas macroeconomic environment continues to be dynamic, and the demand for more energy and the transition to new energy sources is accelerating. We believe the industry is going through a transformation that requires a change in how we work. Irrespective of commodity prices, our customers are focused on reducing both capital and operating expenditures. Our customers expect new models and solutions to deliver sustainable productivity improvements and leverage economies of scale, with a lower carbon footprint. That is why our strategy is focused on improving our core competitiveness and delivering higher-productivity solutions today, while positioning for the energy transition. Our strategy is based on three growth areas:

•Transforming our core through leading product companies: We are focused on delivering more efficient products and services, integrated offerings, and outcome-based solutions to improve total project economics.

•Lead with technology: We are expanding our digital and technology offerings to help facilitate better, safer, and more reliable operations for our customers, while improving our own operational and execution capabilities. 

•Lead the energy transition: We are positioning the Company as the leading energy technology company to enable the energy transition. We plan to grow across the gas value chain, and develop products and services to help the industry lower carbon emissions. 

We believe we have an important role to play in society as an industry leader and partner. In January 2019, we made a commitment to reduce CO2 equivalent (eq.) emissions from our operations by 50 percent by 2030, achieving net-zero CO2 eq. emissions by 2050. We are investing in our portfolio of advanced technologies to assist customers with reducing their carbon footprint.

Baker Hughes reported in its 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility report a 34% reduction in operating emissions since 2012 through a commitment to new technology and operational efficiencies. We will continue to employ a broad range of emissions reduction initiatives across manufacturing, supply chain, logistics, energy sourcing and generation. We have established a global additive manufacturing technology network with a mission to bring commercial-scale production closer to customers, reducing transportation impact and associated emissions.

We expect to benefit from the following:

•Scope and scale: We have global presence and a broad, diversified portfolio. Our products, services, and expertise serve the upstream, midstream/liquefied natural gas (LNG) and downstream sectors of the oil and gas industry, as well as broader chemical and industrial segments, matching energy leaders in many areas. We deliver through our four product companies (also referred to as operating segments): Oilfield Services; Oilfield Equipment; Turbomachinery & Process Solutions; and Digital Solutions as discussed below under "Products and Services," and each are among the top four providers in their respective segments.

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 2

•Technology: Our culture is built on a heritage of innovation and invention in research and development, with complementary capabilities. Technology remains a differentiator for us, and a key enabler to drive the efficiency and productivity gains our customers need. We also have a range of technologies that support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint. We remain committed to investing in our products and services to maintain our leadership position across our offerings, including $687 million research & development spend in 2019. 

•Digital capabilities: We expect to benefit from the emerging demand for artificial intelligence (AI) based solutions as part of our customers’ digital transformation initiatives. Launched in 2019, our partnership with C3.ai will enable us to deliver AI that is faster, easier, and more scalable to drive outcomes for our customers. We will deliver existing technology to oil and gas customers and collaborate on new AI applications specific for oil and gas outcomes. We will also apply these applications internally to improve operational efficiencies. We are also leveraging advanced manufacturing techniques to transform our supply chain and design new parts and components that ultimately will lower costs and operational carbon emissions.

•Energy transition solutions: We are positioned to support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint with a range of emissions-reduction products. This includes more efficient power generation and compression technology that reduces carbon emissions. We also have a range of inspection and sensor technology that can monitor and help reduce flaring and emissions. 

ORDERS AND REMAINING PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS

Remaining performance obligations (RPO), a defined term under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), are unfilled customer orders for products and product services excluding any purchase order that provides the customer with the ability to cancel or terminate without incurring a substantive penalty, even if the likelihood of cancellation is remote based on historical experience. For product services, an amount is included for the expected life of the contract.

We recognized orders of $27.0 billion, $23.9 billion and $17.2 billion in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the remaining performance obligations totaled $22.9 billion, $21.0 billion and $21.0 billion, respectively. 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We are an energy technology company that has a diverse portfolio of equipment and service capabilities that span the energy and industrial value chain. Our reportable segments, which are the same as our operating segments, are organized based on the nature of our markets and customers. We report our operating results through our four operating segments that consist of similar products and services within each segment as described below.

Oilfield Services

The Oilfield Services (OFS) segment provides products and services for onshore and offshore operations across the lifecycle of a well, ranging from drilling, evaluation, completion, production, and intervention. The segment includes product lines that design and manufacture products and provide services to help operators find, evaluate, drill, and produce hydrocarbons. 

Products and services include diamond and tri-cone drill bits, drilling services, including directional drilling technology, measurement while drilling and logging while drilling, wireline services, drilling and completions fluids, completions tools and systems, wellbore intervention tools and services, artificial lift systems, and oilfield and industrial chemicals. 

OFS’ core evaluation and drilling technologies provide greater understanding of the subsurface to enable smoother, faster drilling and precise wellbore placement, leading to improved recovery and project economics. With our broad completions portfolio, OFS can provide tailored well integrity solutions for all well types. Drawing from a wide range of chemical and artificial lift technologies, coupled with production optimization software, OFS can help lower the cost per barrel for the life of an asset. OFS also provides integrated well services to plan and execute projects ranging from well construction, intervention, and production services through well abandonment.

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 3

Our customers include the large integrated major and super-major oil and natural gas companies, U.S. and international independent oil and natural gas companies, and the national or state-owned oil companies as well as oilfield service companies. 

Oilfield Equipment

The Oilfield Equipment (OFE) segment provides a broad portfolio of mission critical products and services that serve as the last line of defense during drilling and over the life of a field. These products and services are required to facilitate the safe and reliable control and flow of hydrocarbons from the wellhead to the production facilities. The OFE portfolio has solutions for the subsea, offshore surface and onshore operating environments. OFE designs and manufactures subsea and surface drilling and production systems and provides a full range of services related to onshore and offshore drilling and production operations.

The OFE segment includes subsea and surface drilling equipment, subsea production systems (SPS), flexible pipe systems for subsea flowlines, risers and onshore pipes, surface and subsea wellheads, surface pressure control equipment, subsea well intervention solutions and related service solutions. The OFE drilling product line offers blowout preventers, control systems, marine drilling risers, wellhead connectors, diverters, and related services for floaters, jack-ups and land drilling rigs. OFE’s SPS portfolio includes subsea trees, control systems, manifolds, connection systems, wellheads, specialty connectors & pipes, installation and decommissioning solutions, and related services for Life of Field solutions and well intervention. OFE also provides advanced flexible pipe products including risers, flowlines, fluid transfer lines and subsea jumpers, for floating production facilities across a range of operating environments. In addition, OFE offers a full range of onshore wellhead products, flow equipment, valves, actuators, as well as related services. OFE also offers a range of comprehensive, worldwide services for installation, technical support, well access through subsea intervention systems, operating resources and tools, offshore products and brownfield asset integrity solutions.

OFE customers are oil and gas operators, drilling contractors and engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contractors seeking to undertake new subsea projects, mid-life upgrades and maintenance, well interventions and workover campaigns. OFE strives for a leadership position within the 20 Kpsi subsea drilling systems, large-bore gas fields, deepwater and ultra-deepwater oil and gas fields and fields with long tieback distances. Additionally, through Subsea Connect, OFE offers integrated solutions to drive outcomes for customers. 

Turbomachinery & Process Solutions

The Turbomachinery & Process Solutions (TPS) segment provides equipment and related services for mechanical-drive, compression and power-generation applications across the oil and gas industry and energy industry, the on-and-offshore, LNG, pipeline and gas storage, refining, petrochemical, distributed gas, flow and process control and industrial segments. TPS is a leader in designing, manufacturing, maintaining and upgrading rotating equipment across the entire oil and gas value chain.

The TPS segment includes drivers, driven equipment, flow control, and turnkey solutions. Drivers are comprised of aero-derivative gas turbines, heavy-duty gas turbines, small- to medium-sized industrial gas turbines, steam turbines, and hot gas and turbo expanders. TPS’ driven equipment consists of generators, reciprocating, centrifugal, zero emission and subsea compressors. TPS’ flow portfolio includes pumps, valves, regulators, control systems, and other flow and process control technologies. As part of its turnkey solutions, TPS offers power generation and gas compression modules, waste heat/energy/pressure recovery, energy storage, modularized small and large liquefaction plants, carbon capture, and storage/use facilities. TPS also offers genuine spare parts, system upgrades, conversion solutions, digital advanced services and turnkey solutions to refurbish, rejuvenate and, improve the output from a single machine up to an entire plant.

TPS’ products enable customers to increase upstream oil and gas production, liquefy natural gas, compress gas for transport via pipelines, generate electricity, store gas and energy, refine oil and gas and produce petrochemicals, while minimizing both operational and environmental risks in the most extreme service conditions and enhancing overall efficiency. TPS’ customers are upstream, midstream and downstream, onshore and offshore, and small to large scale. Midstream and downstream customers include LNG plants, pipelines, storage facilities, refineries, and a wide range of industrial and EPC companies. As a supplier of turbomachinery equipment and solutions, TPS uses technology to help customers reduce their environmental impact by making their operations more efficient and enhancing their productivity, reducing emissions through flaring, venting and 

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 4

fuel combustion and introducing new technologies that improve their ability to reduce unwanted fugitive emissions.

TPS’ value proposition is founded on its turbomachinery and flow control technology, a unique competence to integrate gas turbines and compressors in the most critical natural gas applications, best-in-class manufacturing and testing capabilities, reliable maintenance and service operations, and innovative real-time diagnostics and control systems, enabling condition-based maintenance and increasing overall productivity, availability, efficiency, and reliability for oil and gas assets. TPS differentiates itself from competitors with its expertise in technology and project management, local presence and partnerships, as well as the deep industry know-how of its teams to provide fully integrated equipment and services solutions with state-of-art technology from design and manufacture through to operations.

Digital Solutions

Digital Solutions combines sophisticated hardware technologies with enterprise-class software products and analytics to connect industrial assets, providing customers with the data, safety and security needed to reliably and efficiently improve operations. 

The DS segment includes condition monitoring, industrial controls, non-destructive technologies, measurement, sensing, and pipeline solutions. Condition monitoring technologies include the Bently Nevada® and System 1® brands, providing rack-based vibration monitoring equipment and sensors primarily for power generation and oil and gas operations. The DS Waygate Technologies product line includes non-destructive testing technology, software, and services, including industrial radiography, ultrasonic sensors, testing machines and gauges, NDT film, and remote visual inspection.

The DS Process and Pipeline Services product line (PPS) provides pre-commissioning and maintenance services to improve throughput and asset integrity for process facilities and pipelines while achieving the highest returns possible. In addition, the PPS product line provides inline inspection solutions to support pipeline integrity and includes nitrogen, bolting, torqueing and leak detection services, as well as the world’s largest fleet of air compressors to dry pipelines after hydrotesting. The DS Measurement and Sensing product line provides instrumentation to better detect and analyze pressure, flow, gas, and moisture conditions. The DS Control Solutions product line provides comprehensive, scalable industrial controls systems, safety systems (SIL), hardware, software cybersecurity solutions and services.

The DS segment helps companies monitor and optimize industrial assets while mitigating risk and boosting safety, by providing performance management, and condition and asset health monitoring. It also provides customers the technical capabilities to drive enterprise wide digital transformation of business processes and to focus on better production outcomes along the entire oil & gas value chain and adjacent industries, using sensors, services and inspections to connect industrial assets to the Industrial Internet. The DS software business is built to handle data at an industrial scale, giving customers the power to innovate, and make faster, more confident decisions to maximize performance. 

MARKETS AND COMPETITION

We sell to our customers through direct and indirect channels. Our primary sales channel is through our direct sales force, which has a strong regional focus with local teams close to the customer, who are able to draw support from centers of excellence in each of our major product lines. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in the current year.

Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets and the competitive environment varies by product line, as discussed below: 

Oilfield Services

Our OFS segment believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product and service quality, reliability and availability, health, safety and environmental standards, technical proficiency, and price. Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets and revenue and earnings are affected by changes in commodity prices, fluctuations in the level of drilling, workover and completion activity in major markets, general economic conditions, foreign currency exchange fluctuations and governmental regulations. 

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 5

While we may have contracts with customers that include multiple well projects and that may extend over a period of time ranging from two to four years, our services and products are generally provided on a well-by-well basis. Most contracts cover our pricing of the products and services, but do not necessarily establish an obligation to use our products and services. OFS segment competitors include Schlumberger, Halliburton, and Weatherford International. 

Oilfield Equipment 

Our OFE segment believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product and service quality, reliability and on time delivery, health, safety and environmental standards, technical proficiency, availability of spare parts, and price. Its strong track record of innovation enables OFE to enter into long-term, performance-based service agreements with our customers. In the SPS product line, the primary competitors of OFE include Schlumberger, TechnipFMC, Aker Solutions ASA, Proserv, and Dril-Quip Inc. In the flexible pipe product line, competitors include TechnipFMC, National Oilwell Varco (NOV), Airborne, and Magma. In the drilling product line, competitors include NOV and Schlumberger. In the surface pressure control product line, the primary competitors include Cactus Wellhead, TechnipFMC, and Schlumberger.

Turbomachinery & Process Solutions 

Our TPS segment believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product range (or power range measured in megawatts) coverage, efficiency, product reliability and availability, service capabilities, references, emissions, and price. Our primary equipment competitors include Siemens (Power and Gas business unit), Solar (a Caterpillar company), MAN Turbo, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and Elliot Ebara. In the valves and pumps product line, competitors include Emerson, Flowserve, Metso and Sulzer. Our aftermarket equipment product line competes with independent service providers such as Masaood John Brown, EthosEnergy, Sulzer, MTU, and Chromalloy.

Digital Solutions 

Our DS segment believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are superior product technology, service, quality, and reliability. Our DS segment competes across a wide range of industries, including oil & gas, power generation, aerospace, and light and heavy industrials. The products and services are sold in a diversified, fragmented arena with a broad range of competitors. Although no single company competes directly with DS across all its product lines, various companies compete in one or more products. Competitors include Emerson, Honeywell Process Solutions, Olympus, Schneider Electric, and Siemens.

CONTRACTS

We conduct our business under various types of contracts in the upstream, midstream, and downstream segments, including fixed-fee or turnkey contracts, transactional agreements for products and services, and long-term aftermarket service agreements.

We enjoy stable relationships with many of our customers based on long-term project contracts and master service agreements. Several of those contracts require us to commit to a fixed price based on the customer’s technical specifications with little or no legal relief available due to changes in circumstances, such as changes in local laws, or industry or geopolitical events. In some cases, failure to deliver products or perform services within contractual commitments may lead to liquidated damages claims. We seek to mitigate these exposures through close collaboration with our customers. 

We strive to negotiate the terms of our customer contracts consistent with what we consider to be industry best practices. Our customers typically indemnify us for certain claims arising from: the injury or death of their employees and often their other contractors; the loss of or damage to their facility and equipment, and often that of their other contractors; pollution originating from their equipment or facility; and all liabilities related to the well and subsurface operations, including loss or damage to the well or reservoir, loss of well control, fire, explosion, or any uncontrolled flow of oil or gas. Conversely, we typically indemnify our customers for certain claims arising from: the injury or death of our employees and sometimes that of our subcontractors; the loss of or damage to our equipment; and pollution originating from our equipment above the surface of the earth while under our control. Where the above indemnities do not apply or are not consistent with industry best practices, we typically provide a capped indemnity for damages caused to the customer by our negligence, and include an overall limitation of 

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 6

liability clause. It is also our general practice to include a limitation of liability for consequential loss, including loss of profits and loss of revenue, in all customer contracts.

Our indemnity structure may not protect us in every case. Certain U.S. states have enacted oil and natural gas specific anti-indemnity statutes that can void the allocation of liability agreed to in a contract. State law, laws in countries outside the U.S., public policy, or the negotiated terms of a customer contract may also limit indemnity obligations in the event of the gross negligence or willful misconduct. We sometimes contract with customers that are not the end user of our products. It is our practice to seek to obtain an indemnity from our customer for any end-user claims, but this is not always possible. Similarly, government agencies and other third parties, including in some cases other contractors of our customers, may make claims in respect of which we are not indemnified and for which responsibility is assessed proportionate to fault. Deviations from our standard contracting practices are examined through an established risk deviation process.

The Company maintains a commercial general liability insurance policy program that covers against certain operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims, as well as certain limited environmental pollution claims for damage to a third party or its property arising out of contact with pollution for which the Company is liable; however, clean up and well control costs are not covered by such program. All of the insurance policies purchased by the Company are subject to deductible and/or self-insured retention amounts for which we are responsible for payment, specific terms, conditions, limitations, and exclusions. There can be no assurance that the nature and amount of Company insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities related to our business.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

We engage in research and development activities directed primarily toward the development of new products, services, technology, and other solutions, as well as the improvement of existing products, services and the design of specialized products to meet specific customer needs. We continue to invest across all operating segments in products to enhance safety, develop capability, improve performance, and reduce costs aligned with our operational strategy. In OFS, we invested in a range of formation evaluation capabilities as well as drilling, completions, and production hardware. In OFE, the recent focus has been to expand capability into deeper water, longer offsets and at higher pressures as well as modular designs that allow for simpler and more integrated subsea systems as with our AptaraTM product line. Additionally, subsea power and processing is also an area in which we are investing, covering both pumping and compression. In TPS, we continue to invest in our latest generation of gas turbines for energy efficiency and reduced carbon footprint such as our LM9000TM and Nova LTTM products. DS continues to invest in advanced digital solutions designed to improve the efficiency, reliability and safety of oil & gas production operations. These systems integrate operational data and provide analytics from producing oil and gas facilities helping to prevent unplanned downtime and improve facility reliability. In addition, DS invests in a broad range of measurement and control solutions spanning multiple industries, including methane detection systems like LumenTM used for oil and gas operations, and additionally inspection technologies for consumer electronics. Our Enterprise Technology Operations expanded its investments in the fields of additive manufacturing, AI, edge computing, and broader data science capabilities. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our technology, brands and other intellectual property (IP) rights are important elements of our business. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as non-disclosure and employee invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Many patents and patent applications comprise the Baker Hughes portfolio and are owned by us. Other patents and patent applications applicable to our products and services are licensed to us by GE and, in some cases, third parties. We do not consider any individual patent to be material to our business operations.

In connection with the Master Agreement Framework, GE entered into an amended and restated IP cross-license agreement (the IP Cross-License Agreement) with BHGE LLC. GE agreed to perpetually license to BHGE LLC the right to use certain intellectual property owned or controlled by GE pursuant to the terms of the IP Cross-License Agreement. BHGE LLC in return, also agreed to perpetually license to GE the right to use certain intellectual property rights owned or controlled by BHGE LLC pursuant to the terms of the IP Cross-License Agreement. This IP Cross-License Agreement allows both parties to have continued and permanent rights to commercially utilize certain intellectual property of the other pursuant to the terms of the agreement. 

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 7

We follow a policy of seeking patent and trademark protection in numerous countries and regions throughout the world for products and methods that appear to have commercial significance. We believe that maintenance, protection and enforcement of our patents, trademarks, and related intellectual property rights is central to the conduct of our business, and aggressively pursue protection of our intellectual property rights against infringement, misappropriation or other violation worldwide as we deem appropriate to protect our business. Additionally, we consider the quality and timely delivery of our products, the service we provide to our customers, and the technical knowledge and skills of our personnel to be other important components of the portfolio of capabilities and assets supporting our ability to compete.

SEASONALITY

Our operations can be affected by seasonal weather, which can temporarily affect the delivery and performance of our products and services, and our customers' budgetary cycles. Examples of seasonal events that can impact our business are set forth below:

•The severity and duration of both the summer and the winter in North America can have a significant impact on activity levels. In Canada, the timing and duration of the spring thaw directly affects activity levels, which reach seasonal lows during the second quarter and build through the third and fourth quarters to a seasonal high in the first quarter.

•Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, may interrupt or curtail our coastal and offshore drilling, or our customers’ operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured.

•Severe weather during the winter months normally results in reduced activity levels in the North Sea and Russia generally in the first quarter and may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, in those areas and result in a loss of revenue.

•Scheduled repair and maintenance of offshore facilities in the North Sea can reduce activity in the second and third quarters.

•Many of our international oilfield customers increase orders for certain products and services in the fourth quarter.

•Our process & pipeline business in the DS segment typically experiences lower sales during the first and fourth quarters of the year due to the Northern Hemisphere winter.

•Our broader DS and TPS businesses typically experiences higher customer activity as a result of spending patterns in the second half of the year.

RAW MATERIALS

We purchase various raw materials and component parts for use in manufacturing our products and delivering our services. The principal raw materials we use include steel alloys, chromium, nickel, titanium, barite, beryllium, copper, lead, tungsten carbide, synthetic and natural diamonds, gels, sand and other proppants, printed circuit boards and other electronic components, and hydrocarbon-based chemical feed stocks. Raw materials that are essential to our business are normally readily available from multiple sources, but may be subject to price volatility. Market conditions can trigger constraints in the supply of certain raw materials, and we are always seeking ways to ensure the availability and manage the cost of raw materials. Our procurement department uses its size and buying power to enhance its access to key materials at competitive prices.

In addition to raw materials and component parts, we also use the products and services of metal fabricators, machine shops, foundries, forge shops, assembly operations, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, packagers, indirect material providers, and others in order to produce and deliver products to customers. These materials and services are generally available from multiple sources.

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 8

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 68,000 employees, of which the majority are outside the U.S. Approximately 10% of these employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements or similar-type labor arrangements.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

We are committed to the health and safety of people, protection of the environment and compliance with environmental laws, regulations and our policies. Our past and present operations include activities that are subject to extensive domestic (including U.S. federal, state and local) and international regulations with regard to air, land and water quality and other environmental matters. Regulations continue to evolve, and changes in standards of enforcement of existing regulations, as well as the enactment of new legislation, may require us and our customers to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities or to change or discontinue present methods of operation. Our environmental compliance expenditures and our capital costs for environmental control equipment may change accordingly.

We recognize that environmental challenges including climate change warrant meaningful action. In 2019, we announced our commitment to reduce our carbon equivalent emissions 50% by 2030 and achieve net zero by 2050. This goal encompasses emissions from our direct operations (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) as compared to our baseline year of 2012 and was set to align with the Paris Accord and the specific recommendations of the United Nations (UN) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5oC. We have proactively worked to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions over the last decade and continue efforts to reduce our overall environmental footprint by using materials wisely and preserving land, water and air quality. Our sustainability commitments include our formal participation in the UN Global Compact, which commenced in 2019 and requires annual communication of progress. This Compact requires commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and ten principles including a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, initiatives to promote a greater sense of environmental responsibility and the development of environmentally friendly technologies. 

While we seek to embed and verify sound environmental practices throughout our business, we are, and may in the future be, involved in voluntary remediation projects at current and former properties, typically related to historical operations. On rare occasions, our remediation activities are conducted as specified by a government agency-issued consent decree or agreed order. Remediation costs at these properties are accrued using currently available facts, existing environmental permits, technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. For sites where we are primarily responsible for the remediation, our cost estimates are developed based on internal evaluations and are not discounted. We record accruals when it is probable that we will be obligated to pay amounts for environmental site evaluation, remediation or related activities, and such amounts can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are recorded even if significant uncertainties exist over the ultimate cost of the remediation. Ongoing environmental compliance costs, such as obtaining environmental permits, installation and maintenance of pollution control equipment and waste disposal, are expensed as incurred.

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (known as "Superfund") imposes liability for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. Superfund liability is imposed without regard to fault, even if the waste disposal was in compliance with laws and regulations. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at various Superfund sites, and we accrue our share of the estimated remediation costs for the site. PRPs in Superfund actions have joint and several liability and may be required to pay more than their proportional share of such costs. 

In some cases, it is not possible to quantify our ultimate exposure because the projects are either in the investigative or early remediation stage, or superfund allocation information is not yet available. Based upon current information, we believe that our overall compliance with environmental regulations, including remediation obligations, environmental compliance costs and capital expenditures for environmental control equipment, will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position because we have either established adequate reserves or our compliance cost, based on available information, is not expected to be material to our consolidated and combined financial statements. Our total accrual for environmental remediation was $82 million and $84 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We continue to focus on reducing future environmental liabilities by maintaining appropriate Company standards and by improving our assurance programs.

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 9

AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION FOR SECURITY HOLDERS 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are made available free of charge on our Internet website at www.bakerhughes.com as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this annual report or any other filing we make with the SEC.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF BAKER HUGHES, A GE COMPANY, LLC

The following table shows, as of February 13, 2020, the name of each of our executive officers, together with his or her age and office presently or previously held. There are no family relationships among our executive officers.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

BHGE LLC 2019 FORM 10-K | 10

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS