Part I  

Item 1. Business  

Overview  

BlackRock, Inc. (together, with its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates, “BlackRock” or the “Company”) is a leading publicly traded investment management firm with $7.43 trillion of assets under management (“AUM”) at December 31, 2019. With approximately 16,200 employees in more than 30 countries who serve clients in over 100 countries across the globe, BlackRock provides a broad range of investment and technology services to institutional and retail clients worldwide. 

Our diverse platform of alpha-seeking active, index and cash management investment strategies across asset classes enables the Company to tailor investment outcomes and asset allocation solutions for clients. Product offerings include single- and multi-asset portfolios investing in equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market instruments. Products are offered directly and through intermediaries in a variety of vehicles, including open-end and closed-end mutual funds, iShares® exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”), separate accounts, collective investment trusts and other pooled investment vehicles. BlackRock also offers technology services, including the investment and risk management technology platform, Aladdin®, Aladdin Wealth, eFront, Cachematrix and FutureAdvisor, as well as advisory services and solutions to a broad base of institutional and wealth management clients. The Company is highly regulated and manages its clients’ assets as a fiduciary. We do not engage in proprietary trading activities that could conflict with the interests of our clients.  

BlackRock serves a diverse mix of institutional and retail clients across the globe. Clients include tax-exempt institutions, such as defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, charities, foundations and endowments; official institutions, such as central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals and other government entities; taxable institutions, including insurance companies, financial institutions, corporations and third-party fund sponsors, and retail investors.  

BlackRock maintains a significant global sales and marketing presence that is focused on establishing and maintaining retail and institutional investment management and technology service relationships by marketing its services to investors directly and through third-party distribution relationships, including financial professionals and pension consultants.  

BlackRock is an independent, publicly traded company, with no single majority shareholder and over two-thirds of its Board of Directors consisting of independent directors. At December 31, 2019, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (“PNC”) held 22.0% of BlackRock’s voting common stock and 22.4% of BlackRock’s capital stock, which includes outstanding common and nonvoting preferred stock.  

Management seeks to deliver value for stockholders over time by, among other things, capitalizing on BlackRock’s differentiated competitive position, including: 

•  

the Company’s focus on strong performance providing alpha for active products and limited or no tracking error for index products;  

•  

the Company’s global reach and commitment to best practices around the world, with approximately 50% of employees outside the United States serving clients locally and supporting local investment capabilities. Approximately 40% of total AUM is managed for clients domiciled outside the United States;  

•  

the Company’s breadth of investment strategies, including market-cap weighted index, factors, systematic active, traditional fundamental active, high conviction alpha and illiquid alternative product offerings, which enhance its ability to tailor single- and multi-asset investment solutions to address specific client needs; 

•  

the Company’s differentiated client relationships and fiduciary focus, which enable effective positioning toward changing client needs and macro trends including the secular shift to index investing and ETFs, a focus on income and retirement, increasing demand for sustainable investment strategies and barbelling using index, active and illiquid alternatives products; and  

•   

the Company’s longstanding commitment to innovation, technology services and the continued development of, and increased interest in, BlackRock technology products and solutions, including Aladdin, Aladdin Wealth, eFront, Cachematrix, and FutureAdvisor. This commitment is further extended by minority investments in distribution technologies including Scalable Capital, iCapital, Acorns and Envestnet. 

BlackRock operates in a global marketplace impacted by changing market dynamics and economic uncertainty, factors that can significantly affect earnings and stockholder returns in any given period.  

The Company’s ability to increase revenue, earnings and stockholder value over time is predicated on its ability to generate new business, including business in Aladdin and other technology products and services. New business efforts depend on BlackRock’s ability to achieve clients’ investment objectives, in a manner consistent with their risk preferences, to deliver excellent client service and to innovate in technology to serve clients’ evolving needs. All of these efforts require the commitment and contributions of BlackRock employees. Accordingly, the ability to attract, develop and retain talented professionals is critical to the Company’s long-term success.  

1 

Financial Highlights  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Net of net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (“NCI”) (redeemable and nonredeemable).  

(2)  

BlackRock reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”); however, management believes evaluating the Company’s ongoing operating results may be enhanced if investors have additional non-GAAP financial measures.  

See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-GAAP Financial Measures”, for further information on non-GAAP financial measures and for as adjusted items for 2019 and 2018.  

In 2016, a restructuring charge, primarily comprised of severance and accelerated amortization expense of previously granted compensation awards, has been excluded to provide more meaningful analysis of BlackRock’s ongoing operations and to ensure comparability among periods presented. In 2015, compensation expense associated with appreciation (depreciation) on investments related to certain BlackRock deferred compensation plans has been excluded as returns on investments set aside for these plans, which substantially offset this expense, are reported in nonoperating income (expense). In 2017, 2016 and 2015, the portion of compensation expense associated with certain long-term incentive plans (“LTIP”) funded, or to be funded, through share distributions to participants of BlackRock stock held by PNC has been excluded because it ultimately did not impact BlackRock’s book value. 

(3)  

Net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted exclude the after-tax impact of the items referred to above and exclude the effect on deferred income tax expense resulting from certain income tax matters. In 2017, $1.2 billion of net tax benefit related to The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was excluded from net income attributable to BlackRock, Inc., as adjusted, and diluted earnings per common share, as adjusted. 

(4)  

Results for 2017 and 2016 were recast to reflect the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Results for 2015 reflect accounting guidance prior to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. 

Assets Under Management  

The Company’s AUM by product type for the years 2015 through 2019 is presented below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Percentage represents CAGR over a five-year period (2014-2019).  

2 

Component changes in AUM by product type for the five years ended December 31, 2019 are presented below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Amounts include AUM acquired in the acquisition of certain assets of BlackRock Kelso Capital Advisors LLC (“BKCA”) in March 2015, AUM acquired from Infraestructura Institucional and FutureAdvisor in October 2015, AUM acquired in the BofA® Global Capital Management transaction in April 2016, AUM acquired in the acquisition of the equity infrastructure franchise of First Reserve (“First Reserve Transaction”) in June 2017, net AUM from the acquisitions of Tennenbaum Capital Partners in August 2018 (“TCP Transaction”) and the asset management business of Citibanamex in September 2018 (“Citibanamex Transaction”), AUM reclassifications and net dispositions related to the transfer of BlackRock’s UK Defined Contribution Administration and Platform business to Aegon N.V. in July 2018 (“Aegon Transaction”), and net AUM dispositions related to the sale of BlackRock’s minority interest in DSP BlackRock Investment Managers Pvt. Ltd. to the DSP Group in August 2018 (“DSP Transaction”). In addition, amounts include other reclassifications to conform to current period combined AUM policy and presentation. 

(2)  

Percentage represents CAGR over a five-year period (2014-2019). 

AUM represents the broad range of financial assets we manage for clients on a discretionary basis pursuant to investment management agreements that are expected to continue for at least 12 months. In general, reported AUM reflects the valuation methodology that corresponds to the basis used for determining revenue (for example, net asset value). Reported AUM does not include assets for which we provide risk management or other forms of nondiscretionary advice, or assets that we are retained to manage on a short-term, temporary basis.  

Investment management fees are typically earned as a percentage of AUM. We also earn performance fees on certain portfolios relative to an agreed-upon benchmark or return hurdle. On some products, we also may earn securities lending revenue. In addition, BlackRock offers its proprietary Aladdin investment system as well as risk management, outsourcing, advisory and other technology services, to institutional investors and wealth management intermediaries. Revenue for these services may be based on several criteria including value of positions, number of users or accomplishment of specific deliverables.  

At December 31, 2019, total AUM was $7.43 trillion, representing a CAGR of 10% over the last five years. AUM growth during the period was achieved through the combination of net market valuation gains, net inflows and acquisitions, including BKCA, Infraestructura Institucional and FutureAdvisor, which collectively added $2.2 billion of AUM in 2015, BofA Global Capital Management, which added $80.6 billion of AUM in 2016, the First Reserve Transaction, which added $3.3 billion of AUM in 2017 and the net AUM impact from the TCP Transaction, the Citibanamex Transaction, the Aegon Transaction and the DSP Transaction, which added $27.5 billion of AUM in 2018. Our AUM mix encompasses a broadly diversified product range, as described below.  

The Company considers the categorization of its AUM by client type, product type, investment style, and client region useful to understanding its business. The following discussion of the Company’s AUM will be organized as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3 

Client Type  

BlackRock serves a diverse mix of institutional and retail clients across the globe, with a regionally focused business model. BlackRock leverages the benefits of scale across global investment, risk and technology platforms while at the same time using local distribution presence to deliver solutions for clients. Furthermore, our structure facilitates strong teamwork globally across both functions and regions in order to enhance our ability to leverage best practices to serve our clients and continue to develop our talent.   

Clients include tax-exempt institutions, such as defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, charities, foundations and endowments; official institutions, such as central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals and other government entities; taxable institutions, including insurance companies, financial institutions, corporations and third-party fund sponsors, and retail investors. 

iShares ETFs are a growing component of both institutional and retail client portfolios. However, as iShares ETFs are traded on exchanges, complete transparency on the ultimate end-client is unavailable. Therefore, iShares ETFs are presented as a separate client type below, with investments in iShares ETFs by institutions and retail clients excluded from figures and discussions in their respective sections.  

AUM by investment style and client type at December 31, 2019 is presented below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Retail  

BlackRock serves retail investors globally through a wide array of vehicles across the investment spectrum, including separate accounts, open-end and closed-end funds, unit trusts and private investment funds. Retail investors are served principally through intermediaries, including broker-dealers, banks, trust companies, insurance companies and independent financial advisors. Technology solutions, digital distribution tools and a shift toward portfolio construction are increasing the number of financial advisors and end-retail clients using BlackRock products. Retail represented 10% of long-term AUM at December 31, 2019 and 31% of long-term base fees for 2019.  

iShares ETFs have a significant retail component but is shown separately below. With the exclusion of iShares ETFs, retail AUM is predominantly comprised of active mutual funds. Mutual funds totaled $565.1 billion, or 80%, of retail long-term AUM at year-end, with the remainder invested in private investment funds and separately managed accounts. 87% of retail long-term AUM is invested in active products. 

Component changes in retail long-term AUM for 2019 are presented below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The retail client base is diversified geographically, with 70% of long-term AUM managed for investors based in the Americas, 25% in EMEA and 5% in Asia-Pacific at year-end 2019.  

•   

US retail long-term net inflows of $23.4 billion were led by fixed income net inflows of $22.7 billion. Fixed income net inflows were diversified across exposures and products, with strong flows into municipal, total return, high yield and short duration bond offerings. Equity net inflows of $3.9 billion included the successful close of the $1.4 billion BlackRock Science & Technology Trust II, BlackRock’s largest closed-end fund launch in the last seven years. Alternatives net inflows of $2.7 billion were driven by flows into the BlackRock Global Event Driven fund. Multi-asset net outflows of $5.9 billion were primarily due to outflows from world allocation strategies. 

•  

International retail long-term net outflows of $7.6 billion resulted from net outflows from equity, multi-asset and fixed income, partially offset by alternatives net inflows. Alternatives net inflows of $1.8 billion were driven by flows into the BlackRock Global Event Driven fund. Equity net outflows of $4.5 billion were primarily due to outflows from European equities, as political and market uncertainty contributed to a risk-off environment in the region. Multi-asset net outflows of $3.4 billion were primarily due to outflows from world allocation strategies.  

4 

iShares ETFs 

iShares is the leading ETF provider in the world with $2.2 trillion of AUM at December 31, 2019 and was the top asset gatherer globally in 20191 with net inflows of $183.5 billion driving an organic growth rate of 11%. iShares fixed income net inflows of $112.4 billion were diversified across exposures and product lines, led by flows into Core, treasuries and mortgage-backed securities funds. iShares equity net inflows of $64.7 billion were driven by flows into Core funds and factor-based ETFs. iShares ETF multi-asset and alternative funds contributed a combined $6.4 billion of net inflows, primarily into commodities funds. iShares ETFs represented 33% of long-term AUM at December 31, 2019 and 41% of long-term base fees for 2019.  

Component changes in iShares ETFs AUM for 2019 are presented below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Amounts include commodity iShares ETFs.  

Our broad iShares ETF product range offers investors a precise, transparent and efficient way to gain exposure to a full range of asset classes and global markets that have been difficult for many investors to access, as well as the liquidity required to make adjustments to their exposures quickly and cost-efficiently.  

•   

US iShares ETF2 AUM ended 2019 at $1.7 trillion with $117.9 billion of net inflows driven by strong demand for a diverse range of fixed income products, Core funds and factor-based ETFs.  

•  

International iShares ETF2 AUM ended 2019 at $549.0 billion with net inflows of $65.6 billion led by fixed income and equity net inflows of $45.8 billion and $17.1 billion, respectively.  

1Source: BlackRock; Bloomberg 

2Regional iShares ETF amounts based on jurisdiction of product, not underlying client.  

Institutional  

BlackRock serves institutional investors on six continents in sub-categories including: pensions, endowments and foundations, official institutions, and financial institutions; institutional AUM is diversified across product and region.  

Component changes in institutional long-term AUM for 2019 are presented below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Institutional active AUM ended 2019 at $1.3 trillion, reflecting $99.5 billion of net inflows, positive across all asset classes. Fixed income net inflows of $55.0 billion included two sizable client wins in the second quarter of 2019. Multi-asset strategies saw continued growth, with net inflows of $28.8 billion reflecting ongoing demand for solutions offerings and the LifePath® target-date suite.  

Alternatives net inflows of $13.8 billion were led by inflows into infrastructure, private equity and real estate. Excluding return of capital and investment of $5.1 billion, alternatives net inflows were $18.9 billion. In addition, 2019 was another strong fundraising year for illiquid alternatives, and at year-end 2019 we had approximately $24 billion of committed capital to deploy for institutional clients. 

In total, Institutional active represented 19% of long-term AUM and 19% of long-term base fees. 

Institutional index AUM totaled $2.6 trillion at December 31, 2019, reflecting $36.9 billion of net inflows. Fixed income net inflows of $75.0 billion were driven by demand for liability-driven investment solutions. Equity net outflows of $37.6 billion resulted from client de-risking, re-allocating, re-balancing and seeking liquidity in a more uncertain market environment. Institutional index represented 38% of long-term AUM at December 31, 2019 and accounted for 9% of long-term base fees for 2019.  

BlackRock’s institutional franchise generated 5% long-term organic base fee growth in 2019 reflecting strength in higher-fee illiquid alternatives, multi-asset solutions and liability-driven investment strategies. 

5 

The Company’s institutional clients consist of the following:  

•  

Pensions, Foundations and Endowments. BlackRock is among the world’s largest managers of pension plan assets with $2.6 trillion, or 67%, of long-term institutional AUM managed for defined benefit, defined contribution and other pension plans for corporations, governments and unions at December 31, 2019. The market landscape continues to shift from defined benefit to defined contribution, driving strong flows in our defined contribution channel, which had $16.7 billion of long-term net inflows for the year, driven by continued demand for our LifePath target-date suite. Defined contribution represented $1.1 trillion of total pension AUM, and we remain well positioned to capitalize on the on-going evolution of the defined contribution market and demand for outcome-oriented investments. An additional $78.7 billion, or 2%, of long-term institutional AUM was managed for other tax-exempt investors, including charities, foundations and endowments.  

•   

Official Institutions. BlackRock managed $234.4 billion, or 6%, of long-term institutional AUM for official institutions, including central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals, multilateral entities and government ministries and agencies at year-end 2019. These clients often require specialized investment advice, the use of customized benchmarks and training support.  

•  

Financial and Other Institutions. BlackRock is a top independent manager of assets for insurance companies, which accounted for $380.0 billion, or 10%, of institutional long-term AUM at year-end 2019. Assets managed for other taxable institutions, including corporations, banks and third-party fund sponsors for which we provide sub-advisory services, totaled $605.0 billion, or 15%, of long-term institutional AUM at year-end.  

Client Type and Product Type 

Component changes in AUM by product type and investment style for 2019 are presented below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Long-term product offerings include alpha-seeking active and index strategies. Our alpha-seeking active strategies seek to earn attractive returns in excess of a market benchmark or performance hurdle while maintaining an appropriate risk profile and leverage fundamental research and quantitative models to drive portfolio construction. In contrast, index strategies seek to closely track the returns of a corresponding index, generally by investing in substantially the same underlying securities within the index or in a subset of those securities selected to approximate a similar risk and return profile of the index. Index strategies include both our non-ETF index products and iShares ETFs.  

Although many clients use both alpha-seeking active and index strategies, the application of these strategies may differ. For example, clients may use index products to gain exposure to a market or asset class or may use a combination of index strategies to target active returns. In addition, institutional non-ETF index assignments tend to be very large (multi-billion dollars) and typically reflect low fee rates. Net flows in institutional index products generally have a small impact on BlackRock’s revenues and earnings.  

Equity  

Year-end 2019 equity AUM totaled $3.8 trillion, reflecting net inflows of $28.4 billion. Net inflows included $64.7 billion into iShares ETFs, driven by net inflows into Core funds and factor-based ETFs, partially offset by non-ETF index and active net outflows of $33.4 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. 

BlackRock’s effective fee rates fluctuate due to changes in AUM mix. Approximately half of BlackRock’s equity AUM is tied to international markets, including emerging markets, which tend to have higher fee rates than US equity strategies. Accordingly, fluctuations in international  

6 

equity markets, which may not consistently move in tandem with US markets, have a greater impact on BlackRock’s equity revenues and effective fee rate.  

Fixed Income  

Fixed income AUM ended 2019 at $2.3 trillion, reflecting net inflows of $263.6 billion. iShares ETFs net inflows of $112.3 billion were led by flows into Core, treasuries and mortgage-backed securities funds. Non-ETF index net inflows of $76.3 billion were driven by demand for liability-driven investment solutions. Active net inflows of $75.0 billion included two sizable institutional client wins in the second quarter of 2019, in addition to strong flows in municipal, total return, high yield and short duration bond offerings. 

Multi-Asset  

BlackRock’s multi-asset team manages a variety of balanced funds and bespoke mandates for a diversified client base that leverages our broad investment expertise in global equities, bonds, currencies and commodities, and our extensive risk management capabilities. Investment solutions might include a combination of long-only portfolios and alternative investments as well as tactical asset allocation overlays.  

Component changes in multi-asset AUM for 2019 are presented below. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

FutureAdvisor amounts do not include AUM held in iShares ETFs. 

Multi-asset net inflows reflected ongoing institutional demand for our solutions-based advice with $28.1 billion of net inflows coming from institutional clients. Defined contribution plans of institutional clients remained a significant driver of flows and contributed $18.9 billion to institutional multi-asset net inflows in 2019, primarily into target date and target risk product offerings. Retail net outflows of $9.3 billion were primarily due to outflows from world allocation strategies.  

The Company’s multi-asset strategies include the following:  

•   

Asset allocation and balanced products represented 33% of multi-asset AUM at year-end. These strategies combine equity, fixed income and alternative components for investors seeking a tailored solution relative to a specific benchmark and within a risk budget. In certain cases, these strategies seek to minimize downside risk through diversification, derivatives strategies and tactical asset allocation decisions. Flagship products in this category include our Global Allocation and Multi-Asset Income fund families.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

•   

Fiduciary management services are complex mandates in which pension plan sponsors or endowments and foundations retain BlackRock to assume responsibility for some or all aspects of investment management, often with BlackRock acting as outsourced chief investment officer (“OCIO”). These customized services require strong partnership with the clients’ investment staff and trustees in order to tailor investment strategies to meet client-specific risk budgets and return objectives. In 2019, BlackRock saw $9.4 billion of net inflows, or 12% organic growth, in fiduciary mandates. 

•   

FutureAdvisor is a digital wealth management platform that provides financial institutions with technology-enabled investment advisory capabilities to manage their clients’ investments. As consumers increasingly engage with technology to invest, BlackRock and FutureAdvisor are positioned to empower distribution partners to better serve their clients by combining FutureAdvisor’s technology-enabled advice with BlackRock’s multi-asset investment capabilities, proprietary technology and risk analytics. FutureAdvisor AUM does not include underlying iShares ETF investments. 

Alternatives  

BlackRock alternatives focus on sourcing and managing high-alpha investments with lower correlation to public markets and developing a holistic approach to address client needs in alternatives investing. Our alternatives products fall into three main categories — 1) illiquid alternatives, 2) liquid alternatives, and 3) currency and commodities. Illiquid alternatives include offerings in alternative solutions, private equity, opportunistic and credit, real estate and infrastructure. Liquid alternatives include offerings in direct hedge funds and hedge fund solutions (funds of funds). 

In 2019, alternatives generated $24.8 billion of net inflows, or $30.8 billion excluding return of capital/investment of $6.0 billion. The largest contributors to return of capital/investment were private equity solutions, opportunistic and credit strategies, real estate and infrastructure. Net inflows were driven by infrastructure, direct hedge funds, real estate, and private equity and opportunistic strategies. At year-end, we had approximately $24 billion of non-fee paying, unfunded, uninvested commitments, which are expected to be deployed in future years; these commitments are not included in AUM or flows until they are fee-paying. 

We believe that as alternatives become more conventional and investors adapt their asset allocation strategies, investors will further increase their use of alternative investments to complement core holdings. Our highly diversified alternatives franchise is well positioned to meet growing demand from both institutional and retail investors.  

7 

Component changes in alternatives AUM for 2019 are presented in the table below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Return of capital/investment is included in outflows.  

(2)  

Amount represents client assets that are uninvested commitments, which are currently non-fee paying and are not included in AUM. These commitments are expected to generate fees and will be counted in AUM and flows as the capital is deployed over time. 

Illiquid Alternatives 

The Company’s illiquid alternatives strategies include the following: 

• Alternative Solutions represents highly customized portfolios of alternative investments. In 2019, alternative solutions portfolios had $0.3 billion of net inflows. 

•  

Private Equity and Opportunistic included $14.4 billion in private equity solutions, $11.1 billion in opportunistic and credit offerings, and $2.4 billion in Long Term Private Capital (“LTPC”). LTPC was launched in 2019, and is a perpetual, direct private equity fund designed to create value for the long-term, limit re-investment risk and operate with lower volatility than comparable vehicles. Net inflows of $5.9 billion into private equity and opportunistic strategies included $2.4 billion of net inflows into both LTPC and opportunistic and credit offerings, and $1.1 billion of net inflows into private equity solutions. 

•  

Real Assets, which includes infrastructure and real estate, totaled $43.5 billion, reflecting net inflows of $7.9 billion, led by infrastructure deployments. 

Liquid Alternatives 

The Company’s liquid alternatives products’ net inflows of $4.0 billion were due to net inflows of $4.3 billion from direct hedge funds, partially offset by $0.3 billion of net outflows from hedge fund solutions. Direct hedge fund AUM includes a variety of single- and multi-strategy offerings.  

Currency and Commodities 

The Company’s currency and commodities products include a range of active and index products. 

Currency and commodities products had $6.8 billion of net inflows, primarily driven by iShares ETFs. iShares ETFs commodities products represented $36.1 billion of AUM and are not eligible for performance fees. 

Cash Management  

Cash management AUM totaled $545.9 billion at December 31, 2019, reflecting $93.1 billion of net inflows. Cash management products include taxable and tax-exempt money market funds, short term investment funds and customized separate accounts. Portfolios are denominated in US dollars, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars, Euros, Swiss Francs, New Taiwan Dollars or British pounds. Strong growth in cash management reflects BlackRock’s success in leveraging scale for clients and delivering innovative digital distribution and risk management solutions. 

8 

Client Region  

Our footprints in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions reflect strong relationships with intermediaries and an established ability to deliver our global investment expertise in funds and other products tailored to local regulations and requirements.  

AUM by product type and client region at December 31, 2019 is presented below.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Component changes in AUM by client region for 2019 are presented below. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

2018 AUM reflects the reclassification of $16.0 billion of aggregate AUM in the Iberia region (primarily Spain) from the Americas to EMEA. 

Americas  

Net inflows of $280.1 billion were positive across all asset classes, with net inflows into fixed income, cash, equity, multi-asset and alternatives of $168.0 billion, $62.4 billion, $21.1 billion, $15.2 and $13.4 billion, respectively. During the year, we served clients through offices in 32 states in the United States as well as Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile and Colombia.  

EMEA  

EMEA net inflows of $122.8 billion reflected net inflows into fixed income, cash, equity, alternatives and multi-asset of $64.7 billion, $29.4 billion, $15.9 billion, $9.3 and $3.5 billion, respectively. Our offerings include fund families in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Dublin and iShares ETFs listed on stock exchanges throughout Europe, as well as separate accounts and pooled investment products.  

Asia-Pacific  

Asia-Pacific net inflows of $25.9 billion were primarily due to fixed income net inflows of $30.9 billion, partially offset by equity net outflows of $8.6 billion. Clients in the Asia-Pacific region are served through offices in Japan, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Korea, China, and India.  

Investment Performance  

Investment performance across active and index products as of December 31, 2019 was as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Performance Notes. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Except as specified, the performance information shown is as of December 31, 2019 and is based on preliminary data available at that time. The performance data shown reflects information for all actively and passively managed equity and fixed income accounts, including US registered investment companies, European-domiciled retail funds and separate accounts for which performance data is available, including performance data for high net worth accounts available as of November 30, 2019. The performance data does not include accounts terminated prior to December 31, 2019 and accounts for which data has not yet been verified. If such accounts had been included, the performance data provided may have substantially differed from that shown.  

Performance comparisons shown are gross-of-fees for institutional and high net worth separate accounts, and net-of-fees for retail funds. The performance tracking shown for index accounts is based on gross-of-fees performance and includes all institutional accounts and all iShares funds globally using an index strategy. AUM information is based on AUM available as of December 31, 2019 for each account or fund in the asset class shown without adjustment for overlapping management of the same account or fund. Fund performance reflects the reinvestment of dividends and distributions.  

Performance shown is derived from applicable benchmarks or peer median information, as selected by BlackRock, Inc. Peer medians are based in part on data either from Lipper, Inc. or Morningstar, Inc. for each included product.  

9 

TECHNOLOGY SERVICES  

BlackRock offers investment management technology systems, risk management services, wealth management and digital distribution tools on a fee basis. Aladdin is our proprietary technology platform, which serves as the investment and risk management system for both BlackRock and a growing number of institutional investors around the world. BlackRock offers risk reporting capabilities via the Aladdin Risk offering, as well as investment accounting capabilities. Aladdin Provider is a tool used by BlackRock’s custodial partners, connecting them to the platform to add operational efficiency. BlackRock also offers a number of wealth management technology tools offering digital advice, portfolio construction capabilities and risk analytics for retail distributors. These tools include Aladdin Wealth, which provides wealth management firms and their financial professionals with institutional-quality business management, portfolio construction, modeling and risk analytics capabilities, FutureAdvisor, a digital wealth management platform that provides financial institutions with technology-enabled investment advisory capabilities to manage their clients’ investments, and Cachematrix, a leading provider of financial technology which simplifies the cash management process for banks and their corporate clients in a streamlined, open-architecture platform. In 2019, BlackRock completed the acquisition of eFront, a leading end-to-end alternative investment management software and solutions provider. eFront will continue to be offered on a standalone basis, and, in combination with Aladdin, will provide clients with an ability to manage portfolios and risk across public and private asset classes on a single platform. 

Technology services revenue of $974 million was up 24% year-over-year, reflecting the impact of the eFront acquisition and continued growth in Aladdin. Aladdin, which represented the majority of technology services revenue for the year, continues to benefit from trends favoring global investment platform consolidation and multi-asset risk solutions. Aladdin assignments are typically long-term contracts that provide recurring revenue. 

At year-end, BlackRock technology services clients included banks, insurance companies, official institutions, pension funds, asset managers, asset servicers, retail distributors and other investors across North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia. 

In addition, BlackRock has made minority investments in the digital distribution companies Scalable Capital and iCapital, Acorns, a micro-investing tool, and Envestnet, a leading independent provider of technology-enabled, web-based investment solutions and services to financial advisors. BlackRock records its share of income related to minority investments accounted for under the equity method in other revenue. BlackRock records gains and losses related to changes in value of other minority investments in nonoperating income (expense). 

Securities Lending  

Securities lending is managed by a dedicated team, supported by quantitative analysis, proprietary technology and disciplined risk management. BlackRock receives both cash (primarily for US domiciled portfolios) and noncash collateral under securities lending arrangements. The cash management team invests the cash we receive as collateral for securities on loan in other portfolios. Fees for securities lending for US domiciled portfolios can be structured as a share of earnings, or as a management fee based on a percentage of the value of the cash collateral or both. The value of the securities on loan and the revenue earned are captured in the corresponding asset class being managed. The value of the collateral is not included in AUM.  

Outstanding loan balances ended the year at approximately $290 billion, up from $267 billion at year-end 2018. On average, relative to 2018, intrinsic lending spreads were slightly lower, while average cash reinvestment rates remained roughly flat. However, continued asset gathering in lending products resulted in increased balances compared to 2018. 

BlackRock employs a conservative investment style for cash and securities lending collateral that emphasizes quality, liquidity and interest rate risk management. Disciplined risk management, including a rigorous credit surveillance process, is an integral part of the investment process. BlackRock’s Cash Management Credit Committee has established risk limits, such as aggregate issuer exposure limits and maturity limits, across many of the products BlackRock manages, including over all of its cash management products. In the ordinary course of our business, there may be instances when a portfolio may exceed an internal risk limit or when an internal risk limit may be changed. No such instances, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to the Company. To the extent that daily evaluation and reporting of the profile of the portfolios identify that a limit has been exceeded, the relevant portfolio will be adjusted. To the extent a portfolio manager would like to obtain a temporary waiver of a risk limit, the portfolio manager must obtain approval from the credit research team, which is independent from the cash management portfolio managers. While a risk limit may be waived temporarily, such waivers are infrequent.  

Risk & Quantitative Analysis  

Across all asset classes, in addition to the efforts of the portfolio management teams, the Risk & Quantitative Analysis (“RQA”) group at BlackRock draws on extensive analytical systems and proprietary and third-party data to identify, measure and manage a wide range of risks. RQA provides risk management advice and independent risk oversight of the investment management processes, identifies and helps manage counterparty and enterprise risks, coordinates standards for firm wide investment performance measurement and determines risk management-related analytical and information requirements. Where appropriate, RQA will work with portfolio managers and developers to facilitate the development or improvement of risk models and analytics.  

COMPETITION  

BlackRock competes with investment management firms, mutual fund complexes, insurance companies, banks, brokerage firms and other financial institutions that offer products that are similar to, or alternatives to, those offered by BlackRock. In order to grow its business, BlackRock must be able to compete effectively for AUM. Key competitive factors include investment performance track records, the efficient delivery of beta for index products, investment style and discipline, price, client service and brand name recognition. Historically, the Company has competed principally on the basis of its long-term investment performance track record, its investment process, its risk management and analytic capabilities and the quality of its client service.  

10 

Employees  

At December 31, 2019, BlackRock had a total of approximately 16,200 employees, including approximately 8,600 located in offices outside the United States.  

REGULATION 

Virtually all aspects of BlackRock’s business are subject to various laws and regulations around the world, some of which are summarized below. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investment advisory clients, investors in registered and unregistered investment companies, and trust and other fiduciary clients of BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, N.A. (“BTC”). Under these laws and regulations, agencies that regulate investment advisers, investment funds and trust banks and other individuals and entities have broad administrative powers, including the power to limit, restrict or prohibit the regulated entity or person from carrying on business if it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions for significant compliance failures include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain lines of business for specified periods of time, revocation of investment adviser and other registrations or bank charters, censures and fines both for individuals and BlackRock.  

The rules governing the regulation of financial institutions and their holding companies and subsidiaries are very detailed and technical. Accordingly, the discussion below is general in nature, does not purport to be complete and is current only as of the date of this report.  

GLOBAL REGULATORY REFORM  

BlackRock’s business may be impacted by numerous regulatory reform initiatives occurring around the world. Any such initiative, or any new laws or regulations or changes to, or in the enforcement of, existing laws or regulations, could materially and adversely impact the scope or profitability of BlackRock’s business activities, lead to business disruptions, require BlackRock to alter its business or operating activities and expose BlackRock to additional costs (including compliance and legal costs) as well as reputational harm. BlackRock’s profitability also could be materially and adversely affected by modification of the rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing banking, taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.  

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act  

In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) was signed into law in the United States. Dodd-Frank is expansive in scope and requires the adoption of extensive regulations and numerous regulatory decisions, many of which have been adopted. BlackRock has implemented a conformance program to address certain regulations adopted under Dodd-Frank, as well as financial reforms that have been introduced as part of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC”) investment company modernization initiatives. The cost of these conformance activities has been substantially absorbed by BlackRock; however, as certain limited aspects of Dodd-Frank and other rules are still being adopted, it is not yet possible to predict the ultimate effects that any implementation of these rules and regulations will have upon BlackRock’s business, financial condition, and operating activities. 

Systemically Important Financial Institution (“SIFI”) Review  

The Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) has the authority to designate nonbank financial institutions as SIFIs in the United States. In July 2014, the FSOC pivoted from its previous entity-specific approach to designation and indicated that it would focus on a products and activities-based approach to designation in connection with addressing potential risks in the financial system related to asset management. In December 2019, the FSOC re-affirmed this approach when it voted to change its methodology for assessing financial stability to a products and activities-based approach. This reduces the risk of entity-level designation, however the FSOC retains the authority to designate an entity if an activities-based approach does not adequately address potential risks. In the event that BlackRock is designated as a SIFI under Dodd-Frank, it could become subject to enhanced regulatory requirements and direct supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the “Federal Reserve”). 

Taxation  

BlackRock’s businesses may be directly or indirectly affected by tax legislation and regulation, or the modification of existing tax laws, by US or non-US tax authorities. In the US, legislation has been proposed in the House and Senate to enact a financial transaction tax (“FTT”) on stocks, bonds and a broad range of financial instruments and derivative transactions. In the European Union (“EU”), certain Member States have also enacted similar FTTs and the European Commission has proposed legislation to harmonize these taxes and provide for the adoption of EU-level legislation applicable to some (but not all) EU Member States. If enacted as proposed, FTTs could have an adverse effect on BlackRock’s financial results and clients’ performance results.  

The application of tax regulations involves numerous uncertainties and, in the normal course of business, US and non-US tax authorities may review and challenge tax positions adopted by BlackRock. These challenges may result in adjustments to, or impact the timing or amount of, taxable income, deductions or other tax allocations, which may adversely affect BlackRock’s effective tax rate and overall financial condition. Similarly, the Company manages assets in products and accounts that have investment objectives which may conform to tax positions adopted by BlackRock or to specific tax rules. To the extent there are changes in tax law or policy, or regulatory challenges to tax positions adopted by BlackRock, the value or attractiveness of such investments may be diminished and BlackRock may suffer financial or reputational harm. 

Regulation of Swaps and Derivatives  

The SEC, Federal Reserve, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) each continue to review practices and regulations relating to the use of futures, swaps and other derivatives. Such reviews could result in regulations that restrict or limit the use of such products by funds or accounts. If adopted, these limitations could require BlackRock to change certain business practices or implement new compliance processes, which could result in additional costs and/or restrictions.  

11 

In November 2019, the SEC proposed a rule designed to enhance the regulation of the use of derivatives by registered investment companies, including mutual funds (other than money market funds), ETFs and closed-end funds, as well as business development companies. The proposed rule would permit such funds to use derivatives, such as forwards, futures, swaps and written options, that create future payment obligations, provided that the funds comply with certain conditions including adopting a derivatives risk management program and complying with a limit on the amount of leverage-related risk that a fund may obtain, based on value-at-risk. If adopted without change, the proposed rule would increase BlackRock’s disclosure and compliance obligations and may impact certain funds’ usage of derivatives and investment strategy. 

Jurisdictions outside the US in which BlackRock operates have adopted and implemented, or are in the process of considering, adopting or implementing, more pervasive regulation of many elements of the financial services industry, which could further impact BlackRock and the broader markets. For example, various global rules and regulations applicable to the use of financial products by funds, accounts and counterparties that have been adopted or proposed will require BlackRock to build and implement new compliance monitoring procedures to address the enhanced level of oversight to which it and its clients will be subject. These rules impose requirements such as mandatory central clearing of certain swaps transactions, requiring execution of certain swaps transactions on or through registered electronic trading venues (as opposed to over the phone or other execution methods), reporting transactions to central data repositories, mandating certain documentation standards, requiring the posting and collection of initial and/or variation margin for bilateral swap transactions and subjecting certain types of listed and/or over-the-counter transactions to position limit or position reporting requirements. 

In the US, certain interest rate swaps and certain index credit default swaps are subject to Dodd-Frank central clearing and electronic trading venue execution requirements, with additional products and asset classes potentially becoming subject to these requirements in the future. In the EU, central clearing and trading venue requirements for certain swap transactions have become effective for certain types of BlackRock funds and accounts. On March 1, 2017, most derivatives transactions that are not centrally cleared, including non-deliverable foreign exchange forward transactions and currency option transactions, became subject to requirements in the US, EU and numerous other jurisdictions to post or collect mark-to-market margin payments. For certain BlackRock funds and accounts, initial margin requirements may apply in the future in addition to such mark-to-market margin payments. These rules and regulations have the potential to increase the complexity and cost of trading non-cleared derivatives for BlackRock's clients, and may produce regulatory inconsistencies in global derivatives trading rules and increase BlackRock’s operational and legal risks. 

Regulation of Exchange-Traded Funds  

As part of a focus on financial stability issues and due to the significant growth of this product class over the last few years, regulators globally are examining the implications of an increased presence of ETFs in the markets, including those related to transparency, liquidity and structural resiliency. BlackRock and other sponsors of ETFs are working with market participants and regulators to address certain of these issues but there can be no assurance that structural or regulatory reforms will be implemented in a manner favorable to BlackRock, or at all. Depending on the outcome of this renewed regulatory analysis, or any associated structural reforms, ETF products may become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny or restrictions, which may require BlackRock to incur additional compliance and reporting expenses and adversely affect the Company’s business. 

In addition, in September 2019, the SEC adopted rule 6c-11 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) known as the “ETF Rule”. The ETF Rule will allow ETFs that satisfy certain conditions to operate without first obtaining individual exemptive relief from the SEC. The ETF Rule is designed to create a clear and consistent regulatory framework for most ETFs operating today and will impact all BlackRock ETFs registered under the Investment Company Act (including iShares ETFs). The ETF Rule and related form amendments became effective in December 2019. The form amendments will have a transition period of one year following the effective date. In addition, the ETF Rule rescinds, one year after its effective date, the existing exemptive relief for all eligible ETFs (including iShares ETFs). 

Volcker Rule  

Provisions of Dodd-Frank referred to as the “Volcker Rule” created a new section of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “Bank Holding Company Act”) that places limitations on the ability of banks and their subsidiaries to engage in proprietary trading and to invest in and transact with certain private investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds and funds of funds (collectively “covered funds”). The Bank Holding Company Act by its terms does not currently apply to BlackRock. The Federal Reserve has taken the position that PNC’s ownership interest in BlackRock, which is approximately 22%, in combination with certain other factors, causes BlackRock to be treated as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC for the purpose of the Bank Holding Company Act and that BlackRock is subject to banking regulation. Based on this interpretation of the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Reserve could initiate a process to formally determine that PNC controls BlackRock under the terms of the Bank Holding Company Act. Any such determination, if successful, would subject BlackRock to current and future regulatory requirements under the Bank Holding Company Act, including the Volcker Rule. Conformance with the Volcker Rule may require BlackRock to sell certain seed and co-investments that it holds in its covered funds, which may occur at a discount to existing carrying value depending on market conditions. 

Standards of Conduct Rulemaking 

In June 2019, the SEC adopted a package of rulemakings and interpretations addressing investment adviser and broker-dealer standards of conduct. The package includes new rules requiring registered advisers and registered broker-dealers to provide a relationship summary to retail investors, a new rule establishing a standard of conduct for broker-dealers when making recommendations to retail customers and two new interpretations under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the “Advisers Act”). The rulemakings and interpretations could increase BlackRock’s disclosure obligations, impact distribution arrangements between BlackRock and its distribution partners, create compliance and operational challenges for BlackRock’s distribution partners and limit BlackRock’s ability to provide certain other services to its clients. The Department of Labor (“DoL”) has also indicated it intends to propose a standards of conduct rule in 2020. 

12 

SEC Guidance on Proxy Voting Responsibilities of Investment Advisors  

In August 2019, the SEC published guidance to assist investment advisers with their proxy voting responsibilities under the Advisers Act. The guidance confirmed that investment advisers’ fiduciary duties of care and loyalty to their clients apply to proxy voting and encouraged advisors with voting authority to review their policies and procedures in detail and consider whether more analysis may be required under certain circumstances, including when a proxy advisory firm’s services are retained. This guidance could impact voting arrangements between BlackRock and its clients, and lead to additional compliance, operational and disclosure obligations for BlackRock.  

Financial Crimes Enforcement Network Proposed Rulemaking for Registered Investment Advisers 

In 2015, the Financial Crime Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“Proposed Rule”) that would extend to a number of BlackRock’s subsidiaries, which are registered or required to be registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Advisers Act, the requirement to establish written risk-based anti-money laundering programs and report suspicious activity to FinCEN under the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 (the “Bank Secrecy Act”). The Proposed Rule would include investment advisers within the Bank Secrecy Act’s definition of “financial institutions”, which would require them to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act reporting and recordkeeping requirements. If adopted in its current form, the Proposed Rule would expose BlackRock to additional compliance costs. 

Securities and Exchange Commission Rulemakings for US Registered Funds and Investment Advisers  

BlackRock’s business may also be impacted by SEC regulatory initiatives. The SEC and its staff are engaged in various initiatives and reviews that seek to improve and modernize the regulatory structure governing the asset management industry, and registered investment companies in particular. These efforts relate to, among other things, embedded leverage through the use of derivatives and other trading practices, cybersecurity, liquidity, enhanced regulatory and public reporting requirements and the evaluation of systemic risks. The SEC has adopted rules that include (i) new monthly and annual reporting requirements for certain US registered funds; (ii) enhanced reporting regimes for investment advisers; and (iii) implementing liquidity risk management programs for ETFs and open-end funds, other than money market funds. These rules increase, and any additional rules or regulatory initiatives resulting from the SEC's efforts may increase, BlackRock’s public reporting and disclosure requirements, which could be costly and may impede BlackRock’s growth.  

US Executive Order 

On February 3, 2017, an executive order (the “Executive Order”) was issued articulating certain core principles for regulating the US financial system and directing the Secretary of the US Treasury to report on the extent to which existing laws, treaties, rules, regulations and policies promote, support or inhibit the federal regulation of the US financial system in a manner consistent with the core principles. Treasury has issued four reports in response to the Executive Order (the “Treasury Reports”), which include a number of recommendations, the majority of which require further legislative or regulatory action in order to be implemented, that may affect BlackRock’s business or operations. BlackRock will continue to monitor the potential impact of the Executive Order, as well as the Treasury Reports and any consequential legislative or regulatory action, on its business. 

British Exit from the EU  

Following the June 2016 vote to exit the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, the United Kingdom (“UK”) left the EU on January 31, 2020 and entered an eleven-month transition period during which the UK, and UK-based entities, will retain the rights and obligations of EU membership.  

Substantial uncertainty remains surrounding the future relationship between the UK and EU, but the UK government has indicated its preference for negotiating a trade deal with the EU before the end of the transition period rather than continuing Single Market or Customs Union membership. BlackRock is implementing a number of steps to prepare for various outcomes, including there being no agreement in place when the transition period expires. These steps, many of which are time consuming and costly, include effecting organizational, governance and operational changes, applying for and receiving licenses and permissions in the EU, and engaging in client communications, and are expected to add complexity to BlackRock’s European operations. In addition, depending on the terms of the future relationship between the UK and the EU, BlackRock may experience further organizational and operational challenges and incur additional costs in connection with its European operations during the transition period and post-Brexit, which may impede the Company’s growth or impact its financial performance.  

Reform of Investment Markets 

BlackRock is subject to numerous regulatory reform initiatives that may affect the Company’s provision of investment services globally. In Europe, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”) governing the provision of investment services has been revised and is accompanied by an associated Regulation (together with certain secondary regulation, “MiFID II”). The Regulation’s requirements generally apply consistently across the EU. The MiFID II reforms, which came into force in January 2018, are substantive, materially changing market transparency requirements, enhancing protections afforded to investors, and increasing operational complexity for the Company. New disclosure and reporting obligations have been introduced, together with restrictions on how research may be funded and the nature of payments that may be provided to distributors. MiFID II, together with other market structure reforms, force more derivatives to be traded on-exchange, introduce new commodity derivatives position limits and significantly enhance reporting obligations associated with individual trades. The broad nature of the MiFID II reforms impact BlackRock’s product development, client servicing and distribution models. In particular, additional disclosures are required to be made in respect of costs and fees BlackRock charges to certain of its clients. MiFID II also impacts the ability of certain of BlackRock’s distribution partners to accept commissions from BlackRock for distributing BlackRock funds. Similar reforms have been introduced in Switzerland and Australia. 

13 

EU Market Access 

The European Commission and certain EU Member States have recently advanced a more restrictive approach to the need for a third country (i.e. non-EU country) to obtain “equivalence,” which is the process by which the legal, regulatory, and/or supervisory system in non-EU Member States is recognised by the European Commission as comparably effective to that in the EU, thereby allowing firms established in such non-EU Member States a degree of access to the EU single market in financial services. In addition, in 2019, the European Commission commenced a review of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive to assess, among other things, the effectiveness of regulation on third country fund marketing passports and the continuation of national private placement regimes. To the extent the review results in formal legislation that limits the scope of existing permitted activities and EU market access rights for asset management firms with non-EU operations, BlackRock’s ability to access EU-based clients may be adversely affected.  

Cessation of LIBOR 

The Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates the administrator of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) has announced that it will no longer compel panel banks to submit rates for LIBOR after year-end 2021. As a result, sterling LIBOR and certain other indices which are utilized as benchmarks may no longer be published. The disappearance, or change in the manner of administration, of these benchmarks could result in adverse consequences to the return on, value of and market for any BlackRock investments in instruments and securities linked to such benchmarks. BlackRock may also face operational challenges adopting successor benchmarks.  

Revised EU Capital Requirements for Investment Firms 

In December 2017, the European Commission published a proposal for a new Directive and Regulation on prudential requirements for MiFID investment firms. The proposal passed the EU legislative process and the final texts of the Regulation and Directive were published in December 2019. The new legislative package, which comes into effect in 2021, will result in changes to the amount of regulatory capital BlackRock is required to hold in the EU and how such capital is calculated, as well as introduce revised disclosure obligations for large investment firms.  

UK Asset Management Market Study 

The FCA has adopted requirements for UK fund managers to assess whether the retail collective investments they manage offer “value” to investors. Beginning in 2020, BlackRock will be required annually to disclose the conclusions of its assessment based upon various factors including cost, performance and comparable services. If “value” has not been provided to consumers, BlackRock will need to address any identified deficiencies. The FCA also requested that the UK’s Competition and Markets Authority (“CMA”) assess the investment consultant and fiduciary markets. The CMA’s final report identified a number of competition issues in such markets and the UK regulatory regime will be revised in 2020 to introduce mandatory tendering of investment consultancy and fiduciary management services, and new standards of disclosure of fees and performance. The CMA’s remedies could have a significant impact on BlackRock’s ability to enter into fiduciary and investment management mandates with UK pension fund clients.  

Macroprudential Policies for Asset Managers  

Certain European policymakers continue to raise concerns about liquidity and leverage risks in the asset management industry and wider market-based finance sector. These concerns may lead to macroprudential policy measures being applied to open-ended investment funds broadly, or regulation being introduced that requires changes to the structural features of certain open-ended investment funds. Either eventuality could limit BlackRock’s ability to offer products to certain clients and/or result in clients altering their investment strategies or allocations in a manner that is adverse to BlackRock. 

Senior Managers and Certification Regime 

In the UK, the FCA extended the Senior Managers and Certification Regime (“SMCR”) to all financial services firms in December 2019. The regime imposes greater accountability and responsibility across the senior management of UK financial services firms by making individuals in impacted firms more accountable for conduct and competence. SMCR impacts nearly all staff of the Company in the UK, and requires extensive documentation to support senior managers and evidence the discharge of their responsibilities.  

EU Shareholder Rights Directive 

The European Commission has revised the Shareholder Rights Directive to enhance engagement between companies and their long-term shareholders. The revisions, which became effective in June 2019, require investment managers to provide EU institutional investors with enhanced disclosures on shareholder engagement and voting, and information on how the manager’s investment strategy contributes to such investors’ medium to long-term performance.  

EU Sustainability Regulation  

In 2018, the European Commission introduced a number of regulatory proposals to underpin sustainable investment products; require disclosure of sustainability-related information by market participants, investments products, and issuers; and require the integration of sustainability considerations into the investment and risk management processes of asset managers and other institutional investors. Rules arising from the reform proposals will come into effect beginning in 2021.  

14 

EXISTING US REGULATION - OVERVIEW  

BlackRock and certain of its US subsidiaries are currently subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the federal level, by the SEC, the DoL, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the National Futures Association (“NFA”), the CFTC and other federal government agencies and regulatory bodies.  

Certain of BlackRock’s US subsidiaries are also subject to various anti-terrorist financing, privacy, anti-money laundering and economic sanctions laws and regulations established by various agencies. In addition, the Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers such as BlackRock, including record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. State level regulation through Attorneys General, Insurance Commissioners and other state level agencies also applies to certain BlackRock activities. 

The Investment Company Act imposes stringent governance, compliance, operational, disclosure and related obligations on registered investment companies and their investment advisers and distributors, such as BlackRock and its affiliates. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Non-compliance with the Advisers Act, the Investment Company Act or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, disgorgement, fines and reputational damage.  

BlackRock’s trading and investment activities for client accounts are regulated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), as well as the rules of various securities exchanges and self-regulatory organizations, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical requirements (e.g., short sale limits, volume limitations and reporting obligations) and market regulation policies. Violation of any of these laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions, as well as restrictions on BlackRock’s activities and damage to its reputation. Furthermore, one of BlackRock’s subsidiaries, BTC, was required to register as a municipal advisor (as that term is defined in the Exchange Act) with the SEC and Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”) as a result of SEC rules giving effect to a section of Dodd-Frank requiring such registration. The rules subject BTC to new and additional regulation by the SEC and MSRB. 

BlackRock manages a variety of private pools of capital, including hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, private equity funds, collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”), real estate funds, collective investment trusts, managed futures funds and hybrid funds. Congress, regulators, tax authorities and others continue to explore, on their own and in response to demands from the investment community and the public, increased regulation related to private pools of capital, including changes with respect to investor eligibility, certain limitations on trading activities, record-keeping and reporting, the scope of anti-fraud protections, safekeeping of client assets and a variety of other matters. BlackRock may be materially and adversely affected by new legislation, rule-making or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing rules and regulations imposed by various regulators in this area.  

Certain BlackRock subsidiaries are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), and to regulations promulgated thereunder by the DoL, insofar as they act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients that are subject to ERISA. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose certain duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit certain transactions involving ERISA plan clients and impose excise taxes for violations of these prohibitions, mandate certain required periodic reporting and disclosures and require certain BlackRock entities to carry bonds insuring against losses caused by fraud or dishonesty. ERISA also imposes additional compliance, reporting and operational requirements on BlackRock that otherwise are not applicable to clients that are not subject to ERISA.  

BlackRock has seven subsidiaries that are registered as commodity pool operators (“CPOs”) and/or commodity trading advisors (“CTAs”) with the CFTC and are members of the NFA. The CFTC and NFA each administer a comparable regulatory system covering futures contracts and various other financial instruments, including swaps as a result of Dodd-Frank, in which certain BlackRock clients may invest. Two of BlackRock’s subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers and are member-firms of FINRA. Each broker-dealer has a membership agreement with FINRA that limits the scope of such broker-dealer’s permitted activities. One of the broker-dealers is also an approved person with the New York Stock Exchange and a member of the MSRB, subject to MSRB rules. 

Certain of BlackRock’s business activity in California is subject to the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which became effective in January 2020 and which provides for enhanced consumer protections for California residents. The CCPA imposes new obligations on BlackRock for the handling, disclosure and deletion of personal information for California residents. Any failure by BlackRock to comply with the CCPA may result in fines, enhanced regulatory scrutiny and/or reputational harm.  

US Banking Regulation  

One of BlackRock’s subsidiaries, BTC, is organized as a nationally-chartered limited purpose trust company that does not accept deposits or make commercial loans. Accordingly, BTC is examined and supervised by the OCC and is subject to various banking laws and regulations enforced by the OCC, such as laws and regulations governing capital adequacy, fiduciary activities, conflicts of interest, self-dealing, and the prevention of financial crime, including money laundering. BTC is also a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to various Federal Reserve regulations applicable to member institutions, such as regulations restricting transactions with affiliates. Many of these laws and regulations are meant for the protection of BTC and/or BTC’s customers rather than BlackRock, its affiliates or stockholders. 

As described in “Item 1-Business”, as of December 31, 2019 PNC owned approximately 22% of BlackRock’s capital stock, which may subject BlackRock to banking regulation as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC. The Bank Holding Company Act by its terms does not currently apply to BlackRock. The Federal Reserve has taken the position that this ownership interest, in combination with certain other factors, causes BlackRock to be treated as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC for the purpose of the Bank Holding Company Act and that BlackRock is subject to banking regulation. Based on this interpretation of the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Reserve could initiate a process to formally determine that PNC controls BlackRock under the terms of the Bank Holding Company Act. Any such determination, if successful, would subject BlackRock to current and future regulatory requirements under the Bank Holding Company Act, including the Volcker Rule, that are  

15 

more restrictive than those the Company is subject to under other applicable laws, as well as the enforcement authority of the Federal Reserve, which includes the power to impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations. Any effort by BlackRock to contest a control determination by the Federal Reserve may be costly and complex, and may not result in a reversal of such determination.  

Regulation of Securities Financing Transactions 

In its 2014 Annual Report, FSOC identified securities lending indemnification by asset managers who act as lending agents as a potential systemic risk that required further review and monitoring. The Federal Reserve is also considering whether to impose specific margin or minimum haircut requirements for securities financing transactions. In addition, in November 2015, the EU introduced a regulation on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions and total return swaps (“SFTR”). The SFTR aims to improve the transparency surrounding securities financing transactions and total return swaps by, among other things, requiring reporting of securities financing transactions to a trade repository and requiring disclosure of the use of securities financing transactions and total return swaps to investors. The regulation is being implemented in phases and more detailed rules and guidance, including in respect of reporting obligations, is in process. As these rules and guidance become clearer, BlackRock may be required to introduce further compliance measures, which will subject BlackRock to additional expenses and could lead to modifications in BlackRock’s securities financing transaction activities, including potential adjustments to its activities as agent lender for its clients. 

Regulation of Money Market Funds 

In October 2016, rules were implemented to reform the regulatory structure governing US money market funds to address perceived systemic risks of money market funds. The rules require institutional prime and institutional municipal money market funds to employ a floating net asset value per share method of pricing, which allows the daily share prices of these funds to fluctuate along with changes in the market-based value of fund assets. Retail money market funds continue operating with a constant net asset value per share. The rules additionally provide for tools for institutional and retail money market funds’ boards designed to address market shocks, including the ability to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates under certain circumstances.  

EXISTING INTERNATIONAL REGULATION — OVERVIEW  

BlackRock’s international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of a number of international jurisdictions, as well as oversight by numerous regulatory agencies and bodies in those jurisdictions. In some instances, these operations are also affected by US laws and regulations that have extra-territorial application.  

Below is a summary of certain international regulatory standards to which BlackRock is subject. It is not meant to be comprehensive as there are parallel legal and regulatory arrangements in force in many jurisdictions where BlackRock’s subsidiaries conduct business.  

Of note among the various other international regulations to which BlackRock is subject, are the extensive and complex regulatory reporting requirements that necessitate the monitoring and reporting of issuer exposure levels (thresholds) across the holdings of managed funds and accounts and those of the Company.  

European Regulation  

The FCA currently regulates certain BlackRock subsidiaries in the UK. It also prudentially regulates those UK subsidiaries’ branches established in other EU countries and is also responsible for the conduct of business regulation of the UK branches of certain of BlackRock’s US subsidiaries. In addition, the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) regulates one BlackRock UK insurance subsidiary. Authorization by the FCA and (where relevant) the PRA is required to conduct certain financial services-related business in the UK under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the “FSMA”). The FCA’s rules adopted under the FSMA govern the majority of a firm’s capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients, and systems and controls, whereas the rules of the PRA focus solely on the prudential requirements that apply to BlackRock’s UK-based insurance subsidiary. The FCA supervises BlackRock’s UK-regulated subsidiaries through a combination of proactive engagement, event-driven and reactive supervision and theme-based reviews in order to monitor BlackRock’s compliance with regulatory requirements. Breaches of the FCA’s rules may result in a wide range of disciplinary actions against BlackRock’s UK-regulated subsidiaries and/or its employees.  

In addition, BlackRock has regulated entities in France, Germany, Ireland, Jersey, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Each of these entities is required to comply with regulatory rules in the country in which it has been established.  

BlackRock’s UK-regulated subsidiaries and other European subsidiaries and branches must comply with the pan-European regulatory regime established by MiFID II, which regulates the provision of investment services and activities throughout the EU. MiFID II sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity and non-equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements. Certain BlackRock European subsidiaries must also comply with the Consolidated Life Directive and Insurance Distribution Directive. In addition, relevant entities must comply with revised obligations on capital resources for banks and certain investment firms (the Capital Requirements Directive and Capital Requirements Regulation). These include requirements on capital, as well as matters of governance and remuneration. Relevant BlackRock entities must also comply with the requirements of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, which imposes obligations on the authorization and capital, conduct of business, organization, transparency and marketing of alternative investment funds that are sold in, or marketed to, the EU. The obligations introduced through these regulations and directives will have a direct effect on some of BlackRock’s European operations. 

BlackRock’s EU-regulated subsidiaries are also subject to the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”), an EU regulation governing derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, which requires (i) the central clearing of standardized over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives, (ii) the application of risk-mitigation techniques to non-centrally cleared OTC derivatives (including the exchange of collateral with  

16 

certain counterparties) and (iii) the reporting of all derivative contracts to a European Securities and Markets Authority registered or recognized derivatives trade repository.  

The EU has also adopted directives on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (“UCITS”). The latest initiative in this area, UCITS V, aligns the UCITS depositary regime, UCITS remuneration rules and regulators’ power to sanction for breaches of the UCITS Directive with the requirements of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive. Compliance with the UCITS directive subjects BlackRock to additional expenses associated with depositary oversight and other organizational requirements.  

Most EU Member States and other non-US jurisdictions have adopted statutes and/or regulations concerning data privacy and security and requiring notification of data breaches. For example, in May 2018, the EU Data Protection Directive was replaced by a more extensive General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). GDPR, as well as other statutes and/or regulations concerning data privacy and security, increase compliance obligations, affect BlackRock’s collection, processing and retention of personal data and reporting of data breaches, and provide for increased penalties for non-compliance.  

Regulation in the Asia-Pacific Region  

In Japan, a BlackRock subsidiary is subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (“FIEA”) and the Act on Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (“JFSA”), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEA. This Japanese subsidiary also holds a license for real estate brokerage activities which subjects it to the regulations set forth in the Real Estate Brokerage Act.  

In Australia, BlackRock’s subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws, and certain subsidiaries are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (“ASIC”). ASIC regulates companies and financial services activities in Australia and is responsible for promoting investor, creditor and consumer protection.  

The activities of certain BlackRock subsidiaries in Hong Kong are subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”), which governs the securities and futures markets and regulates, among others, offers of investments to the public and provides for the licensing of intermediaries. The SFO is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (“SFC”). The SFC is also empowered to establish standards for compliance as well as codes and guidelines. The relevant BlackRock subsidiaries and the employees conducting any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are required to be licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC. BlackRock’s operations in Taiwan are regulated by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, which is responsible for regulating securities markets (including the Taiwan Stock Exchange and the Taiwan Futures Exchange), the banking industry and the insurance sector.  

Other financial regulators oversee BlackRock subsidiaries, branches, and representative offices across the Asia-Pacific region, including in Singapore and South Korea. Regulators in all of these jurisdictions have authority with respect to financial services including, among other things, the authority to grant, suspend or cancel required licenses or registrations. In addition, these regulators may subject certain BlackRock subsidiaries to net capital requirements.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

BlackRock files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and all amendments to these reports and other information with the SEC. BlackRock makes available free-of-charge, on or through its website at http://www.blackrock.com, the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Company also makes available on its website the charters for the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Further, BlackRock will provide, without charge, upon written request, a copy of the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and all amendments to those filings as well as the committee charters, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and its Corporate Governance Guidelines. Requests for copies should be addressed to Investor Relations, BlackRock, Inc., 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York 10055. Reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including BlackRock’s filings, are also available to the public from the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. 

17 

Item 1A. Risk Factors