ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis provides information management believes to be relevant to understanding the financial condition and results of operations of Boston Scientific Corporation and its subsidiaries. For a full understanding of our financial condition and results of operations, this discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.

For additional information on our financial condition and results of operations for 2017, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

During the third quarter of 2019, we completed the acquisition of BTG plc (BTG) which was composed of three key businesses, the largest of which was its interventional medicine (Interventional Medicine) that encompasses interventional oncology therapeutic technologies for patients with liver and kidney cancers, as well as a vascular portfolio for treatment of deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, deep venous obstruction and superficial venous disease. Following the closing of the acquisition, the Interventional Medicine business was integrated into our Peripheral Interventions division. For additional information, refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments.

Executive Summary 

Financial Highlights and Trends

In 2019, we generated net sales of $10.735 billion, as compared to $9.823 billion in 2018. This increase of $912 million, or 9.3 percent, included operational growth of 11.1 percent and the negative impact of 180 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations. Operational net sales1 included $378 million in 2019 due to the acquisitions of NxThera, Inc. (NxThera) in the second quarter of 2018, Claret Medical, Inc. (Claret) in the third quarter of 2018, Augmenix, Inc. (Augmenix) in the fourth quarter of 2018, Vertiflex, Inc. (Vertiflex) in the second quarter of 2019, and BTG in the third quarter of 2019, each with less than a full year of prior period related net sales. Refer to the Business and Market Overview section for further discussion of our net sales by global business.  

Our reported net income in 2019 was $4.700 billion, or $3.33 per diluted share. Our reported results for 2019 included certain charges and/or credits totaling $2.466 billion (after-tax), or $1.75 per diluted share. These adjustments are excluded from results reviewed by management in order to analyze the underlying trends in our business, assess our performance period over period, and make operating decisions. Excluding these items, adjusted net income1 for 2019 was $2.234 billion, or $1.58 per diluted share. 

Our reported net income in 2018 was $1.671 billion, or $1.19 per diluted share. Our reported results for 2018 included certain charges and/or credits totaling $389 million (after-tax), or $0.28 per diluted share. Excluding these items, adjusted net income for 2018 was $2.060 billion, or $1.47 per diluted share. 

1 Operational net sales growth rates, which exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share, which exclude certain items required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP), are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a replacement for, the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Refer to Additional Information for a discussion of management’s use of these non-GAAP financial measures. 

 36

The following is a reconciliation of our results of operations prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP to those adjusted results considered by management. Refer to Results of Operations for a discussion of each reconciling item: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash provided by operating activities was $1.836 billion in 2019. As of December 31, 2019, we had total debt of $10.008 billion, Cash and cash equivalents of $217 million and a working capital deficit of $168 million. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information. 

 37

Business and Market Overview

The following section describes an overview of our product offerings and results of operations by business unit. For additional information on our businesses and their product offerings, see Item 1. Business of this Annual Report. 

Our seven core businesses are organized into three reportable segments: MedSurg, Rhythm and Neuro, and Cardiovascular. Following our acquisition of BTG, which closed during the third quarter of 2019, we have included BTG’s Interventional Medicine business within our Peripheral Interventions operating segment, within the Cardiovascular reportable segment. We present BTG’s Specialty Pharmaceuticals business as a standalone operating segment alongside our reportable segments. 

MedSurg

Endoscopy

Our Endoscopy business develops and manufactures devices to diagnose and treat a broad range of gastrointestinal (GI) and pulmonary conditions with innovative, less invasive technologies.

Our net sales of Endoscopy products of $1.894 billion represented 18 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019. Our Endoscopy net sales increased $132 million, or 7.5 percent, in 2019, as compared to 2018. This increase included operational net sales growth of 9.2 percent and the negative impact of 170 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2018. This year-over-year increase was primarily driven by growth in our pancreaticobiliary franchise with both our SpyGlass™ DS II Direct Visualization System, AXIOS™ Stent and Electrocautery Enhanced Delivery System, our core GI franchise featuring our Resolution 360™ Clip, disposable snares and Endoluminal Surgery products, and our infection prevention products.

Urology and Pelvic Health

Our Urology and Pelvic Health business develops and manufactures devices to treat various urological and pelvic conditions for both male and female anatomies.

Our net sales of Urology and Pelvic Health products of $1.413 billion represented 13 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019. Urology and Pelvic Health net sales increased $167 million, or 13.4 percent, in 2019, as compared to 2018. This increase included operational net sales growth of 14.7 percent and the negative impact of 130 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2018. This year-over-year increase was primarily attributable to growth in sales of our prostate health product family, including the SpaceOAR™ Hydrogel System purchased as part of the acquisition of Augmenix in the fourth quarter of 2018 and the Rezûm™ System purchased as part of the acquisition of NxThera in the second quarter of 2018, as well as our stone franchise, including our LithoVue™ Digital Flexible Ureteroscope. 

Rhythm and Neuro

Cardiac Rhythm Management

Our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) business develops and manufactures a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities. 

Our net sales of CRM products of $1.939 billion represented 18 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019. Our net sales of CRM products decreased $12 million, or 0.6 percent, in 2019, as compared to 2018. This decrease included operational net sales growth of 1.2 percent and the negative impact of 180 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2018. This year-over-year increase in operational net sales was driven by share gains in our high voltage franchise. Our high voltage performance was driven by the strength of our broad high voltage portfolio including the RESONATE™ family of cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) and implantable cardiac defibrillator's (ICD) with HeartLogic™, our EMBLEM™ magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) subcutaneous implantable cardiac defibrillator (S-ICD), and high voltage replacement device growth. This strength in our high voltage pacemaker franchise was partially offset by declines in our low voltage pacemaker franchise primarily due to U.S. pacemaker share loss.

Electrophysiology

Our Electrophysiology business develops and manufactures less-invasive medical technologies used in the diagnosis and treatment of rate and rhythm disorders of the heart.

 38

Our net sales of Electrophysiology products of $329 million represented three percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019. Our Electrophysiology net sales increased $17 million, or 5.5 percent, in 2019, as compared to 2018. This increase included operational net sales growth of 7.5 percent and the negative impact of 200 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2018. This year-over-year increase was primarily driven by strong growth across our global Rhythmia™ Mapping and Navigation Products, partially offset by declines in our core diagnostic and therapeutic devices due to relatively slower end markets and share loss in select product categories. Our Rhythmia Mapping System and navigation portfolio growth was driven by the continued account expansion of our global system footprint and commercialization of our IntellaNav MiFi™ Open-Irrigated catheter and DIRECTSENSE™ Software in approved markets. 

Neuromodulation

Our Neuromodulation business develops and manufactures devices to treat various neurological movement disorders and manage chronic pain.

Our net sales of Neuromodulation products of $873 million represented eight percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019. Neuromodulation net sales increased $94 million, or 12.0 percent, in 2019, as compared to 2018. This increase included operational net sales growth of 13.1 percent and the negative impact of 110 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2018. This year-over-year increase was primarily driven by strong performance of our deep brain stimulation (DBS) systems, sales of our Superion™ Indirect Decompression System following the acquisition of Vertiflex in the second quarter of 2019, and sales in international markets; partially offset by declines in our U.S. Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS) Systems portfolio due to market contraction. 

Cardiovascular

Interventional Cardiology

Our Interventional Cardiology business develops, manufactures and commercializes technologies for diagnosing and treating coronary artery disease and other cardiovascular disorders including structural heart conditions.

Our net sales of Interventional Cardiology products of $2.816 billion represented 26 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019. Our Interventional Cardiology net sales increased $226 million, or 8.7 percent, in 2019, as compared to 2018. This increase included operational net sales growth of 11.0 percent and the negative impact of 230 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2018. This year-over-year increase was primarily related to growth in our structural heart therapies including our Watchman™ LAAC Device, our TAVR products including our ACURATE™ Neo Valve outside the U.S. and LOTUS™ Edge Valve as well as our Sentinel™ Cerebral Embolic Protection System. Our year-over-year sales increase was also attributable to our Complex PCI and PCI Guidance product offerings, partially offset by declines in sales of drug eluting stent product offerings. 

Peripheral Interventions

Our Peripheral Interventions business develops and manufactures products to diagnose and treat peripheral arterial and venous diseases, as well as products to diagnose, treat and ease various forms of cancer. In the third quarter of 2019, we completed the acquisition of BTG, and began integrating BTG's Interventional Medicine (IM) portfolio into the Peripheral Interventions division, adding complementary technologies in the areas of venous disease and interventional oncology.

Our net sales of Peripheral Interventions products of $1.392 billion represented 13 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019, and included $144 million of sales from BTG products following the date of acquisition. Our Peripheral Interventions net sales increased $205 million, or 17.3 percent, in 2019, as compared to 2018, and $61 million or 5.1 percent excluding BTG. This increase included operational net sales growth of 19.1 percent (7.8 percent excluding BTG and the related divestiture of our drug-eluting and bland embolic microsphere portfolio) and the negative impact of 180 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2018. This year-over-year increase was primarily driven by global growth of the Eluvia™ Drug Eluting Vascular Stent System, which was launched in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2018 and Japan in the first quarter of 2019. 

 39

Specialty Pharmaceuticals

Following the closing of the BTG acquisition in the third quarter of 2019, Specialty Pharmaceuticals was added as an eighth operating segment. Our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business develops and manufactures acute care antidotes to treat overexposure to certain medications and toxins. These products are sold primarily in the U.S. through small, specialist sales teams and through commercial partners elsewhere, where approved or permitted, on a named patient basis.

Our net sales of Specialty Pharmaceuticals products of $81 million following the date of acquisition represented less than one percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019. 

Emerging Markets

As part of our strategic imperatives to drive global expansion, described in Item 1. Business of this Annual Report, we are seeking to grow net sales and market share by expanding our global presence, including in Emerging Markets. We define Emerging Markets as the 20 countries that we believe have strong growth potential based on their economic conditions, healthcare sectors and our global capabilities. We have increased our investment in infrastructure in these countries in order to maximize opportunities. Periodically, we assess our list of Emerging Markets; effective January 1, 2019, we updated our list of Emerging Market countries. Our current list is comprised of the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, South Africa, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey and Vietnam. The revision had an immaterial impact on prior year Emerging Markets sales. Our Emerging Markets net sales of Medical Devices represented 12 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2019 and 11 percent in 2018. In 2019, our Emerging Markets net sales grew 14.1 percent on a reported basis including operational net sales growth of 19.5 percent and the negative impact of 540 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations, as compared to 2018. Our future net sales in Emerging Markets may be negatively impacted by geopolitical and economic instability and a number of other factors, including the impact to our net sales in China from the evolving coronavirus situation.

 40

Results of Operations

Net Sales

The following table provides our net sales by business and the relative change in growth on a reported basis: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)We have three historical reportable segments comprised of Medical Surgical (MedSurg), Rhythm and Neuro, and Cardiovascular, which represent an aggregation of our operating segments that generate revenues from the sale of medical devices (Medical Devices). As part of our acquisition of BTG on August 19, 2019, we acquired an Interventional Medicine business, which is now included in our Peripheral Interventions operating segment's 2019 revenues from the date of acquisition.

Refer to Executive Summary for further discussion of our net sales and a comparison of our 2019 and 2018 net sales.

In 2018, we generated net sales of $9.823 billion, as compared to $9.048 billion in 2017. This increase of $775 million, or 8.6 percent, included operational growth of 8.0 percent and the positive impact of 60 basis points from foreign currency fluctuations. Operational net sales included approximately $78 million in 2018 due to the acquisitions of Symetis SA (Symetis) in the second quarter of 2017, NxThera, Inc. (NxThera) in the second quarter of 2018, Claret Medical, Inc. (Claret) in the third quarter of 2018 and Augmenix, Inc. (Augmenix) in the fourth quarter of 2018, each with no prior period related net sales.

 41

Gross Profit

Our gross profit was $7.620 billion in 2019 and $7.011 billion in 2018. As a percentage of net sales, our gross profit decreased to 71.0 percent in 2019, as compared to 71.4 percent in 2018. The following is a rollforward of our gross profit margins and a description of the drivers of the change from period to period:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The primary factors contributing to the decrease in our gross profit margin for 2019 as compared to 2018 were the negative impacts of pricing declines related primarily to sales of our coronary drug-eluting stent products, as well as increased levels of scrap associated with recently launched products and excess and obsolete inventory. In addition, in connection with our recent acquisitions, we adjusted acquired inventory from manufacturing cost to fair value. The step-up in value is amortized through gross profit over an average estimated inventory turnover period. In 2019, we recorded increased cost of $46 million associated with these step-ups. This was partially offset by manufacturing cost reductions driven by our process improvement programs as well as favorable foreign currency fluctuations.

The primary factors contributing to the increase in our gross profit margin for 2018 as compared to 2017 were the positive impacts of cost reductions resulting from our process improvement programs and restructuring programs and favorable period expense, partially offset by negative impacts from foreign currency fluctuations. 

EU MDR Implementation Charges

The European Union Medical Device Regulation (EU MDR) is a replacement of the existing European Medical Devices Directive (MDD) regulatory framework, and manufacturers of medical devices are required to comply with EU MDR beginning in May 2020 for new product registrations and by May 2024 for medical devices which have a valid CE Certificate to the current Directives (issued before May 2020).

We consider the adoption of EU MDR to be a significant change to a regulatory framework, and therefore, the incremental costs specific to complying with EU MDR for previously registered products are not considered to be ordinary course expenditures in connection with regulatory matters. As such, these medical device regulation charges are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance. We expect to incur expenditures of approximately $150 million over the next three years associated with the implementation of EU MDR, which will be recorded primarily within Cost of products sold.

 42

Operating Expenses

The following table provides a summary of certain of our operating expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses

In 2019, our SG&A expenses increased $371 million, or 10 percent, as compared to 2018 and were 40 basis points higher as a percentage of net sales. This increase in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to acquisition-related charges primarily associated with our acquisition and integration of BTG, partially offset by savings from ongoing cost optimization initiatives. These increased SG&A expenses were also partially offset by a $25 million net gain recorded in the first quarter primarily associated with a portion of the Edwards litigation settlement. For further details regarding the presentation of the Edwards litigation settlement see Litigation-related net charges (credits) below. 

In 2018, our SG&A expenses increased $275 million, or eight percent, as compared to 2017 and were 10 basis points lower as a percentage of net sales. This decrease in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to leverage from increased sales, as well as the benefit of our targeted initiatives focused on reducing SG&A expenses such as end-to-end business process streamlining and automation, including functional expansion of global shared service and robotic process utilization.

Research and Development (R&D) Expenses

We remain committed to advancing medical technologies and investing in meaningful research and development projects across our businesses. In 2019, our R&D expenses increased $61 million, or six percent, as compared to 2018, and were 40 basis points lower as a percentage of net sales. In 2018, our R&D expenses increased $116 million, or 12 percent, as compared to 2017, and were 30 basis points higher as a percentage of sales. R&D expenses increased each year as a result of investments across our businesses in order to maintain a pipeline of new products that we believe will contribute to profitable sales growth. 

Royalty Expense

In 2019, our Royalty expense decreased $5 million, or seven percent, as compared to 2018 and was 10 basis points lower as a percentage of net sales. The decrease in Royalty expense in 2019, as compared to 2018, relates primarily to contractual reductions in royalty rates associated with certain products. 

In 2018, our Royalty expense increased $2 million, or three percent, as compared to 2017 and was 10 basis points lower as a percentage of net sales. The increase in Royalty expense in 2018 as compared to 2017 relates primarily to increased sales partially offset by expired royalties in certain countries.

The following table provides a summary of certain of our other operating expenses, which are excluded by management for purposes of evaluating operating performance, refer to Additional Information for a further description of certain operating expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 43

Amortization Expense

In 2019, our Amortization expense increased $101 million, or 17 percent, as compared to 2018. In 2018, our Amortization expense increased $33 million, or six percent, as compared to 2017. The increases in each period were primarily due to an increase in the balance of amortizable intangible assets as a result of recent acquisitions.

Intangible Asset Impairment Charges

In 2019, our Intangible asset impairment charges were $105 million, primarily associated with technology-related amortizable intangible assets. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates for a discussion of key assumptions used in our goodwill and intangible asset impairment testing and future events that could have a negative impact on the recoverability of our goodwill and intangible assets.

Contingent Consideration Expense (Benefit)

In 2019, 2018, and 2017, we recorded net benefits related to the change in fair value of our contingent consideration liability. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details related to our contingent consideration arrangements.

Restructuring Charges (Credits)

In June 2016, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to a restructuring initiative (the 2016 Restructuring Plan), which was initiated in the second quarter of 2016 and substantially completed in 2019. The 2016 Restructuring Plan resulted in total pre-tax charges of $271 million and approximately $255 million in cash outlays. 

In addition, in November 2018, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a new global restructuring program (the 2019 Restructuring Plan). The 2019 Restructuring Plan is expected to result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $200 million to $300 million and approximately $180 million to $280 million of these charges are expected to result in cash outlays. A substantial portion of the savings are being reinvested in strategic growth initiatives. 

Restructuring charges pursuant to these programs were $38 million in 2019, $36 million in 2018, and $37 million in 2017. See Note G – Restructuring-related Activities to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details on our restructuring plans.

Litigation-related Net Charges (Credits) 

In 2019, our litigation-related net charges included a net charge of $223 million in the fourth quarter of 2019, primarily related to litigation with Channel Medsystems, Inc., net charges of $25 million in the third quarter of 2019 and $15 million in the second quarter of 2019, primarily related to transvaginal surgical mesh product liability litigation, and a gain of $148 million recorded in the first quarter of 2019, which represents a portion of the total $180 million one-time settlement payment received from Edwards Lifesciences Corporation (Edwards) in January 2019. We record certain legal and product liability charges, credits and costs of defense, which we consider to be unusual or infrequent and significant as Litigation-related net charges (credits) in our consolidated financial statements. All other legal and product liability charges, credits and costs are recorded within SG&A expenses. As such, a portion of the related gain from the Edwards settlement was recorded in SG&A expenses on our consolidated statements of operations.

In 2018 and 2017, our litigation-related net charges were primarily in connection with transvaginal surgical mesh product liability cases and claims.

We continue to assess certain litigation and claims to determine the amounts, if any, that management believes will be paid as a result of such claims and litigation, and therefore, additional losses may be accrued and paid in the future, which could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and/or our ability to comply with our debt covenants. Refer to Note J – Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional discussion of our material legal proceedings.

 44

Interest Expense

The following table provides a summary of our Interest expense and average borrowing rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense increased in 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to the increase in our average debt balance following the February 2019 senior notes offering as well as the Euro bond offering in November 2019. A portion of the proceeds from the February 2019 senior notes offering were used to finance our acquisition of BTG. The net proceeds from our November 2019 senior notes offering were used to repay certain outstanding principal amounts of our senior notes and pay accrued and unpaid interest, premiums, and fees. In addition, Interest expense in 2019 included debt extinguishment charges following our 2019 senior notes offerings and subsequent repayment of existing senior notes and termination of the Bridge Facility. 

Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources in this Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note D – Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements and Note E – Contractual Obligations and Commitments to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for information regarding our debt obligations.

Other, net

The following are the components of Other, net:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain of our non-designated forward currency contracts were entered into for the purpose of managing our exposure to currency exchange rate risk related to the purchase price of our acquisition of BTG. In 2019, we settled all outstanding contracts, and we recognized a $323 million loss in Other, net due to changes in fair value of the contracts. These amounts are included in Acquisition/divestiture-related net charges (credits) presented in the reconciliation of our results of operations prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP to those adjusted results considered by management. Refer to Financial Summary for the reconciliation and Additional Information for a discussion of management's use of non-GAAP financial measures.

In 2018, we recorded gains of $184 million based on the difference between the book values and the fair values of our previously-held investments immediately prior to the acquisition dates, which aggregated to $251 million. We remeasured the fair value of each previously-held investment based on the implied enterprise value and allocation of purchase price consideration according to priority of equity interests. Gains and losses recorded on previously-held investments are excluded by management for purposes of evaluating operating performance. Refer to Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for information regarding our strategic investments.

 45

Tax Rate

The following table provides a summary of our reported tax rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)These receipts/charges are taxed at different rates than our effective tax rate.

The change in our reported tax rate for 2019, as compared to 2018, relates primarily to the deferred tax benefit of intra-entity transfers of intellectual property rights partially offset by increased current tax expense related to the U.S. taxation of current foreign earnings.

The change in our reported tax rate for 2018, as compared to 2017, relates primarily to the impact of certain receipts and charges that are taxed at different rates than our effective tax rate. These receipts and charges included intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition-related items, restructuring and restructuring-related items, litigation-related items, as well as certain discrete tax items. Included in the discrete tax items were the effective settlement of our transfer pricing dispute with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the 2001 through 2010 tax years, the conclusion of the IRS examinations of our 2011 through 2013 tax years, and the final impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), enacted on December 22, 2017.

`

In the second quarter of 2018, a decision was entered by the U.S. Tax Court resolving all disputes for Guidant Corporation for its 2001 through 2006 tax years and our 2006 and 2007 tax years as well as the tax issues related to our 2006 transaction with Abbott Laboratories. Additionally, we resolved all issues with the IRS Office of Appeals for our 2008 through 2010 tax years. The final settlement calculation resulted in a final net tax payment of $303 million plus $307 million of estimated interest, which was remitted in the second quarter of 2018. Due to the final settlement of these disputes, we recorded a net tax benefit of $250 million in 2018 to remove a reserve related to these years. 

In the fourth quarter of 2018, we received a Revenue Agent Report (RAR) from the IRS for our 2011 through 2013 tax years. We remitted $93 million to the IRS in the fourth quarter of 2018 reflecting the net balance of tax and interest due for these years after consideration of amounts owed to us by the IRS. Due to the resolution of these tax years, we recorded a net tax benefit of $90 million to remove a reserve related to these years.

See Note I – Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details on our tax rate.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Based on our current business plan, we believe our existing balance of Cash and cash equivalents, future cash generated from operations, access to capital markets and existing credit facilities will be sufficient to fund our operations, invest in our infrastructure, pay our legal-related liabilities, pay taxes due, fund possible mergers and/or acquisitions and service and repay our existing debt. Please refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments below for additional details on our future payment obligations and commitments.

As of December 31, 2019, we had $217 million of unrestricted Cash and cash equivalents on hand, comprised of $50 million invested in money market and government funds and $165 million in interest bearing and non-interest-bearing bank accounts. We invest excess cash on hand in short-term financial instruments that earn at market interest rates while mitigating principal risk through instrument and counterparty diversification, as well as what we believe to be prudent instrument selection. We limit our direct exposure to securities in any one industry or issuer. We also have access to our $2.750 billion commercial paper program, which is backed by our 2018 revolving credit facility entered into on December 19, 2018. As of December 31, 2019, we had $711 million in commercial paper debt outstanding resulting in an additional $2.039 billion of available liquidity.

In the fourth quarter of 2019, we entered into a $700 million term loan credit agreement scheduled to mature on December 3, 2020 (2020 Term Loan). As of December 31, 2019, we had the full amount outstanding under the 2020 Term Loan, which is presented within Current debt obligations on our consolidated balance sheet. In the first quarter of 2020, we repaid $300 million of the outstanding balance of the 2020 Term Loan.

 46

For the purpose of funding our acquisition of BTG, in the fourth quarter of 2018, we entered into a $1.000 billion two-year delayed draw term loan credit facility, maturing in two years from the date of the closing of our acquisition of BTG (Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan) and a $1.000 billion three-year delayed draw term loan credit facility, maturing in three years from the date of the closing of our acquisition of BTG (Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan). In 2019, we used the proceeds from the Two-Year and Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan facilities to refinance the Bridge Facility, as described below, and fund a portion of our acquisition of BTG. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we repaid $200 million of the Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan with proceeds from the sale of the Zytiga-related royalty interests obtained through the acquisition of BTG and extinguished the facility, and we repaid the remaining $800 million of the $1.000 billion with proceeds from the 2020 Term Loan and commercial paper and terminated the Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan. As of December 31, 2018, we had no amounts borrowed under the Two-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan or the Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan. As of December 31, 2019, we had $1.000 billion outstanding under the Three-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan, which is presented within Long-term debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.

In the fourth quarter of 2019, we completed an offering of €900 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.625% senior notes due in 2027. The Euro-denominated debt principal is a nonderivative instrument designated as a net investment hedge of our net investments in certain of our Euro functional entities. We used a portion of the net proceeds from our senior notes offering to repay certain outstanding principal amounts of our senior notes including $206 million of our $450 million 4.125% senior notes due 2023, $566 million of our $1.000 billion 4.000% senior notes due 2028 and $227 million of our $750 million 3.850% senior notes due 2025 and pay accrued and unpaid interest, premiums, fees and expenses in connection with the transaction.

In the first quarter of 2019, we completed an offering of $4.300 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the offering to repay the $850 million plus accrued interest and premium of our 6.000% senior notes due in January 2020 (January 2020 Notes), the $600 million plus accrued interest and premium of our 2.850% senior notes due in May 2020 (May 2020 Notes) and the $1.000 billion plus accrued interest of our August 2019 Term Loan. In 2019, the remaining proceeds were used to finance a portion of our acquisition of BTG.

In the first quarter of 2019, upon the closing of our senior notes offering in aggregate principal amount of $4.300 billion described above, we terminated the Bridge Facility entered into on November 20, 2018. The termination was pursuant to the terms of the Bridge Facility, which required full termination upon the refinancing of the January 2020 Notes and May 2020 Notes discussed above. There were no amounts borrowed under the Bridge Facility as of December 31, 2018.

For additional information on our credit facilities, refer to Note E – Contractual Obligations and Commitments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.

 47

The following provides a summary and description of our net cash inflows (outflows) and adjusted free cash flow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

In 2019, cash provided by operating activities increased $1.526 billion, as compared to 2018. This increase was primarily due to the one-time settlement payment of $180 million that we received from Edwards Lifesciences Corporation in January 2019, comparatively fewer litigation payments in 2019 primarily associated with product liability cases or claims related to transvaginal surgical mesh products and the IRS final net tax settlement payments of $303 million plus $307 million of estimated interest that we remitted in the second quarter of 2018 and $93 million reflecting the net balance of tax and interest due in the fourth quarter of 2018. 

In 2018, cash provided by operating activities decreased $1.116 billion, or 78 percent, as compared to 2017. This decrease was primarily due to the IRS tax settlement payments in 2018 described above.

Investing Activities

In 2019, cash used for investing activities primarily included Payments for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired of $4.382 billion relating to our acquisitions of BTG, Vertiflex and Millipede, Inc. (Millipede), Purchases of property, plant and equipment of $461 million, Payments for investments and acquisitions of certain technologies of $149 million, partially offset by Proceeds from divestiture of certain businesses of $90 million relating to the sale of our drug-eluting and bland embolic microsphere portfolio to Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (Varian) in connection with our acquisition of BTG. Cash used for investing activities also included Payments for settlements of hedge contracts of $199 million, of which $95 million relates to the termination and settlement of our outstanding forward currency contracts designated as net investment hedges in our Euro-denominated entities and $294 million relates to the settlement of our non-designated forward currency contracts entered into for the purpose of managing our exposure to currency exchange rate risk related to the GBP-denominated purchase price of BTG. Refer to Note D – Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for further information.

In 2018, cash used for investing activities primarily included Payments for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired of $1.448 billion primarily relating to our acquisitions of Augmenix, NxThera, Cryterion Medical, Inc., Claret and nVision, Purchases of property, plant and equipment of $316 million and Payments for investments and acquisitions of certain technologies of $172 million, including our $90 million investment in Millipede in the first quarter of 2018.

2Adjusted free cash flow, which excludes certain items required by U.S. GAAP is not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a replacement for, the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Refer to Additional Information for a discussion of management’s use of non-GAAP financial measures. 

 48

Financing Activities

Our cash flows provided by financing activities reflect issuances and repayments of debt, including our commercial paper program and cash used for new share settlement and stock issuances related to our equity incentive programs, as discussed in Note K – Stockholders' Equity to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report. In addition, our financing activities included Payments of contingent consideration and royalty rights established in purchase accounting of $135 million in 2019, $19 million in 2018 and $33 million in 2017. In connection with the acquisition of BTG, we acquired rights to future royalties associated with the Zytiga™ drug used to treat certain forms of prostate cancer. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we sold our rights to these royalties for $256 million in cash, included in Proceeds from royalty rights transfer.

Our liquidity plans are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report, some of which are outside our control. Macroeconomic conditions, adverse litigation outcomes and other risks and uncertainties could limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans and adversely affect our liquidity plans.

Debt

The following table presents the current and long-term portions of our total debt:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table presents the portions of our total debt that are comprised of fixed and variable rate debt instruments, which are presented on an amortized cost basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of and through December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all the required covenants related to our debt obligations. For additional details related to our debt obligations, including our debt covenant requirements, refer to Note E – Contractual Obligations and Commitments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.

Equity

During 2019 we received $123 million in proceeds from stock issuances related to our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, as compared to $101 million in 2018. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchases vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock and in the exercise and stock purchase patterns of employees.

We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during 2019 or 2018. As of December 31, 2019, we had remaining approximately $535 million authorized under our 2013 share repurchase program. There were approximately 248 million shares in treasury as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.

Stock-based compensation expense related to our stock ownership plans was $157 million in 2019 and $140 million in 2018. Stock-based compensation expense varies from period to period based upon, among other factors, the timing, number and fair value of awards granted during the period, forfeiture levels related to unvested awards and employee contributions to our employee stock purchase plan, as well as the retirement eligibility of stock award recipients.

 49

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

The following table provides a summary of certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make future payments and is based on conditions in existence as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Debt obligations are comprised of our senior notes, term loan and commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2019. This does not include unamortized debt issuance discounts, deferred financing costs and gain on fair value hedges or capital lease obligations. Refer to Note E – Contractual Obligations and Commitments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information. In January 2020, we repaid $300 million of the outstanding balance of the 2020 Term Loan with proceeds from our commercial paper program.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The amounts in the table above with respect to purchase obligations relate primarily to non-cancellable inventory commitments and capital expenditures entered in the normal course of business. Royalty obligations reported above represent minimum contractual obligations under our current royalty agreements. 

The table above does not include:

•Our long-term liability for legal matters that are probable and estimable of $227 million due to the timing of payment being uncertain. Refer to Note J – Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for more information,

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•With certain of our acquisitions, we acquired IPR&D projects that require future funding to complete the projects. We estimate that the total remaining R&D cost to complete acquired IPR&D projects is between $200 million and $210 million. Net cash inflows from the projects currently in development are expected to commence in 2020 and will continue through 2037, following the respective launches of these technologies in the U.S., Europe and Japan. Certain of our acquisitions also involve the potential payment of contingent consideration, but the timing and amounts are uncertain. See Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for more information.

Legal Matters

For a discussion of our material legal proceedings see Note J – Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report.

 50

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our financial results are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods. We have adopted accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. 

To prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, management makes estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, including our contingent liabilities, as of the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of our revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. We consider estimates to be critical (i) if we are required to make assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time of estimation or (ii) if materially different estimates could have been made or it is reasonably likely that the accounting estimate will change from period to period. The following are areas considered to be critical and require management’s judgment: Revenue Recognition, Bad Debt Reserves, Inventory Provisions, Valuation of Intangible Assets and Contingent Consideration Liability, Goodwill Valuation, Legal and Product Liability Accruals and Income Taxes.

See Note A – Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information related to our accounting policies and our consideration of these critical accounting areas. In addition, see Note B – Acquisitions and Strategic Investments and Note C – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for further discussion of the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets and contingent consideration, Note I – Income Taxes for further discussion of income tax related matters, Note J – Commitments and Contingencies for further discussion of legal and product liability matters and Note O – Revenue for further discussion of revenue recognition.

Revenue Recognition

Deferred Revenue

We record a contract liability, or deferred revenue, when we have an obligation to provide a product or service to the customer and payment is received or due in advance of our performance. When we sell a device with a future service obligation, we defer revenue on the unfulfilled performance obligation and recognize this revenue over the related service period. Many of our Cardiac Rhythm Management product offerings combine the sale of a device with our LATITUDE™ Patient Management System, which represents a future service obligation. Generally, we do not have observable evidence of the standalone selling price related to our future service obligations; therefore, we estimate the selling price using an expected cost plus a margin approach. We allocate the transaction price using the relative standalone selling price method. The use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of revenue deferral.

Contract liabilities are classified within Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Our contractual liabilities are primarily composed of deferred revenue related to the LATITUDE™ Patient Management System. Revenue is recognized over the average service period which is based on device and patient longevity.

Variable Consideration

We generally allow our customers to return defective, damaged and, in certain cases, expired products for credit. We base our estimate for sales returns upon historical trends and record the amount as a reduction to revenue when we sell the initial product. In addition, we may allow customers to return previously purchased products for next-generation product offerings. For these transactions, we defer recognition of revenue on the sale of the earlier generation product based upon an estimate of the amount of product to be returned when the next-generation products are shipped to the customer. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to sales returns and could cause actual returns to differ from these estimates.

We also offer sales rebates and discounts to certain customers. We treat sales rebates and discounts as a reduction of revenue and classify the corresponding liability as current. We estimate rebates for products where there is sufficient historical information available to predict the volume of expected future rebates. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the expected rebates, we record a liability for the maximum rebate percentage offered.

Post Implant Services

We provide non-contractual services to customers to ensure the safe and effective use of certain implanted devices. Since our modified retrospective adoption of FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers on January 1, 2018, because the revenue related to the immaterial services is recognized before they are delivered, we forward accrue the costs to provide these services at the time the devices are sold. We record these costs to Selling, general and administrative expenses. We estimate the 

 51

amount of time spent by our representatives performing these services and their compensation throughout the device life to determine the service cost. Changes to our business practice or the use of alternative estimates could result in a different amount of accrued cost. Refer to Note A – Significant Accounting Policies and Note O – Revenue to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for further information on our adoption of FASB ASC Topic 606 and our revenue recognition accounting policies.

Inventory Provisions 

We base our provisions for excess, expired and obsolete inventory primarily on our estimates of forecasted net sales. A significant change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to forecasted amounts may result in recording additional provisions for excess, expired and obsolete inventory in the future. Further, the industry in which we participate is characterized by rapid product development and frequent new product introductions. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates related to excess, expired and obsolete inventory.

Valuation of Intangible Assets and Contingent Consideration Liability 

We base the fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination, including IPR&D, on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. Further, for those arrangements that involve potential future contingent consideration, we record on the date of acquisition a liability equal to the fair value of the estimated additional consideration we may be obligated to pay in the future. We re-measure this liability each reporting period and record changes in the fair value through a separate line item within our consolidated statements of operations. Increases or decreases in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability can result from changes in discount rates, periods, timing and amount of projected revenue or timing or likelihood of achieving regulatory, revenue or commercialization-based milestones. The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, discount rates, useful life or probability of achieving clinical, regulatory or revenue-based milestones could result in different purchase price allocations and recognized amortization expense and contingent consideration expense or benefit in current and future periods.

We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or adjustment to the remaining useful life. If we determine it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired based on our qualitative assessment of impairment indicators, we test the intangible asset for recoverability. If the carrying value of the intangible asset is determined not recoverable, we will write the carrying value down to fair value in the period identified. We calculate fair value of our intangible assets as the present value of estimated future cash flows we expect to generate from the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. The use of alternative assumptions, including estimated cash flows, discount rates and alternative estimated remaining useful lives could result in different calculations of impairment.

In addition, we test our indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment and reassess their classification as indefinite-lived assets, or more frequently if indicators exist. We assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that our indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired, we then determine the fair value of the intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value with the carrying value in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (FASB ASC Topic 350). If the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, we write the carrying value down to fair value. The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows and discount rates could result in different fair value estimates. 

Goodwill Valuation 

We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination to goodwill. We test our goodwill balances during the second quarter of each year for impairment, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. For our 2019, 2018 and 2017 annual impairment assessments, we identified the following reporting units: Interventional Cardiology, Peripheral Interventions, Cardiac Rhythm Management, Electrophysiology, Endoscopy, Urology and Pelvic Health and Neuromodulation. In addition, following the BTG acquisition in 2019, Specialty Pharmaceuticals was added as an additional reporting unit. We aggregated the Cardiac Rhythm Management and Electrophysiology reporting units, components of the Rhythm Management operating segment, based on the criteria prescribed in FASB ASC Topic 350. 

 52

Refer to Note A – Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details related to our annual goodwill impairment assessments performed in 2019, 2018 and 2017.

Although we use consistent methodologies in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows and discount rates could result in different fair value estimates. 

Future events that could have a negative impact on the levels of excess fair value over carrying value of our reporting units include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•decreases in estimated market sizes or market growth rates due to greater-than-expected declines in procedural volumes, pricing pressures, reductions in reimbursement levels, product actions and/or competitive technology developments, 

•declines in our market share and penetration assumptions due to increased competition, an inability to develop or launch new and next-generation products and technology features in line with our commercialization strategies and market and/or regulatory conditions that may cause significant launch delays or product recalls, 

•decreases in our forecasted profitability due to an inability to implement successfully and achieve timely and sustainable cost improvement measures consistent with our expectations, 

•negative developments in intellectual property litigation that may impact our ability to market certain products or increase our costs to sell certain products, 

•the level of success of ongoing and future research and development efforts, including those related to recent acquisitions and increases in the research and development costs necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and launch new products, 

•the level of success in managing the growth of acquired companies, achieving sustained profitability consistent with our expectations, establishing government and third-party payer reimbursement, supplying the market and increases in the costs and time necessary to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, 

•changes in our reporting units or in the structure of our business as a result of future reorganizations, acquisitions or divestitures of assets or businesses and 

•increases in our market-participant risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and increases in our market-participant tax rate and/or changes in tax laws or macroeconomic conditions.

Negative changes in one or more of these factors, among others, could result in future impairment charges.

Refer to Note C – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional details related to our annual goodwill balances.

Legal and Product Liability Accruals 

In the normal course of business, we are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings, including intellectual property, breach of contract, securities litigation and product liability suits. In some cases, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures or impact our ability to sell our products. We accrue anticipated costs of settlement, damages, losses for product liability claims and, under certain conditions, costs of defense, based on historical experience or to the extent specific losses are probable and estimable. Otherwise, we expense these costs as incurred. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the range is more likely, we accrue the minimum amount of the range. Litigation and product liability matters are inherently uncertain, and the outcomes of individual matters are difficult to predict and quantify. As such, significant judgment is required in determining our legal and product liability accruals. Our estimates related to our legal and product liability accruals may change as additional information becomes available to us, including information related to the nature or existence of claims against us, trial court or appellate proceedings, and mediation, arbitration or settlement proceedings.

 53

Income Taxes 

We establish reserves when we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves significant judgment based on individual facts, circumstances and information available in addition to applying complex tax regulations in various jurisdictions across our global operations. Under U.S. GAAP, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must determine it is more likely than not the position will be sustained, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for liabilities resulting from tax assessments by taxing authorities, positions taken by these tax authorities could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows.

As part of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017, we are subject to a territorial tax system in which we are required to establish an accounting policy in providing for tax on Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. We have elected to treat the impact of GILTI as a period cost and will be reported as a part of continuing operations. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

See Note A – Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information on standards implemented since December 31, 2018 and Note Q – New Accounting Pronouncements to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report for additional information on standards to be implemented.

Additional Information

Cybersecurity

We have established controls and procedures to escalate enterprise level issues, including cybersecurity matters, to the appropriate management levels within our organization and our Board of Directors, or members or committees thereof, as appropriate. Under our framework, cybersecurity issues are analyzed by subject matter experts and a crisis committee for potential financial, operational, and reputational risks, based on, among other factors, the nature of the matter and breadth of impact. Matters determined to present potential material impacts to the Company’s financial results, operations, and/or reputation are immediately reported by management to the Board of Directors, or individual members or committees thereof, as appropriate, in accordance with our escalation framework. In addition, we have established procedures to ensure that members of management responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of disclosure controls are informed in a timely manner of known cybersecurity risks and incidents that may materially impact our operations and that timely public disclosure is made, as appropriate. 

Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, we disclose certain non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted net income (earnings) and adjusted net income (earnings) per share that exclude certain amounts, operational net sales growth that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and adjusted free cash flow that excludes certain amounts. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered in isolation from or as a replacement for the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Further, other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, which may limit the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes.

To calculate adjusted net income (earnings) and adjusted net income (earnings) per share we exclude certain charges (credits) from GAAP net income as detailed below. Amounts are presented after-tax using our effective tax rate, unless the amount is a significant unusual or infrequently occurring item in accordance with FASB ASC section 740-270-30, "General Methodology and Use of Estimated Annual Effective Tax Rate." The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to adjusted net income is GAAP net income (loss) and the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to adjusted net income per share is GAAP net income (loss) per share. 

To calculate operational net sales, which exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we convert actual net sales from local currency to U.S. dollars using constant foreign currency exchange rates in the current and prior periods. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to operational growth rate percentages is growth rate percentages using net sales on a GAAP basis. 

 54

Adjusted free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure that excludes from free cash flow the cash component of certain charges (credits) that are also excluded from adjusted net income as well as any cash tax benefits of such charges, as detailed below. In addition, we exclude payments or refunds that relate to resolving tax disputes related to prior periods. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure that excludes net purchases of property, plant and equipment from cash provided by (used for) operating activities on a GAAP basis. The GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to adjusted free cash flow and free cash flow is cash provided by (used for) operating activities on a GAAP basis. 

Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP financial measure are included in the relevant sections of this Annual Report.

Management uses these supplemental non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate performance period over period, to analyze the underlying trends in our business, to assess our performance relative to our competitors and to establish operational goals and forecasts that are used in allocating resources. In addition, management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to further its understanding of the performance of our operating segments. The adjustments excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures are consistent with those excluded from our operating segments’ measures of net sales and profit or loss. These adjustments are excluded from the segment measures reported to our chief operating decision maker that are used to make operating decisions and assess performance.

We believe that presenting adjusted net income, adjusted net income per share that exclude certain amounts, operational net sales growth that exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and adjusted free cash flow that excludes certain amounts, in addition to the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides investors greater transparency to the information used by management for its operational decision-making and allows investors to see our results “through the eyes” of management. We further believe that providing this information assists our investors in understanding our operating performance and the methodology used by management to evaluate and measure such performance.

The following is an explanation of each of the adjustments that management excluded as part of these non-GAAP financial measures as well as reasons for excluding each of these individual items. In each case, management has excluded the item for purposes of calculating the relevant non-GAAP financial measure to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and a comparison to our past operating performance:

Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted Net Income per Share and Adjusted Free Cash Flow

•Amortization expense - We record intangible assets at historical cost and amortize them over their estimated useful lives. Amortization expense is excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and is also excluded from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance. 

•Intangible asset impairment charges - This amount represents write-downs of certain intangible asset balances during each period. We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment and test our indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment. If we determine the carrying value of the amortizable intangible asset is not recoverable or we conclude that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived asset is impaired, we will write the carrying value down to fair value in the period identified. Impairment charges are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Acquisition/divestiture-related net charges (credits) or payments - These adjustments may consist of (a) contingent consideration and Zytiga™ licensing arrangement fair value adjustments; (b) gains on previously held investments; (c) due diligence, deal fees and other fees and costs related to our acquisition and divestiture transactions; (d) inventory step-up amortization and accelerated compensation expense; (e) integration and exit costs; and (f) separation costs and gains primarily associated with the sale of a business or portion of a business. The contingent consideration and Zytiga licensing arrangement fair value adjustments represent accounting adjustments to state contingent consideration liabilities and Zytiga-related assets and liabilities at their estimated fair value. These adjustments can be highly variable depending on the assessed likelihood and amount of future contingent consideration and Zytiga royalty payments. In addition, we have sold our rights to retain any future royalties related to Zytiga. Refer to Note D - Hedging Activities and Fair Value Measurements for further information on the Zytiga licensing arrangement. Gains on previously held investments, due diligence, deal fees and other fees and costs, inventory step-up amortization, accelerated compensation expense, and other expenses and gains associated with prior and potential future acquisitions and divestitures can be highly variable and not representative of ongoing operations. Integration and exit costs, include contract cancellations, 

 55

severance and other compensation-related charges and costs, project management fees and costs, and other direct costs associated with the integration of our acquisitions. Examples of integration and exit activities include the movement of business activities; the elimination or combination of redundant roles and business processes; the consolidation or closure of facilities and legal entities; and the transfer of product lines between manufacturing facilities. These integration and exit activities take place over a defined timeframe and have a distinct project timelines, are incremental to activities and costs that arise in the ordinary course of our business and are not considered part of our core, ongoing operations. In addition, our acquisition-related charges in 2019 included expenses for instruments entered into solely for the purpose of financing or hedging the BTG Acquisition, including net interest expense and hedging expenses. Subsequent to September 30, 2019, we did not incur and will not incur any hedging gains or losses related to the BTG Acquisition, and we are not classifying any interest expense subsequent to the BTG acquisition date as an acquisition/divestiture-related item. Acquisition/divestiture-related net charges (credits) are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Restructuring and restructuring-related net charges (credits) or payments - These adjustments primarily represent compensation-related charges, fixed asset write-offs, contract cancellations, project management fees and other direct costs associated with our restructuring plans. These restructuring plans each consist of distinct initiatives that are fundamentally different from our ongoing, core cost reduction initiatives in terms of, among other things, the frequency with which each action is performed and the required planning, resourcing, cost and timing. Examples of such initiatives include the movement of business activities, facility consolidations and closures and the transfer of product lines between manufacturing facilities, which, due to the highly regulated nature of our industry, requires a significant investment in time and cost to create duplicate manufacturing lines, run product validations and seek regulatory approvals. Restructuring initiatives take place over a defined timeframe and have a distinct project timeline that begins subsequent to approval by our Board of Directors. In contrast to our ongoing cost reduction initiatives, restructuring initiatives typically result in duplicative cost and exit costs over this period of time, are one-time shut downs or transfers and are not considered part of our core, ongoing operations. These restructuring plans are incremental to the core activities that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Restructuring and restructuring-related net charges (credits) are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Litigation-related net charges (credits) or payments - These adjustments include certain significant product liability and other litigation-related charges and credits. We record these charges and credits, which we consider to be unusual or infrequent and significant, within the litigation-related charges line in our consolidated statements of operations; all other legal and product liability charges, credits and costs are recorded within selling general and administrative expenses. Litigation-related net charges (credits) are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•EU MDR implementation charges - These adjustments represent incremental costs or payments specific to complying with the new European Union Medical Device Regulation (EU MDR) for previously registered products. EU MDR is a replacement of the existing European Medical Devices Directive (MDD) regulatory framework, and manufacturers of medical devices are required to comply with EU MDR beginning in May 2020 for new product registrations and by May 2024 for medical devices which have a valid CE Certificate to the current Directives (issued before May 2020). We expect to incur significant expenditures in connection with the adoption of the EU MDR requirements and we consider the adoption of EU MDR to be a significant change to a regulatory framework, and therefore, these expenditures are not considered to be ordinary course expenditures in connection with regulatory matters. As such, these medical device regulation charges are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance. 

•Debt extinguishment net charges (credits) - These amounts relate to the early extinguishment of certain outstanding principal amounts of our senior notes in November 2019. Certain debt extinguishment net charges (credits) are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Investment impairment charges - These amounts represent write-downs relating to our investment portfolio that are considered unusual or infrequent and significant. Each reporting period, we evaluate our investments to determine if there are any events or circumstances that are likely to have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. If we identify an impairment indicator, we will estimate the fair value of the investment and compare it to its carrying 

 56

value and determine if the impairment is other-than-temporary. For other-than-temporary impairments, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between an investment’s carrying value and its fair value. Certain investment impairment charges are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Deferred tax expenses (benefits) - This adjustment relates to a $4.1 billion non-cash tax benefit arising from an intra-entity asset transfer of intellectual property completed in the fourth quarter of 2019. The effects of this transfer were excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance.

•Discrete tax items - These items represent adjustments of certain tax positions including those which a) are related to the finalization of the enactment date impact of the TCJA, or b) are related to the tax consequences of a non-GAAP adjustment item booked in a prior period. These discrete tax items are excluded from management's assessment of operating performance and from our operating segments' measures of profit and loss used for making operating decisions and assessing performance. 

Operational Net Sales Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency Fluctuations

•The impact of foreign currency fluctuations is highly variable and difficult to predict. Accordingly, management excludes the impact of foreign currency fluctuations for purposes of reviewing the net sales and growth rates to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and a comparison to our past operating performance.

Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans by Executive Officers

Periodically, certain of our executive officers adopt written stock trading plans in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act and our own Stock Trading Policy. A Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plan is a written document that pre-establishes the amount, prices and dates (or formulas for determining the amounts, prices and dates) of future purchases or sales of our stock, including shares issued upon exercise of stock options or vesting of deferred stock units. These plans are entered into at a time when the person is not in possession of material non-public information about our company. We disclose details regarding individual Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans on the Investor Relations section of our website.

 57

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

As the management of Boston Scientific Corporation, we are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. We designed our internal control process to provide reasonable assurance to management and the Board of Directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control–Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Based on our assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2019, our internal control over financial reporting is effective at a reasonable assurance level based on these criteria.

Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This report, in which they expressed an unqualified opinion, is included below.

The BTG plc Acquisition

On August 19, 2019, we announced the closing of our acquisition of BTG plc (BTG). In accordance with the SEC Staff 's interpretive guidance for newly acquired businesses, we are permitted to omit an assessment of an acquired business's internal control over financial reporting from our assessment of internal control for up to one year from the acquisition date. As such, we have excluded BTG from our annual assessment of internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, as the acquisition was completed on August 19, 2019. BTG represents less than 5% of total assets as of December 31, 2019 and less than 5% of revenues and net income, respectively, for the year then ended. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 58

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Boston Scientific Corporation 

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited Boston Scientific Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Boston Scientific Corporation (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2019 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated February 25, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

As indicated in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of BTG plc, which is included in the 2019 consolidated financial statements of the Company and constituted less than 5% of total assets as of December 31, 2019 and less than 5% of revenues and net income, respectively, for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of BTG plc.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

 59

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

February 25, 2020 

 60

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK