Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following Management Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements.

All references to years in this MD&A represent fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Refer to Note (1) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding our fiscal year end.

Information regarding our 2017 results of operations, including a year-to-year comparison against 2018, may be found in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our annual report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 29, 2018, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8, 2019.

Management Overview

Our revenues are primarily derived by selling, implementing, operating and supporting software solutions, clinical content, hardware, devices and services that give health care providers and other stakeholders secure access to clinical, administrative and financial data in real or near-real time, helping them to improve quality, safety and efficiency in the delivery of health care.

Our core strategy is to create organic growth by investing in research and development ("R&D") to create solutions and tech-enabled services for the health care industry. We may also supplement organic growth with acquisitions or strategic investments.

Cerner's long history of growth has created an important strategic footprint in health care, with Cerner holding more than 25 percent market share in the U.S. acute care EHR market and a leading market share in several non-U.S. regions. Foundational to our growth going forward is delivering value to this core client base, including executing effectively on our large U.S. federal contracts and cross-selling key solutions and services in areas such as revenue cycle. We are also investing in platform modernization, with a focus on delivering a software as a service platform that we expect to lower total cost of ownership, improve clinician experience and patient outcomes, and enable clients to accelerate adoption of new functionality and better leverage third-party innovations.

We also expect to continue driving growth by leveraging our HealtheIntent platform, which is the foundation for established and new offerings for both provider and non-provider markets. The EHR-agnostic HealtheIntent platform enables Cerner to become a strategic partner with health care stakeholders and help them improve performance under value-based contracting. The platform, along with our CareAware platform, also supports offerings in areas such long-term care, home care and hospice, rehabilitation, behavioral health, community care, care team communications, health systems operations, consumer and employer, and data-as-a-service.

Beyond our strategy for driving revenue growth, we are also focused on earnings growth. After several years of margin compression related to slowing revenue growth, increased mix of low-margin services, and lower software demand due to the end of direct government incentives for EHR adoptions, Cerner implemented a new operating structure and introduced other initiatives focused on cost optimization and process improvement in 2019. To assist in these efforts, we engaged an outside consulting firm to conduct a review of our operations and cost structure. We made good progress in 2019 and expect this progress to be reflected in improved profitability in 2020 and beyond. We are focused on ongoing identification of opportunities to operate more efficiently and on achieving the efficiencies without impacting the quality of our solutions and services and commitments to our clients.

We are also focused on delivering strong levels of cash flow which we expect to accomplish by continuing to grow earnings and prudently managing capital expenditures. We expect to use future cash flow and debt, as appropriate, to meet our capital allocation objectives, which include investing in our business, potential acquisitions or other strategic investments to drive profitable growth, and returning capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.

Results Overview

Bookings, which reflects the value of executed contracts for software, hardware, professional services and managed services, was $5.99 billion in 2019, which is a decrease of 11% compared to $6.72 billion in 2018, with the decrease primarily reflecting a more selective approach to low-margin, long-term contracts that typically represent large booking values.

26
Revenues for 2019 increased 6% to $5.69 billion, compared to $5.37 billion in 2018. The increase in revenue reflects ongoing demand from new and existing clients for Cerner's solutions and tech-enabled services driven by their needs to keep up with regulatory requirements, adapt to changing reimbursement models, and deliver safer and more efficient care.

Net earnings for 2019 decreased 16% to $529 million, compared to $630 million in 2018. Diluted earnings per share decreased 13% to $1.65 in 2019, compared to $1.89 in 2018. The overall decrease in net earnings and diluted earnings per share was primarily a result of increased operating expenses, including expenses incurred in connection with our operational improvement initiatives discussed below, partially offset by increased revenues.

We had cash collections of receivables of $5.79 billion in 2019, compared to $5.49 billion in 2018. Days sales outstanding was 72 days for the 2019 fourth quarter, compared to 74 days for the 2019 third quarter and 79 days for the 2018 fourth quarter. Operating cash flows for 2019 were $1.31 billion, compared to $1.45 billion in 2018.

Operational Improvement Initiatives

We transitioned to a new operating structure in the first quarter of 2019. The Company has been focused on leveraging the impact of this reorganization and identifying additional efficiencies. Currently, we are focused on reducing operating expenses and generating other efficiencies that are expected to provide longer-term operating margin expansion. We are also considering exiting certain low-margin businesses and being more selective as we consider new business opportunities. To assist in these efforts, we have engaged an outside consulting firm to conduct a review of our operations and cost structure. We are focused on ongoing identification of opportunities to operate more efficiently and on achieving the efficiencies without impacting the quality of our solutions and services and commitments to our clients.

In the near term, we expect to incur expenses in connection with these efforts. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to, consultant and other professional services fees, employee separation costs, contract termination costs, and other such related expenses. We recognized $221 million of expenses related to these efforts in 2019, which are included in operating expenses in our consolidated statements of operations and discussed further below. We expect to incur additional expenses in connection with these initiatives in future periods, which may be material.

Health Care Information Technology Market Outlook

We have provided an assessment of the health care information technology market under "Health Care and Health Care IT Industry" in Part I, Item 1 "Business," which is incorporated herein by reference.

27
Results of Operations

Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues & Backlog

Revenues increased 6% to $5.69 billion in 2019, as compared to $5.37 billion in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by a $181 million increase in professional services revenue due to growth in implementation activity; growth in licensed software revenue of $67 million as a result of continued demand for our solutions; and growth in managed services revenue of $59 million as a result of increased hosting services. Refer to Note (2) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding revenues disaggregated by our business models.

Backlog, which reflects contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized as revenue, was $13.71 billion at the end of 2019, compared to $15.25 billion at the end of 2018. This decrease was primarily driven by the termination of certain client contracts, discussed further below. We expect to recognize 30% of our backlog as revenue over the next 12 months.

We believe that backlog may not necessarily be a comprehensive indicator of future revenue as certain of our arrangements may be canceled (or conversely renewed) at our clients' option; thus contract consideration related to such cancellable periods has been excluded from our calculation of backlog. However, historically our experience has been that such cancellation provisions are rarely exercised. We expect to recognize $760 million of revenue over the next 12 months under currently executed contracts related to such cancellable periods, which is not included in our calculation of backlog.

Costs of Revenue

Costs of revenue as a percent of revenues were 19% in 2019, compared to 17% in 2018. The higher costs of revenue as a percent of revenues was primarily driven by higher third-party costs associated with professional services revenue.

Costs of revenue include the cost of reimbursed travel expense, sales commissions, third party consulting services and subscription content and computer hardware, devices and sublicensed software purchased from manufacturers for delivery to clients. It also includes the cost of hardware maintenance and sublicensed software support subcontracted to the manufacturers. Such costs, as a percent of revenues, typically have varied as the mix of revenue (software, hardware, devices, maintenance, support, and services) carrying different margin rates changes from period to period. Costs of revenue does not include the costs of our client service personnel who are responsible for delivering our service offerings. Such costs are included in sales and client service expense.

Operating Expenses

Total operating expenses increased 10% to $4.02 billion in 2019, compared to $3.65 billion in 2018.

28
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-Operating Items

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operations by Segment

We have two operating segments: Domestic and International (formerly referred to as Global). The Domestic segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures associated with business activity in the United States. The International segment includes revenue contributions and expenditures linked to business activity outside the United States, primarily from Australia, Canada, Europe, and the Middle East. Refer to Note (19) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our reportable segments.

The following table presents a summary of our operating segment information for the years ended 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Domestic Segment[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30
International Segment[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other, net

Operating results not attributed to an operating segment include expenses such as software development, general and administrative expenses, share-based compensation expense, certain amortization and depreciation, certain organizational restructuring and other expense. These expenses increased 15% to $1.35 billion in 2019, from $1.17 billion in 2018. The increase is primarily due to expenses incurred in 2019 in connection with our operational improvement initiatives discussed above; inclusive of $86 million of charges associated with employee separation benefits, as further discussed in Note (1) of the notes to consolidated financial statements.

The effects of inflation on our business during 2019 and 2018 were not significant.

31
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our liquidity is influenced by many factors, including the amount and timing of our revenues, our cash collections from our clients and the amount we invest in software development, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and our share repurchase and dividend programs.

Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, which primarily consist of money market funds and time deposits with original maturities of less than 90 days, short-term investments, and borrowings under our Credit Agreement. At the end of 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $442 million and short-term investments of $100 million, as compared to cash and cash equivalents of $374 million and short-term investments of $401 million at the end of 2018.

We have entered into a Credit Agreement with a syndicate of lenders that provides for an unsecured $1.00 billion revolving credit loan facility, along with a letter of credit facility up to $100 million (which is a sub-facility of the $1.00 billion revolving credit loan facility). We have the ability to increase the maximum capacity to $1.20 billion at any time during the Credit Agreement's term, subject to lender participation and the satisfaction of specified conditions. The Credit Agreement expires in May 2024. As of the end of 2019, we had outstanding revolving credit loans and letters of credit of $600 million and $30 million, respectively; which reduced our available borrowing capacity to $370 million under the Credit Agreement. Refer to Note (10) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our Credit Agreement and other sources of debt financing.

We believe that our present cash position, together with cash generated from operations, short-term investments and, as appropriate, remaining availability under our Credit Agreement and other sources of debt financing, will be sufficient to meet anticipated cash requirements during 2020.

The following table summarizes our cash flows in 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash from Operating Activities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash flows from operations decreased $141 million in 2019 compared to 2018, due primarily to net refunds of taxes in 2018 along with cash payments in 2019 associated with our operational improvement initiatives discussed above. Days sales outstanding was 72 days in the fourth quarter of 2019, compared to 74 days for the third quarter of 2019 and 79 days for the fourth quarter of 2018.

32
Cash from Investing Activities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of capital spending, investment, and acquisition activities.

Our capital spending in 2019 was driven by capitalized equipment purchases primarily to support growth in our managed services business, investments in a cloud infrastructure to support cloud-based solutions, building and improvement purchases to support our facilities requirements and capitalized spending to support our ongoing software development initiatives. Total capital spending in 2019 exceeded 2018 levels, primarily driven by spending to support our facilities requirements, including the continued construction of our Innovations Campus (office space development located in Kansas City, Missouri). Capital purchases are expected to decrease in 2020, primarily driven by the expected completion of construction on the current phases of our Innovations Campus in the first half of 2020.

Short-term investment activity historically consists of the investment of cash generated by our business in excess of what is necessary to fund operations. The 2019 and 2018 activity is impacted by excess cash being used to execute on our capital allocation strategy, including the share repurchases and cash dividends discussed below. Additionally, our investment mix has changed such that our funds are more heavily held in cash and cash equivalents versus short-term and long-term investments, primarily due to interest rates currently available on cash deposits.

On July 27, 2018, we acquired a minority interest in Essence Group Holdings Corporation for cash consideration of $266 million. Refer to Note (4) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding this investment.

In October 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding membership interests of AbleVets, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company ("AbleVets"). AbleVets is a health IT engineering and consulting company specializing in cybersecurity, cloud and system development solutions for federal organizations. Consideration for the acquisition was cash of $75 million. Refer to Note (8) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding this business acquisition.

We expect to continue seeking and completing strategic business acquisitions, investments, and relationships that are complementary to our business.

Cash from Financing Activities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In May 2019, we borrowed $600 million of revolving credit loans under the Credit Agreement. In March 2018, we repaid our $75 million floating rate Series 2015-C Notes due February 15, 2022. Refer to Note (10) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our outstanding indebtedness.

33
We expect to incur additional indebtedness in the next 12 months, for which the amount and timing is yet to be determined. The proceeds from such indebtedness are expected to be deployed in accordance with our current capital allocation strategy, which may include share repurchases and dividend payments (as discussed further below), as well as for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and investments. The terms and availability of such debt financing may be impacted by economic and financial market conditions, as well as our financial condition and results of operations at the time we seek such financing, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such financing on terms that will be acceptable or advantageous to us.

Cash inflows from stock option exercises are dependent on a number of factors, including the price of our common stock, grant activity under our stock option and equity plans, and overall market volatility. We expect net cash inflows from stock option exercises to continue in 2020 based on the number of exercisable options at the end of 2019 and our current stock price. Refer to Note (16) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our stock option and equity plans.

During 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 18.8 million and 11.2 million shares, respectively, of our common stock for total consideration of $1.30 billion and $644 million, respectively. As of December 28, 2019, $1.68 billion remains available for repurchase under our current repurchase program. We expect to continue to repurchase shares under this program in the next 12 months, but such repurchases will be dependent on a number of factors, including the price of our common stock and other cash flow needs. Although we expect to continue to repurchase shares, there is no assurance that we will repurchase up to the full amount remaining under the program.

In 2019, our Board of Directors declared three separate cash dividends of $0.18 per share on our issued and outstanding common stock. Subject to declaration by our Board of Directors, we expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends as a part of our current capital allocation strategy. Future dividends will be subject to the determination, declaration and discretion of our Board of Directors and compliance with covenants under our outstanding debt agreements.

The source of funds for such repurchases and dividends may include cash generated from operations, liquidation of investment holdings, and the incurrence of indebtedness. Refer to Note (16) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our share repurchase and dividend programs.

Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free cash flow decreased $166 million in 2019, compared to 2018, primarily due to a decrease in cash from operations along with increased capital expenditures. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure used by management, along with GAAP results, to analyze our earnings quality and overall cash generation of the business, and for management compensation purposes. We define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities reduced by capital purchases and capitalized software development costs. The table above sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow to cash flows from operating activities, which we believe is the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to free cash flow. The presentation of free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation, nor as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results, and investors should be aware that non-GAAP measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow may also be different from similar non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and may not be comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation. We believe free cash flow is important to enable investors to better understand and evaluate our ongoing operating results and allows for greater transparency in the review and understanding of our overall financial, operational and economic performance, because free cash flow takes into account certain capital expenditures necessary to operate our business.

34
Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

The following table represents a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at the end of 2019, except short-term purchase order commitments arising in the ordinary course of business.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) At the end of 2019, liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits were $19 million.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Refer to Note (10) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding our interest rate swap agreement, which is accounted for as a cash flow hedge in accordance with ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. LIBOR is scheduled to be phased out by the end of 2021. When LIBOR ceases to exist, we will need to agree upon a replacement index with the lenders under our Credit Agreement at the time, and such new rates may not be as favorable to us as those in effect prior to any LIBOR phase-out. If the swap and the Credit Agreement replacement rates are not identical, our hedge could be less effective.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Note (1) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.

Critical Accounting Policies

We believe that there are several accounting policies that are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies affect the reported amount of revenue and other significant areas involving our judgments and estimates. These significant accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, software development, and income taxes. These accounting policies and our procedures related to these accounting policies are described in detail below and under specific areas within this MD&A. In addition, Note (1), Note (2), and Note (14) of the notes to consolidated financial statements expands upon discussion of our accounting policies for these areas.

Revenue Recognition

In the first quarter of 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASU 2014-09, as amended, replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. This guidance requires a significant amount of judgments and estimates in implementing its five-step process to be followed in determining the amount and timing of revenue recognition and related disclosures. Refer to Note (2) of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding significant judgments involved in our application of ASU 2014-09.

Software Development Costs

Costs incurred internally in creating computer software solutions and enhancements to those solutions are expensed until completion of a detailed program design, which is when we determine that technological feasibility has been established. Thereafter, all software development costs are capitalized until such time as the software solutions and enhancements are available for general release, and the capitalized costs subsequently are reported at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value.

35
Net realizable value is computed as the estimated gross future revenues from each software solution less the amount of estimated future costs of completing and disposing of that product. Because the development of projected net future revenues related to our software solutions used in our net realizable value computation is based on estimates, a significant reduction in our future revenues could impact the recovery of our capitalized software development costs. If we missed our estimates of net future revenues by 10%, the amount of our capitalized software development costs would not be impaired.

Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and expected net future revenue for each software solution with minimum annual amortization equal to the straight-line amortization over the estimated economic life of the software solution. We are amortizing capitalized costs over five years. The five-year period over which capitalized software development costs are amortized is an estimate based upon our forecast of a reasonable useful life for the capitalized costs. Historically, use of our software programs by our clients has exceeded five years and is capable of being used a decade or more.

We expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and systems integrators and others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive products or services. The pace of change in the HCIT market is rapid and there are frequent new product introductions, product enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, the capitalized software solutions may become less valuable or obsolete and could be subject to impairment.

Income Taxes

We make a number of assumptions and estimates in determining the appropriate amount of expense to record for income taxes. These assumptions and estimates consider the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate as well as current tax regulations. Accruals are established for estimates of tax effects for certain transactions, business structures and future projected profitability of our businesses based on our interpretation of existing facts and circumstances. If these assumptions and estimates were to change as a result of new evidence or changes in circumstances, the change in estimate could result in a material adjustment to the consolidated financial statements.

We have discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure contained herein.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.