PART I.

Item 1. Business.

Overview

Cerner Corporation started doing business as a Missouri corporation in 1980 and was merged into a Delaware corporation in 1986. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this report to "Cerner," the "Company," "we," "us" or "our" mean Cerner Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Our corporate world headquarters is located in a Company-owned office park in North Kansas City, Missouri, with our principal place of business located at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri 64117. Our telephone number is 816.221.1024. Our Web site, which we use to communicate important business information, can be accessed at: www.cerner.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on or through this Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Cerner is a leading supplier of health care information technology ("HCIT") solutions and tech-enabled services. Our mission is to relentlessly seek breakthrough innovation that will shape health care of tomorrow. We offer a wide range of intelligent solutions and tech-enabled services that support the clinical, financial and operational needs of organizations of all sizes. Cerner® solutions and services help clinicians make care decisions and assist organizations in managing the health of their populations. The Company also offers integrated clinical and financial systems to help manage day-to-day revenue functions, as well as a wide range of services to support clinical, financial and operational needs.

Cerner solutions are offered on the unified Cerner Millennium® architecture and on the HealtheIntent® cloud-based platform. Cerner Millennium is a person-centric computing framework, which includes integrated clinical, financial and management information systems. This architecture allows providers to securely access an individual's electronic health record ("EHR") at the point of care, and it organizes and proactively delivers information to meet the specific needs of physicians, nurses, laboratory technicians, pharmacists, front- and back-office professionals and consumers. Our HealtheIntent platform is a cloud-based platform designed to scale at a population level while facilitating health and care at a person and provider level. On the HealtheIntent platform, we offer solutions that aggregate, transform and reconcile data across the continuum of care, enabling key stakeholders to manage the health of populations, improve outcomes and lower costs. Cerner also has an EHR agnostic platform, CareAware®, that facilitates connectivity of health care devices to EHRs, allowing for more efficient and effective care.

On February 2, 2015, Cerner acquired the Health Services business from Siemens AG, which offered a portfolio of enterprise-level clinical and financial health care information technology solutions, as well as departmental, connectivity, population health, and care coordination solutions globally.

We offer a broad range of tech-enabled services, including implementation and training, remote hosting, operational management services, revenue cycle services, support and maintenance, health care data analysis, clinical process optimization, transaction processing, employer health centers, employee wellness programs and third-party administrator services for employer-based health plans.

In addition to software and services, we offer a wide range of complementary hardware and devices, both directly from Cerner and as a reseller for third parties.

1
The following table presents consolidated revenues by our business models and by segment, as a percentage of total revenues:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A description of our business models is as follows:

•Licensed software - We develop and license intellectual property ("IP") (our architectures, application software, executable and referential knowledge, data and algorithms) to our clients. Our licensed software business model includes revenues from IP delivered via perpetual license and software as a service, where functionality is delivered via "the cloud".

•Technology resale - We bundle licensed software with other companies' IP in the form of sublicenses to create complete technology solutions for our clients. We also resell bundled computer equipment (hardware) from technology companies to create a completely functional system. Additionally, we resell medical devices for a growing list of medical device companies.

•Subscriptions - Another method by which we provide IP is on a time-based subscription model that has a periodic usage charge. This is the primary way we package and provide medical knowledge, which changes frequently based on research and can be updated independently from the software in which it is embedded. Also included in this category of revenue is our Electronic Data Interchange ("EDI") transaction revenue. EDI is the electronic transfer of data between health care providers and payers.

•Professional services - We provide a wide range of professional services to assist our clients in the implementation of our information systems in their organizations. These services are in the form of project management, technical and application expertise, clinical process optimization, regulatory consulting and education and training of our clients' workforce to assist in the design and implementation of our systems. This business model also includes certain outsourcing services utilized by health care organizations.

•Managed services - Our managed services business model includes revenues from remote hosting, application management services, operational management services, and disaster recovery. Remote hosting is the largest of these offerings, and it involves Cerner buying the necessary equipment, installing it in one of our data centers, and operating the entire system on the client's behalf.

•Support and maintenance - This business model is comprised of the ongoing support and maintenance services we provide our clients. Almost all of our clients contract for these services. Clients with support contracts get 24x7 access to our immediate response center, which serves as our "emergency room," as well as access to our SolutionWorks organization for less urgent issues. In addition, our clients' support payments give them ongoing access to the latest releases of our IP. We also provide support for sublicensed software and maintenance for third party hardware.

2
•Reimbursed travel - Includes reimbursable out-of-pocket expenses (primarily travel) incurred in connection with our client service activities.

Health Care and Health Care IT Industry

There are several major forces shaping health care worldwide.

•Rising Health Care Costs - Health care costs continue to rise above the rate of inflation, with total health care expenditures increasing 4.6% to $3.6 trillion in 2018, representing 18% of the U.S. Gross Domestic Product ("GDP"). Health expenditures are expected to grow at approximately 5% over the next decade, which would bring them to nearly 20% of GDP. Similar growth trends exist in most major non-U.S. markets as well. We believe this trajectory is unsustainable and that health care IT can play an important role in facilitating a shift from a high-cost health care system that incents volume to a proactive system that incents health, quality and efficiency.

•Industry Consolidation - The number of health care providers turning to mergers, acquisitions and partnerships has surged. On a 15-year basis the percentage of hospitals functioning under a health system rather than operating independently increased from approximately 50% to approximately 65%. Today, over 70% of hospitals are operating as part of a health system rather than independently. This consolidation trend has also included the outpatient setting as health systems are seeking to build out health networks within defined Metropolitan Statistical Areas ("MSAs"). 

•Evolving Reimbursement - With the full enactment of The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("ACA"), Medicaid expansion in more than three-quarters of all states, and the aging population driving Medicare growth, the government is playing an increasingly material role in U.S. health care economics. The implications for providers include increased regulatory requirements for payment at less favorable terms than commercial payers. This reality has exacerbated an already tough margin profile and is expected to be the new normal for the years to come. Provider organizations are also dealing with an ongoing shift to value-based reimbursement models through programs like the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act ("MACRA") and Bundled Payment Care Initiative, which change the way that Medicare rewards clinicians for value over volume. These reforms, over time, could materially change provider economics.

•Consumer Expectations - Increased out-of-pocket expense and technology utilization outside health care have contributed to rising consumer expectations on cost, convenience and service. This growing consumerism has increased the political focus on rising drug prices, surprise medical bills, and escalating premiums, highlighting the importance of having comprehensive strategies for engaging consumers. 

•Cognitive Computing - Today, health care is principally digitized across the core clinical, operational and financial settings. However, while workflows have been digitized, business processes remain largely unautomated and the industry has yet to realize the benefits of digitization achieved in other industries. Cognitive computing represents a meaningful opportunity to leverage the digitization that now exists in health care to improve efficiency and quality, and we believe Cerner is well positioned to play a key role in helping the health care industry achieve this potential.

For the core provider market, many of these forces are contributing to an overall challenging macro environment. Providers are simultaneously seeking to grow key service lines, drive operational efficiencies to make money at Medicare rates, and build out the competencies required to take and effectively manage risk and participate in value-based reimbursement models. Information technology is seen as an enabler of these efforts, which represents an opportunity for Cerner. At the same time, the low-margin nature of provider businesses can make it difficult to fund required investment, making it important for solutions and services to have a clear return on investment.

Cerner Vision and Growth Strategy

Throughout our history, Cerner has focused on creating innovation at the intersection of health care and information technology. Our vision has long been to create a Health Network Architecture ("HNA") for providers of care in every community. HNA has four core pillars: automate the care process; connect the person; structure, store and study the data; and then 'close the loop' by pushing analytic insights back into the care process. The base digitization that now exists in health care is foundational to achieving this vision, and we believe it can be achieved in the decade to come.

Our framework for growth as we work towards achieving our long-term vision includes three core areas. 

First, we are focused on delivering in our core market, including executing effectively on our large U.S. federal contracts, continuing to enhance key solution areas, such as revenue cycle, that are important to existing clients and represent revenue 

3
growth opportunities, and aligning with our provider clients to help them increase revenue in key service lines, tackle margin compression and optimize their reimbursement dollars. In addition, we are investing in platform modernization, with a focus on delivering a software as a service platform that we expect to lower total cost of ownership, improve clinician experience and patient outcomes, enable clients to accelerate adoption of new functionality, and better leverage third-party innovations. These efforts, in collaboration with Amazon Web Services, can differentiate Cerner and position our installed client base to better manage the forces of change playing out in health care.

Second, we are continuing work towards advancing the HNA vision that has driven Cerner almost since its inception. We believe that through the creation of a cohesive architecture for health care, the walls between care centers will become transparent as information travels seamlessly between care settings. Data collected at one setting will be available to others across the country, ensuring every individual in every part of the care process is connected to the right knowledge, resources and persons at the appropriate time and place. We believe the coming decade is the window when the confluence of technology, data liquidity and business model shifts can make this vision a reality. Health systems are increasingly building network strategies within specific MSAs to enhance contracting power, increase patient stickiness and move closer to the premium dollar. Cerner has an opportunity to become a strategic partner and assist with network design, provide services in areas such as cybersecurity and operational reporting, and improve performance under value-based contracting. Cerner's HealtheIntent platform was purpose-built as a cloud-based, EHR-agnostic platform that enables these efforts. HealtheIntent is also foundational to our offerings in other areas that represent growth opportunities for Cerner. These include provider market offerings, such long-term care, home care and hospice, rehabilitation, behavioral health, community care, care team communications, and health systems operations, as well as consumer and employer offerings.

Third, Cerner has an opportunity to grow by becoming a trusted source of curated health data. This opportunity is also supported by our HealtheIntent platform. While this opportunity is nascent, Cerner has natural points of differentiation, including our proximity to the data given that our technology assets are in place in more than a quarter of U.S. health care facilities, and our proven ability to aggregate and normalize multiple sources of data through our HealtheIntent platform, which contains data from more than 249 million longitudinal records.

The early returns have been positive. We have made progress in the pharma and life sciences space with our HealtheDataLabsSM offering and our collaboration with the Duke Clinical Research Institute, which is focused on creating opportunities for clinical trial participation within Cerner's client base. There also is good traction in our HealtheHistorySM business, which provides record retrieval for life insurance, legal and other administrative use cases.

Cerner expects to build on this early success and continue creating information-based solutions that reinvent traditional health care businesses, allow our customers to better serve their markets and ultimately change lives. We believe the data space not only represents a material addressable market beyond Cerner's traditional provider base, but that it is also consistent with, and a compelling advancement of, the vision of personalized medicine that animated the original thinking around HNA.

Importantly, Cerner's health data strategy is based on curating data from a willing and engaged network of providers with an emphasis on clear boundaries around the usage of patient data and based on clearly defined use cases with clarity and transparency around data rights.

In summary, we believe Cerner's core value proposition remains strong and there is ample opportunity to grow through the areas discussed above. As Cerner drives these areas of growth, we expect a strong and dynamic competitive landscape, ranging from startups to mega-cap companies that are attracted to the substantial addressable markets across health care. Success will require entrepreneurial scale. We will have to move faster and be nimbler than the mega-caps, while also leveraging our advantages of size and experience that venture-backed startups lack.

Contracting with the Government

As we grow our federal business, revenue attributable to prime contracts or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government is becoming a bigger contributor to our overall revenue. Within the U.S. government, our revenues are diversified across various agencies, including the Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. During 2019, more than 10% of our total revenues were attributable to our relationships (as the prime contractor or a subcontractor) with U.S. government agencies. Contracting with the U.S. government subjects us to substantial regulation and unique risks, including the U.S. government's ability to cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. government. Government cancellation terms typically permit the recovery of all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed prior to termination when the U.S. government issues a termination for convenience. These regulations and risks are described in more detail below under "Risk Factors" in this annual report on Form 10-K.

4
Software Development

We commit significant resources to developing new health information system solutions and services. As of the end of 2019, approximately 7,300 associates were engaged in research and development activities. Total expenditures for the development and enhancement of our software solutions were $784 million, $747 million and $706 million during the 2019, 2018 and 2017 fiscal years, respectively. These figures include both capitalized and non-capitalized portions and exclude amounts amortized for financial reporting purposes.

As discussed above, continued investment in R&D remains a core element of our strategy. This will include ongoing enhancement of our core solutions and development of new solutions and services.

Intellectual Property

We have a broad portfolio of intellectual property rights to protect the proprietary interests in our solutions, services, devices and brands. Our solutions constitute works of authorship protected by copyrights in the U.S. and globally. We own valuable trade secrets embodied in, or related to, our solutions, services and devices and protect these rights through a number of technical and legal measures. We have registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks in a number of countries with particular emphasis on the Cerner branding elements. We continue to develop our patent portfolio and own more than 500 issued patents with hundreds of patent applications pending. We do not consider any of our businesses to be dependent upon any one patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, or any family or families of the same.

Our solutions, devices and services incorporate or rely on intellectual property rights licensed from third parties, including software subject to open source software licenses. Certain technologies licensed to Cerner are also important for internal use in running our business and supporting our clients. Although replacing any existing licenses could be inconvenient, based on our experiences, existing contractual relationships, and the incentives of our technology suppliers, we believe that Cerner will continue to obtain these technologies or suitable alternatives for commercially reasonable prices on commercially reasonable terms or under open source software licenses acceptable to Cerner.

Managing Cybersecurity Risks

Our business operations, including the provision of the solutions and services described above, involve the compilation, hosting and transmission of confidential information, including patient health information. We have included security features in our solutions and services that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of this information, but our solutions and services may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors and other similar disruptive problems. Cerner maintains documented information privacy, security and risk management programs with clearly defined roles, responsibilities, policies, and procedures which are designed to secure the information maintained on Cerner's platforms.

In addition, all of our associates are required to complete annual cybersecurity education and training, which includes identifying suspicious emails, Internet threats, telecommunication threats and ransomware. Cerner regularly reviews and modifies its security program to reflect changing technology, regulatory environment, laws, risk, industry and security practices and other business needs. We believe our policies and procedures are adequate to ensure that relevant information about cybersecurity risks and incidents is appropriately reported and disclosed.

Sales and Marketing

The markets for Cerner HCIT solutions, health care devices and services include integrated delivery networks, physician groups and networks, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical centers, free-standing reference laboratories, home health agencies, blood banks, imaging centers, pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, employers, governments and public health organizations. The majority of our sales are clinical and revenue cycle solutions and services to hospitals and health systems, but our solutions and services are highly scalable and sold to organizations ranging from physician practices, to community hospitals, to complex integrated delivery networks, to local, regional and national government agencies. Sales to large health systems typically take approximately nine to 18 months, while the sales cycle is often shorter when selling to smaller hospitals and physician practices.

Our executive marketing management is located at our world headquarters in Kansas City, Missouri, while our client representatives are deployed across the United States and globally. In addition to the United States, through our subsidiaries, we have sales associates and/or offices giving us a presence in more than 35 countries.

We support our sales force with technical personnel who perform demonstrations of Cerner solutions and services and assist clients in determining the proper hardware and software configurations. Our primary direct marketing strategy is to generate 

5
sales contacts from our existing client base and through presentations at industry seminars and tradeshows. We market our ambulatory solutions, offered on a subscription basis, directly to the physician practice market using lead generation activities and through existing acute care clients that are looking to extend Cerner solutions to affiliated physicians. We attend a number of major tradeshows each year and sponsor executive user conferences, which feature industry experts who address the HCIT needs of large health care organizations.

Backlog

Backlog, which reflects contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized as revenue, was $13.71 billion as of December 28, 2019, of which we expect to recognize approximately 30% as revenue over the next 12 months.

We believe that backlog may not necessarily be a comprehensive indicator of future revenue as certain of our arrangements may be canceled (or conversely renewed) at our clients' option; thus contract consideration related to such cancellable periods has been excluded from our calculation of backlog. However, historically our experience has been that such cancellation provisions are rarely exercised. We expect to recognize $760 million of revenue over the next 12 months under currently executed contracts related to such cancellable periods, which is not included in our calculation of backlog.

Competition

The market for HCIT solutions, devices and services is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. We offer a suite of intelligent solutions and services that support the clinical, financial and operational needs of organizations of all sizes. The principle markets in which we compete include, without limitation, health care software solutions, HCIT services, ambulatory, health care device and technology resale, health care revenue cycle and transaction services, value-based care technologies, analytics systems, care management solutions, population health management, and post-acute care. Our principal existing competitors, including their affiliates, in these markets include, but are not limited to:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies, managed care companies, healthcare insurance companies, accountable care organizations and others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or services. The pace of change in the HCIT market is rapid and there are frequent new software solutions, devices or services introductions, enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets include the breadth and quality of solution and service offerings, the stability of the solution provider, the features and capabilities of the information systems and devices, the ongoing support for the systems and devices and the potential for enhancements and future compatible software solutions and devices. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on the basis of these factors and that we are the leader- or among the leaders- in each of our main offerings. Our brand recognition and reputation for innovative technology and service delivery, combined with our breadth of solution and services offerings, global distribution channels and client relationships position us as a strong competitor going forward.

Number of Employees (Associates)

At the end of 2019, we employed approximately 27,400 associates worldwide. 

6
Information about our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other information regarding the Company's executive officers as of January 28, 2020. Officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Brent Shafer was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors effective February 1, 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Shafer served as Chief Executive Officer of Philips North America, a health technology company and the North American division of Koninklijke Philips N.V. ("Philips") since February 2014. In that position, Mr. Shafer led an organization of 17,000 employees and oversaw a health technology portfolio that included a broad range of solutions and services covering patient monitoring, imaging, clinical informatics, sleep and respiratory care as well as a group of market-leading consumer-oriented brands. For 12 years, Mr. Shafer played a key role in helping Philips develop and strengthen its health care focus, increase its profitability and grow its market share. Prior to his most recent position, Mr. Shafer served as Chief Executive Officer of the global Philips' Home Healthcare Solutions business, a home healthcare services provider with 6,000 employees, from May 2010 until May 2014, as Chief Executive Officer of the North America region for Royal Philips Electronics from January 2009 until May 2010, and as president and Chief Executive Officer of the Healthcare Sales and Service business for Philips North America from May 2005 until May 2010. Prior to joining Philips, Mr. Shafer served in various senior leadership positions with other companies, including Hill-Rom Company Inc., GE Medical Systems, and Hewlett-Packard.

Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010.

John Peterzalek joined the Company in 2003 as President, Cerner South East and has held a variety of business and client leadership roles since that time, including Senior Vice President, East Region, a title which he held from 2007 to 2014 when he was named Senior Vice President, Client Relationships. He was promoted to Executive Vice President, Client Relationships in April 2017 and Executive Vice President, Worldwide Client Relationships in October 2017. He held the title of Executive Vice President, Worldwide Client Relationships until September 2018 when he was named Executive Vice President and Chief Client Officer. As Chief Client Officer, Mr. Peterzalek focuses on driving value, innovation and results to Cerner's clients globally and leads the corporate direction for revenue generation, solution strategy, business development, and marketing.

Tracy L. Platt joined the Company in July 2019 as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Platt spent nearly 10 years in executive HR roles at Medtronic Plc, a global health care company that develops and distributes medical devices. More specifically, Ms. Platt was Vice President, Human Resources, Medtronic from September 2009 to July 2019. Ms. Platt brings health care experience from Medtronic and other key organizations, including Cardinal Health and GE Healthcare. Her most recent role at Medtronic included HR leadership for its global operations organization and driving an operating model transformation throughout the enterprise.

Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2011, and Executive Vice President in April 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland Industries, Inc. for three years where he last served as Associate General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in-house legal counsel at The Marley Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General Counsel when he left to join Farmland.

Donald Trigg serves as Executive Vice President, Strategic Growth. He originally joined the Company in 2002 as Vice President, Corporate Positioning. He has held multiple roles during his time at the Company, including Chief Marketing Officer 

7
from 2003 to 2007, General Manager for the Kansas City region from 2006-2007, Managing Director for the United Kingdom and Ireland from 2008-2010 and Senior Vice President and President, Cerner Health Ventures from 2012-2018. From 2010-2012, Mr. Trigg served as Chief Revenue Officer at CodeRyte, Inc prior to its acquisition by 3M's healthcare division. Mr. Trigg also spent more than a decade serving in the public policy space as a senior advisor for the 2000 Bush for President campaign in Austin, TX, the Director of Policy at the U.S. Department of Commerce and in a series of senior policy roles in the U.S. House and U.S. Senate.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.