PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Citizens Financial Group, Inc. is the 14th largest retail bank holding company in the United States.(1) Headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island, we offer a broad range of retail and commercial banking products and services to more than five million individuals, small businesses, middle-market companies, large corporations and institutions. Our products and services are offered through approximately 1,100 branches in 11 states in the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions and approximately 135 retail and commercial non-branch offices, though certain lines of business serve national markets. At December 31, 2019, we had total assets of $165.7 billion, total deposits of $125.3 billion and total stockholders’ equity of $22.2 billion. 

We are a bank holding company incorporated under Delaware state law in 1984 and whose primary federal regulator is the FRB. On January 2, 2019, we consolidated our banking subsidiaries via a merger of CBPA into CBNA in order to streamline governance and enterprise risk management, improve CBNA’s risk profile and gain operational efficiencies. CBNA is our primary subsidiary and sole banking subsidiary, whose primary federal regulator is the OCC.

Business Segments 

We manage our business through two reportable business operating segments: Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. For additional information regarding our business segments see the “Business Operating Segments” section of Item 7 and Note 25 in Item 8. Our activities outside these segments are classified as “Other” and include treasury activities, wholesale funding activities, securities portfolio, community development assets and other unallocated assets, liabilities, capital, revenues, provision for credit losses and expenses, including income tax expense. The Other classification also includes the financial impact of non-core, liquidating loan portfolios and other non-core assets and liabilities. For a description of non-core assets see the “Allowance for Credit Losses and Nonperforming Assets” section of Item 7. 

The following table presents selected financial information for our business operating segments, Other and consolidated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consumer Banking Segment 

Consumer Banking serves retail customers and small businesses with annual revenues of up to $25 million, with products and services that include deposit products, mortgage and home equity lending, credit cards, business loans, wealth management and investment services largely across our 11-state traditional banking footprint. We also offer auto loans, education loans, unsecured loans and product financing in addition to select digital deposit products nationwide.

Consumer Banking operates a multi-channel distribution network with a workforce of approximately 5,700 branch colleagues, approximately 1,100 branches, including about 290 in-store locations, and approximately 2,700 ATMs. Our network includes approximately 1,325 specialists covering lending, savings and investment needs as well as a broad range of small business products and services. We serve customers on a national basis through telephone service centers as well as through our online and mobile platforms where we offer customers the convenience of depositing funds, paying bills and transferring money between accounts and from person to person, as well as a host of other everyday transactions.

(1) According to SNL Financial as of September 30, 2019. Based on subsequent peer merger activity. 

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 6

We believe our strong retail deposit market share in our core regions, which have relatively diverse economies and affluent demographics, is a competitive advantage. As of June 30, 2019, we ranked second by retail deposit market share in the New England region and ranked in the top five in nine of our ten principal MSAs.(1) 

The following table presents information regarding our competitive position in our principal MSAs:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Source: FDIC, June 2019. Principal MSAs determined by total retail branch count. Deposits capped at $500 million per branch. Includes banks, savings banks and thrifts. Excludes “non-retail banks” as defined by SNL Financial. The scope of “non-retail banks” is subject to the discretion of SNL Financial, but typically includes: industrial bank and non-depository trust charters, institutions with more than 20% brokered deposits (of total deposits), institutions with more than 20% credit card loans (of total loans), institutions deemed not to broadly participate in the banking services market and other nonretail competitor banks. Due to deposit cap, Citizens Access® retail deposits excluded from MSA deposits statistics.

Commercial Banking Segment 

Commercial Banking primarily serves companies and institutions with annual revenues of over $25 million to more than $3.0 billion and strives to be our clients’ trusted advisor and preferred provider for their banking needs. We offer a broad complement of financial products and solutions, including lending and leasing, deposit and treasury management services, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity risk management solutions, as well as loan syndications, corporate finance, merger and acquisition, and debt and equity capital markets capabilities.

Commercial Banking is structured along business lines and product groups. The business lines, Corporate Banking and Commercial Real Estate, and the product groups, Corporate Finance & Capital Markets, and Treasury Solutions work in teams to understand client needs and provide comprehensive solutions to meet those needs. We acquire new clients through a coordinated approach to the market, leveraging deep industry knowledge in specialized banking groups and a geographic coverage model.

Corporate Banking serves middle market commercial and industrial clients with annual gross revenues of $25 million to $500 million, and mid-corporate clients with annual revenues of $500 million to more than $3.0 billion in the United States. In several areas, such as Healthcare, Technology, Aerospace and Defense, and Franchise Finance, we offer a more dedicated and tailored approach to better meet the unique needs of these client segments. 

Commercial Real Estate provides customized debt capital solutions for middle market operators, institutional developers, investors, and REITs. Commercial Real Estate provides financing for projects primarily in the office, multi-family, industrial, retail, healthcare and hospitality sectors.

The Corporate Finance & Capital Markets serves clients through key product groups including Corporate Finance, Capital Markets, and Global Markets. Corporate Finance provides advisory services to middle market and mid-corporate clients, including mergers and acquisitions and capital structure advice. The team works closely with industry-sector specialists within debt capital markets to advise our clients. Corporate Finance also provides acquisition and follow-on financing for new and recapitalized portfolio companies of key sponsors, services meeting the unique and time-sensitive needs of private equity firms, management companies and funds, and underwriting and portfolio management expertise for leveraged transactions and relationships. Capital Markets originates, structures and underwrites multi-bank syndicated credit facilities targeting middle market, mid-corporate and private equity sponsors with a focus on offering value-added ideas to optimize their capital structures, including advising on and facilitating mergers and acquisitions, valuations, tender offers, financial restructurings, asset sales,

 (1) According to SNL Financial.

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 7

divestitures and other corporate reorganizations and business combinations. Global Markets provides foreign exchange, interest rate and commodities risk management services.

The Treasury Solutions product group supports Commercial Banking and certain small business clients with treasury management solutions, including domestic and international products and services related to receivables, payables, information reporting and liquidity management as well as commercial credit cards and trade finance.

Business Strategy

Our mission is to help each of our customers, colleagues and communities reach their potential, and our vision is to become a top-performing bank distinguished by our customer-centric culture, mindset of continuous improvement, and excellent capabilities. We strive to understand customers and targeted client needs, so we can tailor advice and solutions to help make them more successful. Our business strategy is designed to maximize the full potential of our businesses, drive sustainable growth, and enhance profitability. Our success rests on our ability to distinguish ourselves as follows:

Maintain a high-performing, customer-centric organization: To accomplish this, we continually strive to enhance our “customer-first” culture in order to deliver the best possible banking experience. Recently, we launched a new company-wide branding campaign ‘Made Ready,’ which is centered around our focus on delivering personalized and distinctive experiences. For colleagues, we are taking talent management to the next level, with a goal of attracting, developing and retaining great people, while ensuring strong leadership, teamwork, and a sense of empowerment, accountability and urgency. 

Develop differentiated value propositions to acquire, deepen, and retain core customer segments: We have focused on certain customer segments where we believe we are well positioned to compete. In Consumer Banking, we focus on serving mass affluent and affluent customers, and small business customers. In Commercial Banking, we focus on serving customers in the middle market, mid-corporate, and certain industry vertical areas. By developing differentiated and targeted value propositions, we believe we can attract new customers, deepen relationships with existing customers, and deliver an enhanced customer experience. 

Build excellent capabilities designed to help us stand out from competitors: Across our businesses we strive to deliver seamless, multi-channel experiences that allow customers to interact with us when, where and how they choose. We continue to build out enhanced data analytics and capabilities to provide timely, insight-driven, tailored advice in order to deliver solutions to consumer and business customers throughout their lifecycles. We are also focused on expanding our digital capabilities and related strategies in order to satisfy rapidly changing customer preferences.

Operate with financial discipline and a mindset of continuous improvement to self-fund investments: We believe that continued focus on operational efficiency is critical to future profitability and ability to continue to reinvest to drive future growth. We launched the first Tapping our Potential (“TOP”) initiative in 2014 and have launched additional programs in each subsequent year. The programs are designed to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and competitiveness of the franchise. In the second half of 2019, we launched the sixth TOP program, which is a multi-year program consisting of traditional TOP initiatives (similar in nature to prior programs), and a Transformation Program designed to redefine how we operate across the organization and deliver for customers and colleagues.

Prudently grow and optimize our balance sheet: We operate with a strong balance sheet with regard to capital, liquidity and funding, coupled with a well-defined and prudent risk appetite. We continue to focus on thoughtfully growing our balance sheet and strive to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns by actively managing capital and resource allocation decisions through balance sheet optimization initiatives. Our goal is to be good stewards of our resources, and we continue to rigorously evaluate our execution.

Modernize our technology and operational models to improve delivery, organizational agility and speed to market: We are continuing to modernize our technology and operating models to improve our speed-to-market, deliver innovative products and services, strengthen collaboration across teams, and meet financial objectives. We will also continue to engage in FinTech partnerships that help deliver differentiated value-added digital experiences for customers.

Embed risk management within our culture and operations: Given that the quality of our risk management program directly affects our ability to execute our strategy we continue to work to further strengthen our risk management culture. Moreover, we are committed to continuously enhancing our processes and talent, and to making improvements in the platform including ongoing investments in risk technology and frameworks. These actions are designed to support and bolster our risk management capabilities and regulatory profile.

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 8

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our branch footprint is in the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions, though certain lines of business serve national markets. Within these markets we face competition from community banks, super-regional and national financial institutions, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, hedge funds and private equity firms. Some of our larger competitors may make available to their customers a broader array of products, pricing and structure alternatives while some smaller competitors may have more liberal lending policies and processes. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The ability of non-banking financial institutions, including FinTech companies, to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has also intensified competition.

In Consumer Banking, the industry has become increasingly dependent on and oriented toward technology-driven delivery systems, permitting transactions to be conducted through telephone, online and mobile channels. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-bank institutions to attract funds and provide lending and other financial products and services. The emergence of digital-only banking models has increased and we expect this trend to continue. Given their lower cost structure, these models are often, on average, able to offer higher rates on deposit products than retail banking institutions with a traditional branch footprint. The primary factors driving competition for loans and deposits are interest rates, fees charged, tailored value propositions to different customer segments, customer service levels, convenience, including branch locations and hours of operation, and the range of products and services offered. 

In Commercial Banking, there is intense competition for quality loan originations from traditional banking institutions, particularly large regional banks, as well as commercial finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including CLO managers, hedge funds and private equity firms. Some larger competitors, including certain national banks that compete in our market area, may offer a broader array of products and due to their asset size, may sometimes be in a position to hold more exposure on their own balance sheet. We compete on a number of factors including providing innovative corporate finance solutions, quality of customer service and execution, range of products offered, price and reputation.

Regulation and Supervision

Our operations are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination under federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations cover all aspects of our business, including lending practices, deposit insurance, customer privacy and cybersecurity, capital adequacy and planning, liquidity, safety and soundness, consumer protection and disclosure, permissible activities and investments, and certain transactions with affiliates. These laws and regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole and not for the protection of shareholders or other investors. The discussion below outlines the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We and our subsidiaries are subject to examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, FINRA and various state insurance and securities regulators. In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, and such actions may restrict or limit our activities or activities of our subsidiaries. As part of our regular examination process, regulators may advise us to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. We have periodically received requests for information from regulatory authorities at the federal and state level, including from banking, securities and insurance regulators, state attorneys general, federal agencies or law enforcement authorities, and other regulatory authorities, concerning our business practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. For a further discussion of how regulatory actions may impact our business, see Item 1A “Risk Factors.” For additional information regarding regulatory and supervisory matters, see Note 24 in Item 8.

Overview

We are a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. We have elected to be treated as a financial holding company under amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act as effected by GLBA. As such, we are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the Bank Holding Company Act and the regulations of the FRB, including through the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Under the system of “functional regulation” established under the Bank Holding Company Act, the FRB serves as the primary regulator of our 

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 9

consolidated organization, and the SEC serves as the primary regulator of our broker-dealer and investment advisory subsidiaries and directly regulates the activities of those subsidiaries, with the FRB exercising a supervisory role.

The federal banking regulators have authority to approve or disapprove mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. These banking regulators also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. Federal law governs the activities in which CBNA engages, including the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of available credit that it may grant to one borrower. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its operations. The actions the FRB takes to implement monetary policy also affect CBNA.

In addition, CBNA is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the CFPB with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. The CFPB has broad authority to regulate the offering and provision of consumer financial products by depository institutions, such as CBNA, with more than $10 billion in total assets. The CFPB may promulgate rules under a variety of consumer financial protection statutes, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.

Tailoring of Prudential Requirements

In October 2019, the FRB and the other federal banking regulators finalized rules that tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards to bank holding companies and depository institutions to implement the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act of 2018 (“EGRRCPA”) amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act (“Tailoring Rules”). The Tailoring Rules assign each U.S. bank holding company with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as well as its bank subsidiaries, to one of four categories based on its size and five other risk-based indicators: 

i.cross-jurisdictional activity, 

ii.weighted short-term wholesale funding (“wSTWF”), 

iii.non-bank assets, 

iv.off-balance sheet exposure, and 

v.status as a U.S. globally systematically important bank.

Under the Tailoring Rules, we are subject to “Category IV standards,” which apply to banking organizations with at least $100 billion in total consolidated assets that do not meet any of the thresholds specified for Categories I through III. Accordingly, Category IV firms, such as us,

i.are no longer subject to any LCR requirement (or in certain cases, are subject to reduced requirements),

ii.remain not subject to advanced approaches capital requirements, 

iii.remain eligible to opt-out of the requirement to recognize most elements of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in regulatory capital, 

iv.remain not subject to the supplementary leverage ratio, 

v.remain not subject to the countercyclical capital buffer, 

vi.are no longer subject to company-run stress testing requirements, 

vii.became subject to supervisory stress testing on a biennial instead of annual basis, 

viii.remain subject to requirements to develop and maintain a capital plan on an annual basis, and 

ix.remain subject to certain liquidity risk management and risk committee requirements.

We discuss other elements of the Tailoring Rules where relevant below. The liquidity requirements are described below under “—Liquidity Requirements,” and their stress testing requirements are described below under “—Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements.” In addition, the resolution planning requirements implemented by the FRB and FDIC are described below under “—Resolution Planning.”

Many of the provisions of the EGRRCPA and other laws are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. The ultimate effects of EGRRCPA and the Tailoring Rules on us and our activities will be subject to any additional rule making issued by the FRB and other federal regulators. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes in law and any new regulations promulgated, including changes 

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 10

in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others.

Financial Holding Company Regulation

The Bank Holding Company Act generally restricts bank holding companies from engaging in business activities other than banking, managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for subsidiaries and activities that the FRB has determined to be closely related to banking. For so long as they continue to meet the eligibility requirements for financial holding company status, financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of activities, including securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are determined by the FRB, in coordination with the Treasury Department, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or that the FRB determines unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. In addition, a financial holding company may conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB.

As noted above, we currently have elected to be treated as a financial holding company under amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act as effected by GLBA. To maintain financial holding company status, a financial holding company and all of its insured depository institution subsidiaries must remain well capitalized and well managed (as described below under “Federal Deposit Insurance Act”), and maintain a CRA rating of at least “Satisfactory” (see “Community Reinvestment Act Requirements” below). If a financial holding company ceases to meet the capital and management requirements, the FRB’s regulations provide that the financial holding company must enter into an agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. Until the financial holding company returns to compliance, the FRB may impose limitations or conditions on the conduct of its activities, and the company may not commence any of the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or acquire a company engaged in such financial activities without prior approval of the FRB. In addition, the failure to meet such requirements could result in other material restrictions on the activities of the financial holding company, may also adversely affect the financial holding company’s ability to enter into certain transactions, including acquisition transactions, or obtain necessary approvals in connection therewith, and may result in the bank holding company losing financial holding company status. Any restrictions imposed on our activities by the FRB may not necessarily be made known to the public. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, which period may be extended, the FRB may require the financial holding company to divest its subsidiary depository institutions or to discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a bank holding company electing to be treated as a financial holding company. If any insured depository institution subsidiary of a financial holding company fails to maintain a CRA rating of at least “Satisfactory,” the financial holding company would be subject to restrictions on certain new activities and acquisitions. Bank holding companies and banks must also be both well capitalized and well managed in order to acquire banks located outside their home state.

Capital

The U.S. Basel III rules apply to us. These rules establish risk-based and leverage capital requirements. The risk-based requirements are based on a banking organization’s risk-weighted assets, also known as RWA, which reflect the organization’s on- and off-balance sheet exposures, subject to risk weights. The leverage requirements are based on a banking organization’s average consolidated on-balance sheet assets. For more detail on our regulatory capital, see the “Capital and Regulatory Matters” section of Item 7.

We calculate RWA using the standardized approach and have made the one-time election to opt-out of AOCI. As a result, we are not required to recognize in regulatory capital the impacts of net unrealized gains and losses included within AOCI for debt securities that are available for sale or held to maturity, accumulated net gains and losses on cash flow hedges and certain defined benefit pension plan assets.

Under the U.S. Basel III rules, the minimum capital ratios are:

•4.5% CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets;

•6.0% tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 capital plus additional tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets;

•8.0% total capital (that is, tier 1 capital plus tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 11

•4.0% tier 1 capital to total average consolidated assets as defined under U.S. Basel III Standardized approach (known as the “leverage ratio”).

The U.S. Basel III rules also impose a capital conservation buffer (“CCB”) of 2.5% on top of each of the three minimum risk-weighted asset ratios listed above. Banking institutions that fail to meet the effective minimum ratios with the CCB taken into account will be subject to constraints on capital distributions, including dividends and share repurchases, and certain discretionary executive compensation. The severity of the constraints depends on the amount of the shortfall and the institution’s “eligible retained income”, defined as four quarter trailing net income, net of distributions and tax effects not reflected in net income. For more details, see the “Capital and Regulatory Matters” section of Item 7. 

In April 2018, the FRB issued a proposal designed to create a single, integrated capital requirement by combining the quantitative assessment of firms’ capital plans with the CCB requirement. Details of this proposal are discussed under “—Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements” below. Although the proposal, if adopted, would change the way in which the minimum capital ratios are calculated, firms would continue to be subject to progressively more stringent constraints on capital actions as they approach the minimum ratios. 

We are also subject to the FRB's risk-based capital requirements for market risk. See the “Market Risk” section of Item 7.

In July 2019, the FRB and the other federal banking regulators issued a final rule to simplify regulatory capital treatment for MSRs, certain DTAs and significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, pursuant to EGRRCPA. Effective for us on April 1, 2020, the final rule will change the individual CET1 deduction threshold for these assets from 10% to 25%, eliminate the aggregate deduction threshold for these assets of 15%, assign a 250% risk weight for any MSRs or DTAs not deducted from CET1 capital, and assign an exposure category risk weight for investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions not deducted from CET1 capital.

Liquidity Requirements

The Federal banking regulators have adopted the Basel III-based U.S. LCR rule, which is a quantitative liquidity metric designed to ensure that a covered bank or bank holding company maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets to cover expected net cash outflows over a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario. As noted above, under the Tailoring Rules, Category IV firms with less than $50 billion in wSTWF, including us, are no longer subject to any LCR requirement. 

The Basel III framework also includes a second liquidity standard, the NSFR, which is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. In May 2016, the federal banking regulators issued a proposed rule that would implement the NSFR for large U.S. banking organizations. Under the 2016 proposal, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets but that are not advanced approaches bank holding companies, including us, would have been subject to a modified, less stringent NSFR requirement. Although the NSFR has not been finalized, it is expected that the framework for applying any finalized NSFR will be consistent with the approach for the LCR requirement under the Tailoring Rules.

Finally, per the liquidity rules included in the FRB’s enhanced prudential standards adopted pursuant to Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act (referred to above under “—Tailoring of Prudential Requirements”), we are also required to maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs for 30 days. Under the Tailoring Rules, the liquidity buffer requirements continue to apply to Category IV firms, such as us, and remain subject to liquidity risk management requirements. However, these requirements are now tailored such that we required to: 

i.calculate collateral positions monthly, as opposed to weekly; 

ii.establish a more limited set of liquidity risk limits than was previously required; and 

iii.monitor fewer elements of intraday liquidity risk exposures than were previously monitored.

We are also now subject to liquidity stress testing quarterly, rather than monthly, and are required to report liquidity data on a monthly basis.

 Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements

Under the final Tailoring Rules implementing the EGRRCPA, Category IV firms with $100 billion to $250 billion in total assets, including us, are no longer required to conduct and publicly disclose results of the company-run stress tests and are subject to supervisory stress testing on a two-year rather than an annual basis. Category IV firms continue to be subject to the requirement to submit an annual capital plan that must be reviewed and approved 

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 12

by the firm’s Board of Directors (or one of its committees) at least annually, as well as FR Y-14 reporting requirements. In connection with the final Tailoring Rules, the FRB noted that it intends to propose changes to the capital plan rule, including providing firms subject to Category IV standards additional flexibility to develop their annual plans.

 In February 2019, the FRB provided relief to a number of BHCs with assets between $100 billion and $250 billion in assets, including us, from certain regulatory requirements related to supervisory stress testing and company-run stress testing, and related disclosure requirements for the 2019 stress test cycle. As a result, we were not required to participate in the supervisory stress test or CCAR, conduct company-run stress tests, or submit a capital plan to the FRB for 2019. As required, we submitted our planned capital actions for the period beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020 to the FRB. Consistent with the FRB authorization, our planned capital actions for the four quarters ending June 30, 2020 are largely based on the results for our 2018 supervisory stress test, adjusted for any changes in our regulatory capital ratios since the FRB acted on our 2018 capital plan. We are required to submit a capital plan to the FRB on or before April 5, 2020.

As noted above, the FRB’s April 2018 proposal to create a single, integrated capital requirement by combining the quantitative assessment of CCAR with the CCB requirement would, if adopted, replace the current static 2.5% CCB with a firm-specific stress capital buffer (“SCB”) requirement. The SCB, subject to a minimum of 2.5%, would reflect stressed losses in the supervisory severely adverse scenario of the FRB’s supervisory stress tests and would also include four quarters of planned common stock dividends. The proposal would also introduce a stress leverage buffer (“SLB”) requirement, similar to the SCB, which would apply to the Tier 1 leverage ratio. In addition, the proposal would eliminate the quantitative objection provisions of CCAR but would require a bank holding company to reduce its planned capital distributions if those distributions would not be consistent with the applicable capital buffer constraints based on the bank holding company’s own baseline scenario projections. The FRB is reconsidering several aspects of the SCB proposal, including the four-quarter dividend add-on, the SLB requirement, year-to-year volatility and alignment with the two-year supervisory stress testing cycle for Category IV bank holding companies. As is currently the case, under the proposal, a bank holding company subject to CCAR would generally not be permitted to exceed the capital distributions reflected in its capital plan either on a gross basis or net of capital issuances without prior approval of the FRB.

Resolution Planning

Under Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by EGRRCPA, certain bank holding companies must submit a periodic resolution plan to the FRB and FDIC providing for the company’s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial distress or failure. We submitted our most recent resolution plan to the FRB and FDIC in December 2016. However, in October 2019, in connection with the release of the Tailoring Rules, the FRB and FDIC issued final rules which adjusted the scope and applicability of the agencies’ resolution planning requirements. Under these new rules, Category IV bank holding companies, such as us, are no longer required to submit resolution plans.

The FDIC has separately implemented a resolution planning rule that currently requires insured depository institutions of $50 billion or more in total assets, such as CBNA, to periodically submit a resolution plan. In April 2019, the FDIC released an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding potential changes to its resolution planning requirements for insured depository institutions, such as CBNA, and the next round of insured depository institution resolution plan submissions will not be required until the rulemaking process is complete. CBNA submitted its most recent resolution plan to the FDIC in July 2018.

Standards for Safety and Soundness

The FDIA requires the FRB, OCC and FDIC to prescribe operational and managerial standards for all insured depository institutions, including CBNA. The agencies have adopted regulations and interagency guidelines that set forth the safety and soundness standards used to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If an agency determines that a bank fails to satisfy any standard, it may require the bank to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance, consistent with deadlines for the submission and review of such safety and soundness compliance plans. If, after being notified to submit a compliance plan, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the FDIA. See “Federal Deposit Insurance Act” below. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 13

Federal Deposit Insurance Act

The FDIA requires, among other things, that the federal banking regulators take “prompt corrective action” with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements, as described above in “Capital.” The FDIA sets forth the following five capital categories: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital category depends upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and certain other factors that are established by regulation. The federal banking regulators must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions that are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized, with the actions becoming more restrictive and punitive the lower the institution’s capital category. Under existing rules, an institution that is not an advanced approaches institution is deemed to be “well capitalized” if it has a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5%, a tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, a total capital ratio of at least 10%, and a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%.

The FDIA’s prompt corrective action provisions only apply to depository institutions and not to bank holding companies. The FRB’s regulations applicable to bank holding companies separately define “well capitalized” for bank holding companies to require maintaining a tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6% and a total capital ratio of at least 10%. As described above under “—Financial Holding Company Regulation”, a financial holding company that is not well-capitalized and well-managed (or whose bank subsidiaries are not well capitalized and well managed) under applicable prompt corrective action standards may be restricted in certain of its activities and ultimately may lose financial holding company status. As of December 31, 2019, the Parent Company and CBNA were well-capitalized. 

The FDIA prohibits insured banks from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in the bank’s normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless it is “well-capitalized,” or it is “adequately capitalized” and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is “adequately capitalized” and that accepts brokered deposits under a waiver from the FDIC may not pay an interest rate on any deposit in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market rates. The FDIA imposes no such restrictions on a bank that is “well-capitalized.”

Deposit Insurance

The FDIA requires CBNA to pay deposit insurance assessments. FDIC assessment rates for large institutions are calculated based on one of two scorecards. One for most large institutions that have more than $10 billion in assets and another for “highly complex” institutions that have over $50 billion in assets and are fully owned by a parent with over $500 billion in assets. Each scorecard has a performance score and a loss-severity score that are combined to produce a total score, which is translated into an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC utilizes the CAMELS ratings and forward-looking financial measures to assess an institution’s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the scorecard. The total score is then translated to an initial base assessment rate on a non-linear, sharply-increasing scale.

The deposit insurance assessment is calculated based on average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. Deposit insurance assessments are also affected by the minimum reserve ratio with respect to the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). The FDIA established a minimum reserve ratio of the DIF of 1.15% prior to September 2020 and 1.35% thereafter. As of September 30, 2019, the reserve ratio of the DIF reached 1.41%.

Dividends

Various federal statutory provisions and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that we and our subsidiaries may pay.

Our payment of dividends to our stockholders is subject to the oversight of the FRB. In particular, the FRB reviews the dividend policies and share repurchases of a large bank holding company based on capital plans submitted as part of the CCAR process and on the results of stress tests, as discussed above. In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the FRB’s non-objection to such planned distributions included in our submitted capital plan or the FRB’s authorization to make distributions if we are exempt from the requirement to submit a capital plan. See “—Capital” and “—Capital Planning and Stress Testing Requirements” above.

Dividends payable by CBNA, as a national bank subsidiary, are limited to the lesser of the amount calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net 

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 14

income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, less any required transfers to surplus, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of the entity’s “undivided profits” (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus). Federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements that provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings. 

Support of Subsidiary Bank

Under Section 616 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which codifies the FRB’s long-standing “source of strength” doctrine, the Parent Company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for our depository institution subsidiary. The statute defines “source of financial strength” as the ability to provide financial assistance in the event of the financial distress at the insured depository institution. The FRB may require that the Parent Company provide such support at times even when the Parent Company may not have the financial resources to do so, or when doing so may not serve our interests or those of our shareholders or creditors. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and related FRB rules, including Regulation W, restrict CBNA from extending credit to, or engaging in certain other transactions with, the Parent Company and its non-bank subsidiaries. These restrictions place limits on certain specified “covered transactions” between bank subsidiaries and their affiliates, which must be limited to 10% of a bank’s capital and surplus for any one affiliate and 20% for all affiliates. Furthermore, within the foregoing limitations as to amount, certain covered transactions must meet specified collateral requirements ranging from 100% to 130%. Covered transactions are defined to include, among other things, a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the FRB) from the affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, derivatives transactions and securities lending transactions where the bank has credit exposure to an affiliate, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. All covered transactions, including certain additional transactions (such as transactions with a third party in which an affiliate has a financial interest), must be conducted on market terms. The FRB enforces these restrictions and we are audited for compliance.

Section 23B prohibits an institution from engaging in certain transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. Transactions between a bank and any of its subsidiaries that are engaged in certain financial activities may be subject to the affiliated transaction limits. The FRB also may designate banking subsidiaries as affiliates.

Pursuant to FRB Regulation O, we are also subject to quantitative restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their related interests. In general, such extensions of credit may not exceed certain dollar limitations, must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties and must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Certain extensions of credit also require the approval of our Board.

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 15

Volcker Rule

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in, sponsoring and having certain relationships with private funds such as hedge funds or private equity funds that would be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 but for the exclusions in sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that act, both subject to certain limited exceptions. The statutory provision is commonly called the “Volcker Rule.” The regulations implementing the Volcker Rule, jointly issued by the FRB, OCC, FDIC, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), require that large bank holding companies design and implement compliance programs to ensure adherence to the Volcker Rule’s prohibitions. Maintenance and monitoring of the required compliance program requires the expenditure of resources and management attention. In October 2019, the FRB, OCC, FDIC, CFTC and SEC issued final rules that tailor the application of the Volcker Rule based on the size and scope of a banking entity’s trading activities and clarify and amend certain definitions, requirements and exemptions. These regulators have also stated their intention to engage in further rulemaking with respect to the implementing regulations relating to covered funds, including potential changes to the definition of “covered fund” and prohibitions on certain covered transactions. 

Consumer Financial Protection Regulations

The retail activities of banks are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include, but are not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Service Members Civil Relief Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, and their respective federal regulations and state law counterparts.

In addition to these federal laws and regulations, the guidance and interpretations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such regulations also influences loan and deposit operations.

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory, examination and enforcement authority over various consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB also has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, including the authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products.

The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and in certain circumstances, allows state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. State regulation of financial products and potential enforcement actions could also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Protection of Customer Personal Information and Cybersecurity

The privacy provisions of GLBA generally prohibit financial institutions, including us, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to opt out of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes. Both the Fair Credit Reporting Act and Regulation V, issued by the FRB, govern the use and provision of information to consumer reporting agencies.

The federal banking regulators regularly issue guidance regarding cybersecurity intended to enhance cyber risk management standards among financial institutions. Financial institutions are expected to design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers’ accessing internet-based services of the financial institution. Further, a financial institution’s management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution’s operations after a cyber-attack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution or its critical service providers fall victim to this type of cyber-attack. If we fail to observe the regulatory guidance, we could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties. For a further discussion of risks related to cybersecurity, see Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

In October 2016, federal regulators jointly issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cyber risk management standards that are intended to increase the operational resilience of large and interconnected entities under their supervision. Once established, the enhanced cyber risk management standards would help to 

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 16

reduce the potential impact of a cyber-attack or other cyber-related failure on the financial system. The advance notice of proposed rulemaking addresses five categories of cyber standards: 

i.cyber risk governance; 

ii.cyber risk management; 

iii.internal dependency management; 

iv.external dependency management; and 

v.incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. 

We will continue to monitor any developments related to this proposed rulemaking.

State regulators have also been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have adopted laws and regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act, which became effective on January 1, 2020, gives new rights to California residents to require certain businesses to disclose or delete their personal information. In addition, many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. We expect this trend of state-level activity to continue, and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which we operate. 

Community Reinvestment Act Requirements

The CRA requires banking regulators to evaluate the Parent Company and CBNA in meeting the credit needs of our local communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate- income neighborhoods. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institution’s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution and assign ratings. The regulatory agency’s assessment of the institution’s record is made available to the public. These evaluations are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility and, in the case of a bank holding company that has elected financial holding company status, a CRA rating of at least “satisfactory” is required to commence certain new financial activities or to acquire a company engaged in such activities. CBNA received a rating of “outstanding” in our most recent CRA evaluation. 

In December 2019, the OCC and FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking intended to clarify which activities qualify for CRA credit, update where activities count for CRA credit, create a more transparent and objective method for measuring CRA performance and provide for more transparent, consistent, and timely CRA-related data collection, recordkeeping, and reporting. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes to the regulations implementing the CRA.

Compensation

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the FRB and the OCC. The federal banking regulators have issued guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations take into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound practices. The guidance sets forth the following three key principles with respect to incentive compensation arrangements: 

i.the arrangements should provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; 

ii.the arrangements should be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and

iii.the arrangements should be supported by strong corporate governance. 

The guidance provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated, as appropriate, into the organization’s supervisory ratings.

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 17

The U.S. financial regulators, including the FRB, the OCC and the SEC, jointly proposed regulations in 2011 and again in 2016 to implement the incentive compensation requirements of Section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act. These regulations have not been finalized.

Anti-Money Laundering

The USA PATRIOT Act, enacted in 2001 and renewed in 2006, substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. Institutions must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. We are prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence in dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. We also must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions. Recent laws provide law enforcement authorities with increased access to financial information maintained by banks.

The USA PATRIOT Act also provides for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering. The statute also creates enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening, promulgating rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering, requiring reports by non-financial trades and businesses filed with the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) for transactions exceeding $10,000 and mandating the filing of suspicious activities reports if a bank believes a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations. The statute also requires enhanced due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non-U.S. persons. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications.

FinCEN drafts regulations implementing the USA PATRIOT Act and other anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act legislation. FinCEN has adopted rules that require financial institutions to obtain beneficial ownership information with respect to legal entities with which such institutions conduct business, subject to certain exclusions and exemptions. Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on anti-money laundering compliance, and we continue to monitor and augment, where necessary, our anti-money laundering compliance programs.

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation

The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control. The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, they contain one or more of the following elements: 

i.restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and 

ii.a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. 

OFAC publishes, and routinely updates, lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, including the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. We are responsible for, among other things, blocking accounts of and transactions with, such targets and countries, prohibiting unlicensed trade and financial transactions with them and reporting blocked transactions after their occurrence. If we find a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, we must freeze such account, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.

  Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 18

Regulation of Broker-Dealers

Our subsidiary CCMI is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and subject to regulation and examination by the SEC as well as FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. These regulations cover a broad range of issues, including capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record-keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non-public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker-dealers.

Heightened Risk Governance Standards

CBNA is subject to OCC guidelines imposing heightened risk governance standards on large national banks with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The guidelines set forth minimum standards for the design and implementation of a bank’s risk governance framework, and minimum standards for oversight of that framework by a bank’s board of directors. The guidelines are intended to protect the safety and soundness of covered banks and improve bank examiners’ ability to assess compliance with the OCC’s expectations. Under the guidelines, a bank may use its parent company’s risk governance framework if the framework meets the minimum standards, the risk profiles of the parent company and the covered bank are substantially the same, and certain other conditions are met. CBNA has elected to use the Parent Company’s risk governance framework. A bank’s board of directors is required to have two members who are independent of the bank and parent company management. A bank’s board of directors is responsible for ensuring that the risk governance framework meets the standards in the guidelines, providing active oversight and a credible challenge to management’s recommendations and decisions and ensuring that the parent company decisions do not jeopardize the safety and soundness of the bank.

 Intellectual Property

In the highly competitive banking industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names and logos are important to the success of our business. We own and license a variety of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and pending registrations and are spending significant resources to develop our stand-alone brands.

 Employees 

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 18,000 full-time equivalent employees. None of our employees are parties to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced interruptions of operations due to labor disagreements. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS