Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Executive Summary

Cognizant is one of the world’s leading professional services companies, transforming clients’ business, operating and technology models for the digital era. Our services include digital services and solutions, consulting, application development, systems integration, application testing, application maintenance, infrastructure services and business process services. Digital services have become an increasingly important part of our portfolio, aligning with our clients' focus on becoming data-enabled, customer-centric and differentiated businesses. We tailor our services and solutions to specific industries with an integrated global delivery model that employs client service and delivery teams based at client locations and dedicated global and regional delivery centers.

In 2019, we initiated the execution of a multi-year plan aimed at accelerating revenue growth. As part of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan, we have refined our strategic focus and launched a series of measures designed to improve our operational and commercial models and implement cost reductions.

We are aligning our strategic posture with our clients' needs to become more data-enabled, customer-centric and differentiated businesses. We are planning to invest significantly in technology, sales and marketing, talent re-skilling, acquisitions and partnerships to further sharpen our strategic positioning in key digital areas - IoT, AI, digital engineering and cloud, while working to maintain and optimize our core portfolio of services through efficiency, tooling and automation, delivery optimization, protection of renewals, industry alignment and geographic expansion. To support our strategy, we are increasing our investment in sales and marketing professionals to help us expand existing accounts and acquire new ones, and amplify our brand's stature in the marketplace. In addition, in January 2020, we introduced a new, more variable sales compensation structure that rewards our teams for selling the entire portfolio of our services and offerings. Further, we have improved the alignment of our sales professionals and client support personnel with our client accounts, based on the size and scope of the existing relationship as well as the potential for account expansion and growth.

The refinement of our strategic posture also highlighted that certain content-related work is not in line with our strategic vision for the Company. This work is largely focused on determining whether certain content violates client standards - and can involve objectionable materials. As part of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan, we intend to exit this work over the course of the next year while our other content-related work will continue. We anticipate that this decision may negatively impact our relationship with the affected clients and estimate that we may lose revenues of $225 million to $255 million on an annualized basis within our Communications, Media and Technology segment in North America. We anticipate revenues will ramp down over the next one to two years and the impact on 2020 revenues is expected to be between $180 million and $200 million. In the meantime, we will comply with our contractual obligations and determine the best mutual path forward with the small number of affected clients.

The 2020 Fit for Growth Plan also involves certain measures, which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2019, to simplify our organizational model and optimize our cost structure in order to partially fund the investments required to execute on our strategy and advance our growth agenda. In 2019, we incurred $48 million of employee separation, retention and facility exit costs under this plan, including $5 million of costs related to our exit from certain content-related services. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. We expect to incur additional charges in the range of $100 million to $150 million in 2020, primarily related to severance and facility exit costs, under our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan. The optimization measures under this plan are expected to generate an annualized gross savings run rate, before anticipated investments, in the range of approximately $500 million to $550 million. The cost savings realized in 2020 is expected to be lower than the annualized run rate. 

18

Table of Contents 

2019 Financial Results

The following table sets forth a summary of our financial results for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During the year ended December 31, 2019, revenues increased by $658 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, representing growth of 4.1%, or 5.2% on a constant currency basis1. Revenues from clients added during 2019, including those related to acquisitions, were $234 million.

The following charts set forth revenues and revenue growth by business segment and geography for the year ended December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financial Services: Revenues in our Financial Services segment increased in our Europe region primarily due to Samlink revenues, while decreasing in our North America and Rest of World regions as certain banking clients continue to transition the support of some of their legacy systems and operations in-house or to captives. 

1 Constant currency revenue growth, Adjusted Income From Operations and Adjusted Diluted EPS are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, as applicable.

19

Table of Contents 

Healthcare: Revenues from our Healthcare segment increased in our Europe and Rest of World regions, primarily due to revenues from our life sciences clients, including revenues from our acquisition of Zenith. Revenues in our North America region were negatively impacted by mergers within the healthcare industry, the establishment of an offshore captive by a large client, the Customer Dispute and a ramp down of a client relationship in which we were a subcontractor to a third party for the purpose of delivering healthcare-related systems implementation services to local government, partially offset by growth among our life sciences clients in this region. Revenue growth among our life sciences clients was driven by demand for our digital operations services and solutions.

Products and Resources: Revenue growth in our Products and Resources segment was primarily driven by our clients' adoption and integration of digital technologies and revenues from our recently completed acquisitions.

Communications, Media and Technology: Revenue growth in our Communications, Media and Technology segment was strongest in our North America region and was primarily driven by the demand from our technology clients for digital content services and solutions and revenues from our recently completed acquisitions. As previously noted, our decision to exit certain content-related services will affect future revenue growth in this segment.

In 2017, we began a realignment program with the objective of improving our client focus, our cost structure and the efficiency and effectiveness of our delivery while continuing to drive revenue growth. Under our realignment program, in 2019, we incurred $22 million of Executive Transition Costs, $64 million in employee separation costs, $45 million in employee retention costs and $38 million in third party realignment costs. We anticipate that the employee separations completed as part of our realignment program will reduce our compensation expense by approximately $140 million on an annualized basis. We expect to incur $17 million of additional realignment charges related to our retention program in the first half of 2020.

On a combined basis with our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan described above, during the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred $217 million in restructuring charges reported in the caption "Restructuring charges" in our consolidated statements of operations.

Our operating margin and Adjusted Operating Margin2 decreased to 14.6% and 16.6%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2019 from 17.4% and 18.1%, respectively for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decreases in our operating margin and Adjusted Operating Margin2 were due to an increase in costs related to our delivery personnel (including employees and subcontractors) outpacing revenue growth, the dilutive impact of our recently completed acquisitions, contract renegotiations with recently merged Healthcare clients and the Customer Dispute, partially offset by the benefit of lower incentive-based compensation accrual rates. Our 2019 GAAP operating margin was additionally negatively impacted by the incremental accrual related to the India Defined Contribution Obligation as described in Note 15 and higher restructuring charges while our 2018 GAAP operating margin was negatively impacted by the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation.

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we returned $2,609 million to our stockholders through $2,156 million in share repurchases and $453 million in dividend payments. Our shares outstanding decreased to 548 million as of December 31, 2019 from 577 million as of December 31, 2018. We review our capital return plan on an on-going basis, considering our financial performance and liquidity position, investments required to execute our strategic plans and initiatives, acquisition opportunities, the economic outlook, regulatory changes and other relevant factors. As these factors may change over time, the actual amounts expended on stock repurchase activity, dividends and acquisitions, if any, during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time. 

Other Matters

We accrued $117 million in 2019 related to the India Defined Contribution Obligation as described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. It is possible that the Indian government will review the matter and there is a substantial question as to whether the Indian government will apply the Supreme Court’s ruling on a retroactive basis. As such, the ultimate amount of our obligation may be materially different from the amount accrued. 

We are involved in an ongoing dispute with the ITD described in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. The dispute with the ITD is currently pending and no final decision has been reached. 

2 Adjusted Operating Margin is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

20

Table of Contents 

2020 Business Outlook

In 2020, we expect growing demand from our clients for digital services as they invest to transform into data-enabled, customer-centric and differentiated businesses. As our clients continue their efforts to optimize the cost of supporting their legacy systems and operations, our core portfolio of services may be subject to pricing pressure and lower demand as clients look to transition certain work in-house or to new or existing captives.

Our clients will likely continue to contend with industry-specific changes driven by evolving digital technologies, uncertainty in the regulatory environment, industry consolidation and convergence as well as international trade policies and other macroeconomic factors, which could affect their demand for our services. Client demand may also be impacted by uncertainty related to the potential economic and regulatory effects of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. Additionally, revenue from our technology clients will be affected by our strategic decision to exit certain content-related work under our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan. 

We expect our 2020 financial results to be impacted by the initial cost optimization measures executed in 2019 as part of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan, and the expected execution of additional measures under this plan in 2020. In addition, our 2020 results may be impacted by uncertainty regarding regulatory changes, including potential regulatory changes with respect to immigration and taxes as well as costs related to the potential resolution of legal and regulatory matters discussed in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements.

During 2020, we intend to continue to invest in our digital capabilities, our talent base and new service offerings across industries and geographies, while increasing our investment in sales and marketing professionals to help us expand existing accounts and acquire new ones. We will continue to pursue strategic acquisitions that we believe add new technologies or platforms that complement our existing services, improve our overall service delivery capabilities or expand our geographic presence. Additionally, we will continue to focus on maintaining and optimizing our core portfolio of services through efficiency, tooling and automation, delivery optimization, protection of renewals, industry alignment and geographic expansion. Finally, through the execution of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan and other initiatives, we will focus on operating discipline in order to appropriately manage our cost structure.

Business Segments

Our reportable segments are: 

•Financial Services, which consists of our banking and insurance operating segments;

•Healthcare, which consists of our healthcare and life sciences operating segments;

•Products and Resources, which consists of our retail and consumer goods; manufacturing, logistics, energy, and utilities; and travel and hospitality operating segments; 

•Communications, Media and Technology, which includes our communications and media operating segment and our technology operating segment.

The services we provide are distributed among a number of clients in each of our business segments. A loss of a significant client or a few significant clients in a particular segment could materially reduce revenues for that segment. The services we provide to our larger clients are often critical to their operations and a termination of our services would typically require an extended transition period with gradually declining revenues. Nevertheless, the volume of work performed for specific clients may vary significantly from year to year.

In 2019, we made certain changes to the internal measurement of segment operating profits. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to this change and on our business segments.

21

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations

For a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017, including a year-to-year comparison between 2018 and 2017, refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

The Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to The Year Ended December 31, 2018 

The following table sets forth certain financial data for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense. 

* Not meaningful

Revenues - Overall

During 2019, revenues increased by $658 million as compared to 2018, representing growth of 4.1%, or 5.2% on a constant currency basis3. Revenues from clients added during 2019, including those related to acquisitions, were $234 million. Growth was driven by our clients' adoption and integration of digital technologies, demand for our digital operations services and solutions as well as revenues from our recently completed acquisitions. This was partially offset by pricing pressure within our core portfolio of services as our clients continue their efforts to optimize the cost of supporting their legacy systems and operations.

Revenues from our top clients as a percentage of total revenues were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3 Constant currency revenue growth, Adjusted Income from Operations, Adjusted Operating Margin and Adjusted Diluted EPS are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, as applicable.

22

Table of Contents 

Revenues - Reportable Business Segments

Revenues by reportable business segment were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financial Services

Revenues from our Financial Services segment grew 0.4%, or 1.6% on a constant currency basis4 , in 2019. Revenues among our insurance clients increased by $41 million as compared to a decrease of $17 million from our banking clients. Revenues from clients added during 2019, including those related to Samlink, were $90 million. Demand in this segment was driven by our clients' need to be compliant with significant regulatory requirements and adaptable to regulatory change, and their adoption and integration of digital technologies, including customer experience enhancement, robotic process automation, analytics and AI in areas such as digital lending, fraud detection and next generation payments. Demand from certain banking clients has been and may continue to be negatively affected as they transition the support of some of their legacy systems and operations in-house or to captives.

Healthcare

Revenues from our Healthcare segment grew 0.6%, or 1.0% on a constant currency basis4, in 2019. Revenues in this segment increased by $241 million among our life science clients compared to a decrease of $214 million from our healthcare clients. Revenue growth among our life sciences clients was driven by revenues from Zenith and demand for our digital operations services and solutions. Revenues from our healthcare clients were negatively impacted by the mergers within the segment, the establishment of an offshore captive by a large client, the Customer Dispute and a ramp down of a client relationship in which we were a subcontractor to a third party for the purpose of delivering healthcare-related systems implementation services to local government, partially offset by revenues from Bolder, which we acquired in the second quarter of 2018. Revenues from clients added during 2019, including those related to acquisitions, were $36 million. 

Demand in this segment was driven by emerging industry trends, including enhanced compliance, integrated health management, claims investigative services and heightened focus on patient experience, as well as services that drive operational improvements in areas such as claims processing, enrollment, membership and billing. Demand was also created by the adoption and integration of digital technologies such as AI to shape personalized care plans and predictive data analytics to improve patient outcomes. Demand from our healthcare clients may continue to be affected by uncertainty in the regulatory environment and industry-specific trends, including industry consolidation and convergence. Demand among our life sciences clients may be affected by industry consolidation. We believe that, in the long term, the healthcare industry continues to present a significant growth opportunity due to factors that are transforming the industry, including the changing regulatory environment, increasing focus on medical costs and the consumerization of healthcare. 

Products and Resources

Revenues from our Products and Resources segment grew 10.4%, or 12.0% on a constant currency basis4, in 2019. Revenue growth was strongest among our retail and consumer goods clients, where revenue increased by $187 million. Revenues from our manufacturing, logistics, energy and utilities clients increased by $119 million while revenue from our travel and hospitality clients increased by $49 million. Revenues from clients added during 2019, including those related to acquisitions, were $69 million. Demand in this segment was driven by our clients’ focus on improving the efficiency of their operations, the enablement and integration of mobile platforms to support sales and other omni-channel commerce initiatives, and their adoption and integration of digital technologies, such as the application of intelligent systems to manage supply chain and enhance overall customer experiences.

4 Constant currency revenue growth is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information.

23

Table of Contents 

Communications, Media and Technology

Revenues from our Communications, Media and Technology segment grew 11.5%, or 13.1% on a constant currency basis5 in 2019. Growth was stronger among our technology clients where revenues increased $209 million as compared to an increase of $43 million for our communications and media clients. Revenues from clients added during 2019, including those related to acquisitions were $39 million. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients’ needs to create differentiated user experiences, transition to agile development methodologies, enhance their networks, manage their digital content and adopt and integrate digital technologies, such as cloud, interactive and IoT. In 2020, revenues within this segment will be affected by our strategic decision to exit certain content-related services. We anticipate that this decision may negatively impact our relationship with the affected clients and estimate that we may lose revenues of $225 million to $255 million on an annualized basis. We anticipate revenues will ramp down over the next one to two years and the impact on 2020 revenues is expected to be between $180 million and $200 million. Additionally, demand among our technology clients may be affected by uncertainty in the regulatory environment while significant merger and acquisition activity may impact our clients in the communications and media industry.

Revenues - Geographic Locations 

Revenues by geographic market, as determined by client location, were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

North America continues to be our largest market, representing 75.8% of total 2019 revenues and 65.8% of total revenue growth in 2019. Revenue growth in our North America region was driven by the demand for digital content services and solutions by clients in our Communications, Media and Technology segment, the adoption and integration of digital technologies by clients in our Products and Resources segment and revenues from recently completed acquisitions, partially offset by lower revenue in our Healthcare segment as described above. In 2020, revenues in our North America region will be affected by our strategic decision to exit certain content-related services in our Communications, Media and Technology segment. Revenue growth in our Continental Europe and the United Kingdom regions was driven by our life science clients and includes revenues related to our recently completed acquisitions. Revenue growth in our Rest of World region was driven by strength in our Products and Resources and Healthcare segments. Revenue growth in our North America and Rest of World regions was negatively affected as certain banking clients in these regions transition the support of some of their legacy systems and operations in-house or to captives. We believe that there are opportunities for growth across all of our geographic markets. 

Cost of Revenues (Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Expense)

Our cost of revenues consists primarily of salaries, incentive-based compensation, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, project-related immigration and travel for technical personnel, subcontracting and equipment costs relating to revenues. Our cost of revenues increased by 8.1% during 2019 as compared to 2018, increasing as a percentage of revenues to 63.4% during the 2019 period compared to 61.0% in 2018. The increase in cost of revenues, as a percentage of revenues, was due primarily to an increase in costs related to our delivery personnel (including employees and subcontractors) as headcount growth outpaced revenue growth, partially offset by lower incentive-based compensation accrual rates in 2019.

5 Constant currency revenue growth is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information.

24

Table of Contents 

SG&A Expenses

SG&A expenses consist primarily of salaries, incentive-based compensation, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, immigration, travel, marketing, communications, management, finance, administrative and occupancy costs. SG&A expenses decreased by 1.2% during 2019 as compared to 2018, decreasing as a percentage of revenues to 17.7% in 2019 as compared to 18.6% in 2018. The decrease, as a percentage of revenues, was due primarily to a decrease in compensation costs, partially offset by costs related to our recently completed acquisitions. Additionally, in 2019 we recorded the incremental accrual related to the India Defined Contribution Obligation as described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. In 2018, we recorded a $100 million charge related to the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation. 

Restructuring Charges 

Our restructuring charges consist of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan, which was announced in the fourth quarter of 2019, and our realignment program. Restructuring charges were $217 million or 1.3%, as a percentage of revenues during 2019, as compared to $19 million or 0.1%, as a percentage of revenues in 2018. For further detail on our restructuring charges see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Operating Margin - Overall 

Our operating margin and Adjusted Operating Margin6 decreased to 14.6% and 16.6%, respectively in 2019 from 17.4% and 18.1%, respectively, during 2018. The decreases in our operating margin and Adjusted Operating Margin6 were due to an increase in costs related to our delivery personnel (including employees and subcontractors) outpacing revenue growth, the dilutive impact of our recently completed acquisitions, contract renegotiations with recently merged Healthcare clients and the Customer Dispute, partially offset by the impact of lower incentive-based compensation accrual rates. Our 2019 GAAP operating margin was additionally negatively impacted by the incremental accrual related to the India Defined Contribution Obligation as described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements and higher realignment charges while our 2018 GAAP operating margin was negatively impacted by the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation.

Excluding the impact of applicable designated cash flow hedges, the depreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar positively impacted our operating margin by approximately 53 basis points or 0.53 percentage points in 2019, while in 2018 the depreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar positively impacted our operating margin by approximately 89 basis points or 0.89 percentage points. Each additional 1.0% change in exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar will have the effect of moving our operating margin by approximately 18 basis points or 0.18 percentage points. 

We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain Indian rupee denominated payments in India. These hedges are intended to mitigate the volatility of the changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the settlement of cash flow hedges had an immaterial impact on our operating margin as compared to a positive impact of approximately 44 basis points or 0.44 percentage points in 2018.

Our most significant costs are the salaries and related benefits for our employees. These costs are affected by the impact of inflation. In certain regions, competition for professionals with the advanced technical skills necessary to perform our services has caused wages to increase at a rate greater than the general rate of inflation. 

We finished the year with approximately 292,500 employees, which is an increase of approximately 10,900 over the prior year end. For the three months ended December 31, 2019, annualized turnover, including both voluntary and involuntary, was approximately 20.8%. Turnover for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, including both voluntary and involuntary, was approximately 21.7% and 20.8%, respectively. Attrition is weighted more towards the junior members of our staff. 

6 Adjusted Operating Margin is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

25

Table of Contents 

Segment Operating Profit and Margin

Segment operating profit and margin were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Across all of our operating segments, operating margins decreased as costs related to our delivery personnel (including employees and subcontractors) outpaced revenue growth. Additionally, operating margins in Healthcare were negatively affected by mergers among several of our healthcare clients, the Customer Dispute and the impairment of certain capitalized costs related to a large volume-based contract.

Certain SG&A expenses, the excess or shortfall of incentive compensation for commercial and delivery personnel as compared to target, costs related to our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan and realignment program, a portion of depreciation and amortization and the impact of the settlements of our cash flow hedges are not allocated to individual segments in internal management reports used by the chief operating decision maker. Accordingly, such expenses are excluded from segment operating profit and are separately disclosed above as “unallocated costs” and adjusted against our total income from operations. The increase in unallocated costs during 2019 compared to 2018 is primarily due to higher realignment charges incurred in 2019 and the India Defined Contribution Obligation recorded in 2019, partially offset by a shortfall of incentive-based compensation as compared to target in 2019 and the initial funding of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation recorded in 2018.

Other Income (Expense), Net 

Total other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, interest income and interest expense. The following table sets forth total other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The foreign currency exchange gains and losses in all the years presented were primarily attributable to the remeasurement of the Indian rupee denominated net monetary assets and liabilities in our U.S. dollar functional currency India subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, the remeasurement of other net monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries. The gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments relate to the realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts entered into to partially offset foreign currency exposure to the Euro and Indian rupee and other non-U.S. dollar denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2019, the notional value of our undesignated hedges was $702 million. 

26

Table of Contents 

Provision for Income Taxes 

The provision for income taxes was $643 million in 2019 and $698 million in 2018. The effective income tax rate remained relatively flat at 25.3% in 2019 as compared to 25.0% in 2018. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we recorded a one-time net income tax expense of $21 million as a result of the enactment of the India Tax Law. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

Income (loss) from equity method investments

In 2019, we recorded an impairment charge of $57 million on one of our equity method investments as further described in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Net Income 

Net income was $1,842 million in 2019 and $2,101 million in 2018. Net income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 11.0% in 2019 from 13.0% in 2018. The decrease in net income is primarily due to a decrease in income from operations, partially offset by lower foreign exchange losses as compared to 2018.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

Portions of our disclosure include non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, set forth below, should be carefully evaluated. 

Our non-GAAP financial measures, Adjusted Operating Margin, Adjusted Income From Operations and Adjusted Diluted EPS exclude unusual items. Additionally, Adjusted Diluted EPS excludes net non-operating foreign currency exchange gains or losses and the tax impact of all the applicable adjustments. The income tax impact of each item is calculated by applying the statutory rate and local tax regulations in the jurisdiction in which the item was incurred. Constant currency revenue growth is defined as revenues for a given period restated at the comparative period’s foreign currency exchange rates measured against the comparative period's reported revenues.

We believe providing investors with an operating view consistent with how we manage the Company provides enhanced transparency into our operating results. For our internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, we use various GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making, to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, to determine portions of the compensation for our executive officers and for making comparisons of our operating results to those of our competitors. Therefore, it is our belief that the use of non-GAAP financial measures excluding certain costs provides a meaningful supplemental measure for investors to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that the presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures (Adjusted Income from Operations, Adjusted Operating Margin, Adjusted Diluted EPS and constant currency revenue growth) along with reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure, as applicable, can provide useful supplemental information to our management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations.

A limitation of using non-GAAP financial measures versus financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our operating results as determined in accordance with GAAP and may exclude costs that are recurring such as our net non-operating foreign currency exchange gains or losses. In addition, other companies may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than us, thereby limiting the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as a comparative tool. We compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures to allow investors to evaluate such non-GAAP financial measures.

27

Table of Contents 

The following table presents a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP measure for the years ended December 31: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)As part of our realignment program, during the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred Executive Transition Costs, employee separation costs, employee retention costs and third party realignment costs. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

(2)In 2019, we recorded an accrual of $117 million related to the India Defined Contribution Obligation as further described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements.

(3)During 2019, we incurred certain employee separation, employee retention and facility exit costs under our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

(4)In 2018, we provided $100 million of initial funding to Cognizant U.S. Foundation. This cost is reported in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" in our consolidated statement of operations.

(5)Non-operating foreign currency exchange gains and losses, inclusive of gains and losses on related foreign exchange forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes, are reported in "Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net" in our consolidated statements of operations.

(6)Presented below are the tax impacts of each of our non-GAAP adjustments to pre-tax income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The effective income tax rate related to each of our non-GAAP adjustments varies depending on the jurisdictions in which such income and expenses are generated and the statutory rates applicable in those jurisdictions.

(7)In 2019, we recorded an impairment charge of $57 million on one of our equity investments as further described in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 

28

Table of Contents 

(8)In 2019, we recorded a one-time net income tax expense of $21 million as a result of the enactment of a new tax law in India. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

(9)In 2018, we finalized our calculation of the one-time net income tax expense related to the enactment of the Tax Reform Act and recognized a $5 million income tax benefit, which reduced our provision for income taxes.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our cash generated from operations has historically been our primary source of liquidity to fund operations and investments to grow our business. In addition, as of December 31, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3,424 million, of which $414 million was restricted and not available for use as a result of our ongoing dispute with the ITD as described in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, as of December 31, 2019, we had available capacity under our credit facilities of approximately $1,932 million. 

The following table provides a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating activities

The decrease in cash generated from operating activities for 2019 compared to 2018 was primarily due to the decrease in income from operations and an increase in the cash taxes paid during 2019, partially offset by improved collections of trade accounts receivable in 2019. 

We monitor turnover, aging and the collection of trade accounts receivable by client. Our DSO calculation includes trade accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and contract assets, reduced by the uncollected portion of our deferred revenue. DSO was 73 days as of December 31, 2019 and 74 days as of December 31, 2018. As further described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, during the fourth quarter of 2019, we changed our policy with regard to the presentation of certain amounts due to customers, such as discounts and rebates. This change in policy had the effect of reducing our DSO by two days and one day as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 

Investing activities

Net cash provided by investing activities in 2019 was driven by net sales of investments partially offset by payments for acquisitions and outflows for capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities in 2018 is related to payments for acquisitions, outflows for capital expenditures and net purchases of investments.

Financing activities

The increase in cash used in financing activities in 2019 compared to 2018 is primarily attributable to higher repurchases of common stock in 2019, including our $600 million 2019 ASR agreement. 

We have a Credit Agreement providing for a $750 million Term Loan and a $1,750 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which are due to mature in November 2023. We are required under the Credit Agreement to make scheduled quarterly principal payments on the Term Loan. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement to borrow thereunder, and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the remaining available capacity under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2019 and through the date of this filing. 

In September 2019, our India subsidiary entered into a 13 billion Indian rupee ($182 million at the December 31, 2019 exchange rate) working capital facility, which requires us to repay any balances drawn down within 90 days from the date of disbursement. As of December 31, 2019, there was no balance outstanding under the working capital facility. 

During 2019, we returned $2,609 million to our stockholders through $2,156 million in share repurchases under our stock repurchase program and $453 million in dividend payments funded primarily with the proceeds from the liquidation of our available-for-sale investment portfolio and operating cash flows. Our shares outstanding decreased to 548 million as of December 31, 2019 

29

Table of Contents 

from 577 million as of December 31, 2018. In February 2020, our Board of Directors approved a 10% or $0.02 increase to our quarterly cash dividends and increased our stock repurchase program authorization from $5.5 billion to $7.5 billion, excluding fees and expenses. We review our capital return plan on an on-going basis, considering our financial performance and liquidity position, investments required to execute our strategic plans and initiatives, acquisition opportunities, the economic outlook, regulatory changes and other relevant factors. As these factors may change over time, the actual amounts expended on stock repurchase activity, dividends, and acquisitions, if any, during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time.

Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Information

 We seek to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of our domestic and international cash flows and cash balances. As of December 31, 2019, the amount of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States was $3,097 million, of which $2,414 million was in India. As further described in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, certain short-term investment balances in India totaling $414 million as of December 31, 2019, were restricted in connection with our dispute with the ITD. The affected balances may continue to remain restricted and unavailable for our use while the dispute is ongoing.

We evaluate on an ongoing basis what portion of the non-U.S. cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside India is needed locally to execute our strategic plans and what amount is available for repatriation back to the United States. We consider our earnings in India to be indefinitely reinvested, which is consistent with our ongoing strategy to expand our Indian operations, including through infrastructure investments. However, future events may occur, such as material changes in cash estimates, discretionary transactions, including corporate restructurings, and changes in applicable laws, that may lead us to repatriate the undistributed Indian earnings. As of December 31, 2019, the amount of unrepatriated Indian earnings was approximately $5,242 million. If all of our accumulated unrepatriated Indian earnings were to be repatriated, based on our current interpretation of India tax law, we estimate that we would incur an additional income tax expense of approximately $1,101 million. This estimate is subject to change based on tax legislation developments in India and other jurisdictions as well as judicial and interpretive developments of applicable tax laws. 

On February 1, 2020, the India Finance Minister presented the Budget, which contains a number of proposed provisions related to tax, including a replacement of the dividend distribution tax, which is due from the dividend payer, with a tax payable by the shareholder receiving the dividend. If enacted, these provisions would significantly reduce the tax rate applicable to any cash we were to repatriate from India. These provisions are proposed to be effective for the India financial year starting April 1, 2020. We are in the process of reviewing the various tax provisions outlined in the Budget, and will finalize our assessment once the Budget proposals are passed into law by the Parliament of India.

We expect our operating cash flow, cash and investment balances (excluding the $414 million of India restricted assets), together with our available capacity under our revolving credit facilities to be sufficient to meet our operating requirements, in India and globally, for the next twelve months. Our ability to expand and grow our business in accordance with current plans, make acquisitions and form joint ventures, meet our long-term capital requirements beyond a twelve-month period and execute our capital return plan will depend on many factors, including the rate, if any, at which our cash flow increases, our ability and willingness to pay for acquisitions and joint ventures with capital stock and the availability of public and private debt and equity financing. We cannot be certain that additional financing, if required, will be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all.

30

Table of Contents 

Commitments and Contingencies

Commitments

As of December 31, 2019, we had the following obligations and commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations and commercial commitments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)Consists of scheduled repayments of our Term Loan.

(2)Interest on the Term Loan was calculated at interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2019.

(3)Other purchase commitments include, among other things, communications and information technology obligations, as well as other obligations in the ordinary course of business that we cannot cancel or where we would be required to pay a termination fee in the event of cancellation.

(4)The Tax Reform Act transition tax on undistributed foreign earnings is payable in installments through the year 2026. 

As of December 31, 2019, we had $152 million of unrecognized income tax benefits. This represents the income tax benefits associated with certain income tax positions on our U.S. and non-U.S. tax returns that have not been recognized on our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution. The resolution of these income tax positions with the relevant taxing authorities is at various stages, and therefore we are unable to make a reliable estimate of the eventual cash flows by period that may be required to settle these matters.

Contingencies

See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Other than our foreign exchange forward contracts, there were no off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons in 2019 and 2018 that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our accompanying consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. We base our estimates on historical experience, current trends and on various other assumptions that are believed to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. We evaluate our estimates on a continuous basis. However, the actual amounts may differ from the estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 

We believe the following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported consolidated financial statements as they require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Changes to these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

31

Table of Contents 

Revenue Recognition. Revenues related to fixed-price contracts for application development and systems integration services, consulting or other technology services are recognized as the service is performed using the cost to cost method, under which the total value of revenues is recognized on the basis of the percentage that each contract’s total labor cost to date bears to the total expected labor costs. Revenues related to fixed-price application maintenance, testing and business process services are recognized using the cost to cost method, if the right to invoice is not representative of the value being delivered. The cost to cost method requires estimation of future costs, which is updated as the project progresses to reflect the latest available information. Such estimates and changes in estimates involve the use of judgment. The cumulative impact of any revision in estimates is reflected in the financial reporting period in which the change in estimate becomes known. Net changes in estimates of such future costs and contract losses were immaterial to the consolidated results of operations for the periods presented.

Income Taxes. Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, deferred income tax assets (and related valuation allowance, if any) and liabilities requires significant judgment. We are required to calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the jurisdictions where we operate. Changes in the geographic mix of income before taxes or estimated level of annual pre-tax income can affect our overall effective income tax rate. In addition, transactions between our affiliated entities are arranged in accordance with applicable transfer pricing laws, regulations and relevant guidelines. As a result, and due to the interpretive nature of certain aspects of these laws and guidelines, we have pending applications for APAs before the taxing authorities in some of our most significant jurisdictions. It could take years for the relevant taxing authorities to negotiate and conclude these applications. The consolidated provision for income taxes may change period to period based on changes in facts and circumstances, such as settlements of income tax audits or finalization of our applications for APAs.

Our provision for income taxes also includes the impact of reserves established for uncertain income tax positions, as well as the related interest, which may require us to apply judgment to complex issues and may require an extended period of time to resolve. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not differ from our recorded amounts. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters differs from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.

Business Combinations, Goodwill and Intangible Assets. Goodwill and intangible assets, including indefinite-lived intangible assets, arise from the accounting for business combinations. We account for business combinations using the acquisition method which requires us to estimate the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, including any contingent consideration, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The allocation of the purchase price utilizes significant estimates in determining the fair values of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, especially with respect to intangible assets. The significant estimates and assumptions include the timing and amount of forecasted revenues and cash flows, anticipated growth rates, client attrition rates, the discount rate reflecting the risk inherent in future cash flows and the determination of useful lives for finite-lived assets.

We exercise judgment to allocate goodwill to the reporting units expected to benefit from each business combination. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, regulatory environment, established business plans, operating performance indicators or competition. Evaluation of goodwill for impairment requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. 

We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach, utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis, and a market approach, using market multiples. Under the income approach, we estimate projected future cash flows, the timing of such cash flows and long-term growth rates, and determine the appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk inherent in the projected future cash flows. The discount rate used is based on our weighted-average cost of capital and may be adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business-specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit’s ability to execute on the projected future cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate fair value based on market multiples of revenues and earnings derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with characteristics similar to the reporting unit. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit. 

We also evaluate indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or as circumstances warrant. Our 2019 qualitative assessment included the review of relevant macroeconomic factors and entity-specific qualitative factors to determine if it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets was below carrying value.

32

Table of Contents 

Based on our most recent evaluation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets performed during the fourth quarter of 2019, we concluded that the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset balances in each of our reporting units were not at risk of impairment. As of December 31, 2019, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset balances were $3,979 million and $72 million, respectively.

We review our finite-lived assets, including our finite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recoverable. We recognize an impairment loss when the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of such asset groups. The impairment loss is determined as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. Assessing the fair value of asset groups involves significant estimates and assumptions including estimation of future cash flows, the timing of such cash flows and discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in future cash flows. 

Contingencies. Loss contingencies are recorded as liabilities when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a material loss contingency is reasonably possible but not probable, we do not record a liability, but instead disclose the nature and amount of the claim, and an estimate of the loss or range of loss, if such an estimate can be made. Significant judgment is required in the determination of whether an exposure is considered probable and reasonably estimable. Our judgments are subjective and based on the information available from the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses and consultation with in-house and outside legal counsel. As additional information becomes available, we reassess any potential liability related to any pending litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in estimates of any potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.

Recently Adopted and New Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Forward Looking Statements

The statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other things, the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “could,” “would,” “plan,” “intend,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” “should” or “anticipate” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. From time to time, we or our representatives have made or may make forward-looking statements, orally or in writing.

Such forward-looking statements may be included in various filings made by us with the SEC, in press releases or in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our authorized executive officers. These forward-looking statements, such as statements regarding our anticipated future revenues or operating margin, earnings, capital expenditures, anticipated effective income tax rate and income tax expense, liquidity, access to capital, capital return plan, investment strategies, cost management, realignment program, 2020 Fit for Growth Plan, plans and objectives, including those related to our digital practice areas, investment in our business, potential acquisitions, industry trends, client behaviors and trends, the outcome of regulatory and litigation matters, the incremental accrual related to the India Defined Contribution Obligation and other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts, are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections, management’s beliefs and certain assumptions made by management, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control. Actual results, performance, achievements and outcomes could differ materially from the results expressed in, or anticipated or implied by, these forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including:

•economic and political conditions globally and in particular in the markets in which our clients and operations are concentrated;

•our ability to attract, train and retain skilled professionals, including highly skilled technical personnel to satisfy client demand and senior management to lead our business globally;

•challenges related to growing our business organically as well as inorganically through acquisitions, and our ability to achieve our targeted growth rates;

•our ability to achieve our profitability and capital return goals;

•our ability to successfully implement our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan and achieve the anticipated benefits from the plan;

•our ability to meet specified service levels or milestones required by certain of our contracts;

•intense and evolving competition and significant technological advances that our service offerings must keep pace with in the rapidly changing markets we compete in;

33

Table of Contents 

•legal, reputational and financial risks if we fail to protect client and/or Cognizant data from security breaches or cyberattacks;

•the effectiveness of our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and the potential that our global delivery capacity could be impacted;

•restrictions on visas, in particular in the United States, United Kingdom and European Union, or immigration more generally, which may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to our clients;

•risks related to anti-outsourcing legislation, if adopted, and negative perceptions associated with offshore outsourcing, both of which could impair our ability to serve our clients;

•risks related to complying with the numerous and evolving legal and regulatory requirements to which we are subject in the many jurisdictions in which we operate; 

•potential changes in tax laws, or in their interpretation or enforcement, failure by us to adapt our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements to achieve global tax efficiencies or adverse outcomes of tax audits, investigations or proceedings;

•potential exposure to litigation and legal claims in the conduct of our business;

•potential significant expense that would occur if we change our intent not to repatriate Indian accumulated undistributed earnings; and

•the factors set forth in Part I, in the section entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report.

You are advised to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in the reports we file with the SEC, including this report in the sections titled “Part I, Item 1. Business,” “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.

34

Table of Contents 

Glossary

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

35

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk