Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Background 

On June 1, 2019, Corteva, Inc. became an independent, publicly traded company through the previously announced separation (the “Separation”) of the agriculture business of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. (formerly known as DowDuPont Inc.) (“DuPont” or "DowDuPont"). The separation was effectuated through a pro rata distribution (the “Corteva Distribution”) of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Corteva, Inc., which was then a wholly-owned subsidiary of DowDuPont, to holders of record of DowDuPont common stock as of the close of business on May 24, 2019. In connection with the Separation, DowDuPont Inc. changed its name to DuPont de Nemours, Inc.

Subsequent to the Merger, Historical Dow and EID engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three divisions: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. As a result of the Internal Reorganization (defined below), on May 31, 2019, EID was contributed to Corteva, Inc. and, as a result, Corteva, Inc. owns 100% of the outstanding common stock of EID. Prior to March 31, 2019, Corteva, Inc. had engaged in no business operations and had no assets or liabilities of any kind, other than those incident to its formation.

EID continues to be a reporting company and is deemed to be the predecessor to Corteva, Inc., with the historical results of EID to be deemed the historical results of Corteva for periods prior to and including May 31, 2019. Shares of EID preferred stock, $3.50 Series and $4.50 Series, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Separation remain issued and outstanding and were unaffected by the Separation.

Corteva combines the strengths of EID’s Pioneer and Crop Protection businesses and the DAS business to create a leading global provider of seed and crop protection solutions focused on the agriculture industry. The company is focused on advancing its science-based innovation, which aims to deliver a wide range of improved products and services to its customers. Through the merger of the EID and DAS innovation pipelines, Corteva has one of the broadest and most productive new product pipelines in the agriculture industry. The company intends to leverage its rich heritage of scientific achievement to advance its robust innovation pipeline and continue to shape the future of responsible agriculture. New products are crucial to solving farmers’ productivity challenges amid a growing global population while addressing natural resistance, regulatory changes, safety requirements and competitive dynamics. The company’s investment in technology-based and solution-based product offerings allows it to meet farmers’ evolving needs while ensuring that its investments generate sufficient returns. Meanwhile, through Corteva’s unique routes to market, the company continues to work face-to-face with farmers around the world to deeply understand their needs. 

The company's broad portfolio of agriculture solutions fuels farmer productivity in approximately 140 countries. Total worldwide employment at December 31, 2019 was about 21,000 people. See Note 24 - Geographic Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the location of the company's sales and property. 

DowDuPont Merger of Equals, Internal Reorganizations, and Business Separations

Subsequent to the Merger, Historical Dow and EID engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products through a series of tax-efficient transactions (collectively, the "Business Separations”). Effective as of 5:00 pm ET on April 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the previously announced separation of its materials science business into a separate and independent public company by way of a distribution of Dow Inc. (“Dow”) through a pro rata dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Dow’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to holders of DowDuPont's common stock (the “DowDuPont Common Stock”), as of the close of business on March 21, 2019 (the “Dow Distribution” and together with the Corteva Distribution, the “Distributions”).

Prior to the Dow Distribution, Historical Dow conveyed or transferred the assets and liabilities aligned with Historical Dow’s agriculture business to separate legal entities (“Dow Ag Entities”) and the assets and liabilities associated with its specialty products business to separate legal entities (the “Dow SP Entities”). On April 1, 2019, Dow Ag Entities and the Dow SP Entities were transferred and conveyed to DowDuPont.

In furtherance of the Business Separations, EID engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps (the “Internal Reorganization” and the "Business Realignment," respectively) to realign its businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. As part of the Internal Reorganization:

•the assets and liabilities aligned with EID’s materials science business, including EID’s ethylene and ethylene copolymers business, excluding its ethylene acrylic elastomers business, (“EID ECP”) were transferred or conveyed to separate legal entities (the “Materials Science Entities”) that were ultimately conveyed by DowDuPont to Dow;

3

Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued

•the assets and liabilities aligned with EID’s specialty products business were transferred or conveyed to separate legal entities (“EID Specialty Products Entities”);

•on April 1, 2019, EID transferred and conveyed its Materials Science Entities to Dow;

•on May 1, 2019, EID distributed its Specialty Products Entities to DowDuPont;

•on May 2, 2019, DowDuPont conveyed Dow Ag Entities to EID and in connection with the foregoing, EID issued additional shares of its common stock to DowDuPont; and

•on May 31, 2019, DowDuPont contributed EID to Corteva, Inc.

On May 6, 2019, the Board of Directors of DowDuPont approved the distribution of all the then issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Corteva, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of DowDuPont, to DowDuPont stockholders. On June 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the Separation. Each DowDuPont stockholder received one share of Corteva, Inc. common stock for every three shares of DowDuPont common stock held at the close of business on May 24, 2019, the record date of distribution. Corteva, Inc.'s common stock began trading the "regular way" under the ticker symbol "CTVA" on June 3, 2019, the first business day after June 1, 2019. Upon becoming an independent company, the capital structure of Corteva consisted of 748,815,000 authorized shares of common stock (par value of $0.01 per share), which represents the number of common shares issued on June 3, 2019.

As a result of the Business Realignment and the Internal Reorganization discussed above, Corteva owns 100% of the outstanding common stock of EID, and EID owns, directly or indirectly, 100% of DAS. EID is a subsidiary of Corteva, Inc. and continues to be a reporting company, subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Separation Agreements

In connection with the Distributions, DuPont, Corteva, and Dow (together, the “Parties” and each a “Party”) have entered into certain agreements to effect the separation, provide for the allocation of DowDuPont’s assets, employees, liabilities and obligations (including its investments, property and employee benefits and tax-related assets and liabilities) among the Parties, and provide a framework for Corteva's relationship with Dow and DuPont following the separations and Distributions. Effective April 1, 2019, the Parties entered into the following agreements:

•Separation and Distribution Agreement - Effective April 1, 2019, the Parties entered into an agreement that sets forth, among other things, the agreements among the Parties regarding the principal transactions necessary to effect the Distributions. It also sets forth other agreements that govern certain aspects of the Parties’ ongoing relationships after the completion of the Distributions (the "Corteva Separation Agreement").

•Tax Matters Agreement - The Parties entered into an agreement effective as of April 1, 2019, as amended on June 1, 2019, that governs their respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, the preparation and filing of tax returns, the control of audits and other tax proceedings and other matters regarding taxes.

•Employee Matters Agreement - The Parties entered into an agreement that identifies employees and employee-related liabilities (and attributable assets) to be allocated (either retained, transferred and accepted, or assigned and assumed, as applicable) to the Parties as part of the Distributions and describes when and how the relevant transfers and assignments would occur.

•Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreement - Effective as of April 1, 2019 Corteva and Dow, and effective June 1, 2019 Corteva and DuPont, entered into Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements. The Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements set forth the terms and conditions under which the applicable Parties may use in their respective businesses, following each of the Distributions, certain know-how (including trade secrets), copyrights, and software, and certain patents and standards, allocated to another Party pursuant to the Corteva Separation Agreement.

4

Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued

•Letter Agreement - DuPont and Corteva entered into a Letter Agreement. The Letter Agreement sets forth certain additional terms and conditions related to the Separation, including certain limitations on each party’s ability to transfer certain businesses and assets to third parties without assigning certain of such party’s indemnification obligations under the Corteva Separation Agreement to the other party to the transferee of such businesses and assets or meeting certain other alternative conditions.

Spin-off of Performance Chemicals

On July 1, 2015, Historical DuPont completed the separation of its Performance Chemicals segment through the spin-off of all of the issued and outstanding stock of The Chemours Company ("Chemours"). In connection with the separation, Historical DuPont and Chemours entered into a Separation Agreement and a Tax Matters Agreement as well as certain ancillary agreements. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), the results of operations of its former Performance Chemicals segment are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, are included within (loss) income from discontinued operations after income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. Additional details regarding the separation and other related agreements can be found in Note 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Business Segments

The company’s operations are managed through two reportable segments: seed and crop protection. The seed segment develops and supplies commercial seed combining superior germplasm with advanced traits to produce high yield potential for farmers around the world. The crop protection segment supplies products to protect crop yields against weeds, insects and disease, enabling farmers to achieve optimal results. The combination of these leading platforms creates one of the broadest portfolios of agriculture solutions in the industry. Additional information with respect to business segment results is included in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 55 of this report and Note 25 - Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Seed

The seed segment is a global leader in developing and supplying commercial seed combining advanced germplasm and traits that produce optimum yield for farms around the world. The company’s seed segment is a leader in many key seed markets, including North America corn and soybeans, Europe corn and sunflower, as well as Brazil, India, South Africa and Argentina corn. The company offers trait technologies that improve resistance to weather, disease, insects and weeds, and trait technologies that enhance food and nutritional characteristics. In addition, the company provides digital solutions that assist farmer decision-making with a view to optimize product selection and, ultimately, help maximize yield and profitability. 

Details on the seed segment’s net sales by major product line and geographic region (based on customer location) are as follows:

5

Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued

Products and Brands 

The seed segment’s major brands and technologies, by key product line, are listed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

U.S. federal regulatory authorizations have been obtained for the commercialization of ENLIST™ corn, ENLIST E3™ soybeans and ENLIST® cotton, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's registration of ENLIST DUO® and ENLIST ONE® for use with ENLIST™ corn, soybeans and cotton in 34 states. The company has also secured cultivation authorizations of ENLIST E3™ soybeans and ENLIST™ corn in Argentina, Brazil, and North America.

In connection with the validation of breeding plans and large-scale product development timelines focused on rapidly ramping up differentiated technology solutions, during the fourth quarter of 2019, the company is accelerating the ramp up of the Enlist E3TM trait platform in the company’s soybean portfolio mix across all brands, including Pioneer® brands, over the next five years. During the ramp-up period, the company is expected to significantly reduce the volume of products with the Roundup Ready 2 Yield® and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend® herbicide tolerance traits beginning in 2021, with expected minimal use of the Roundup Ready 2 Yield® and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend® traits thereafter for the remaining term of the non-exclusive license with the Monsanto Company. Refer to Prepaid Royalties within the Critical Accounting Estimates section on page 70 for additional information.

In 2019, Corteva received import authorization from China for the Conkesta™ soybean insect control trait. The trait approval had been in progress in China since 2014. The receipt of China import approval is a necessary step for commercialization of Conkesta E3™ in Latin America, which the company is expecting the latter part of 2021, pending additional regulatory approvals. 

In 2019, the company launched Qrome® corn products in U.S. Pioneer® brands. Qrome® products offer growers high yield potential insect control options to help drive productivity for their operations by combining top-tier genetics and strong defensive traits. In 2020, Qrome® products will be expanded to the U.S. multi-channel and Canada Pioneer® brands.

The company acquired exclusive rights to the Clearfield® canola production system in North America from BASF in 2019. The Clearfield® canola trait provides non-genetically modified tolerance to imidazolinone herbicides. Clearfield® canola in the Pioneer® and Nexera® brands were already highly established in the market and integrated into the company’s breeding, production and commercial processes. 

Distribution

The seed segment has a diverse worldwide network which markets and distributes the company’s brands to customers, primarily through the company’s multi-channel, multi-brand strategy, which includes four differentiated channels: Pioneer agency model, regional brands, retail brands, as well as third parties through licensing and distribution channels.

6

Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued

The Pioneer agency model is unique to Corteva and represents sales made directly to farmers via independent sales representatives. Through this agency model, the company interacts directly with farmers at multiple points in the growing season, from prior to planting all the way through harvest. These regular interactions enable the company to provide the advice and service farmers need while giving the company real-time insights into the customers’ future ordering decisions. The company’s regional brands connect to customers through regional brand employees and farmer-dealer networks. Retail brands provide a one-stop shop for seed and chemistry solutions and may include sales to distributors, agricultural cooperatives, and dealers. Finally, Corteva out-licenses traits and germplasm to third parties.

Key Raw Materials

The key raw materials for seed include corn and soybean seeds. To produce high-quality seeds, the company contracts with third party growers globally. Corteva focuses on production close to the customer to ensure the seed product is suitable for that region and its weed, insect and disease challenges, weather, soil and other conditions. The company conditions and packages the seeds using its own plants and third-party contract manufacturers. By striking a balance between owning production facility assets directly and contracting with third party growers, the company believes it is best able to maintain flexibility to react to demand changes unique to each geography while minimizing costs. The company seeks to collaborate with strategic seed growers and share its digital agronomy and product management knowledge with them. The company’s third-party growers are an important part of its supply chain. Corteva provides them with rigorous training, planning tools and access to a system that tests and advances products matched to specific geographic needs.

The company’s R&D and supply chain groups work seamlessly to select and maintain product characteristics that enhance the quality of its seed products and solutions. The company focuses on customer-driven innovation to deliver the best germplasm and trait technologies. With its large sets of digitized data and its seed field management solution, the company can manage its field operations efficiently and draw insights from data quickly and effectively. This allows the company’s supply chain to react quickly to changing customer needs and provides R&D with tremendous amounts of data to analyze and incorporate into resource allocation decisions. The company continues to invest in and build capabilities that drive value via data digitization and analytics that enable it to create an even more responsive and efficient answer to customer needs.

Crop Protection

The crop protection segment serves the global agricultural input industry with products that protect against weeds, insects and other pests, and disease, and that improve overall crop health both above and below ground via nitrogen management and seed-applied technologies. The company offers crop protection solutions that provide farmers the tools they need to improve productivity and profitability, and help keep fields free of weeds, insects and diseases. The company is a leader in global herbicides, insecticides, above-ground nitrogen stabilizers and pasture and range management herbicides.

Details on the crop protection segment’s net sales by major product line and geographic region (based on customer location) are as follows:

7

Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued

Products and Brands 

The crop protection segment’s major brands and technologies, by key product line, are listed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Key Raw Materials

The key raw materials and supplies for crop protection include chlorinated pyridines derivatives, specialty intermediates and technical grade active ingredients, chlorine, and seed treatments. Typically, the company purchases major raw materials through long-term contracts with multiple suppliers, which sometimes require minimum purchase commitments. Certain important raw materials are supplied by a few major suppliers. The company expects the markets for its raw materials to remain balanced, though pricing may be volatile given the current state of the global economy. The company relies on contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain inputs or key components for its product formulations. These inputs are typically sourced close to where the company ultimately formulates and sells its products. The company strives to maintain multiple high-quality supply sources for each input.

Corteva’s supply chain strategy will involve managing global supplies of active and intermediate ingredients sourced regionally with global best practices and oversight. Corteva’s supply strategy includes a robust and flexible global footprint to meet future portfolio growth. The company’s supply chain also provides competitive advantages including reducing time to meet customer requirements in regions while minimizing costs through the value chain.

Seasonality

Corteva’s sales are generally strongest in the first half of the calendar year, which aligns with the planting and growing season in the northern hemisphere. The company typically generates about 65 percent of its sales in the first half of the calendar year, driven by northern hemisphere seed and crop protection sales. The company generates about 35 percent of its sales in the second half of the calendar year, led by seed sales in the southern hemisphere. The seasonality in sales impacts both the seed and crop protection segments. The company’s direct distribution channel, where products are shipped to farmers, is more affected by planting delays than its competitors. Generally speaking, unfavorable weather slows the planting season and can affect the company’s quarterly results and sales mix. Severe unfavorable weather, however, can impact overall sales. Accounts receivable tends to be higher during the first half of the year, consistent with the peak sales period in the northern hemisphere, with cash collection focused in the fourth quarter.

8

Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued

Intellectual Property

Corteva considers its intellectual property estate, which includes patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights, in the aggregate, to constitute a valuable asset of Corteva and actively seeks to secure intellectual property rights as part of an overall strategy to protect its investment in innovations and maximize the results of its research and development program. While the company believes that its intellectual property estate, taken as a whole, provides a competitive advantage in many of its businesses, no single patent, trademark, license or group of related patents or licenses is in itself essential to the company as a whole or to any of the company’s segments.

Trade secrets are an important element of the company's intellectual property. Many of the processes used to make Corteva products are kept as trade secrets which, from time to time, may be licensed to third parties. Corteva vigilantly protects all of its intellectual property including its trade secrets. When the company discovers that its trade secrets have been unlawfully taken, it reports the matter to governmental authorities for investigation and potential criminal action, as appropriate. In addition, the company takes measures to mitigate any potential impact, which may include civil actions seeking redress, restitution and/or damages based on loss to the company and/or unjust enrichment.

Patents & Trademarks: Corteva continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents and has access to a large patent portfolio, both owned and licensed. Corteva’s rights under these patents and licenses, as well as the products made and sold under them, are important to the company in the aggregate. The protection afforded by these patents varies based on country, scope of individual patent coverage, as well as the availability of legal remedies in each country. This significant patent estate may be leveraged to align with the company’s strategic priorities within and across product lines. At December 31, 2019, the company owned about 5,200 U.S. patents and about 9,200 active patents outside of the U.S. 

Remaining life of granted patents owned as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition to its owned patents, the company owns over 7,100 patent applications.

The company also owns or has licensed a substantial number of tradenames, trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and other countries, including over 12,100 registrations and pending trademark applications in a number of jurisdictions.

In addition, the company holds multiple long-term biotechnology trait licenses from third parties as a normal course of business. Most corn hybrids and soybean varieties sold to customers contain biotechnology traits licensed from third parties under these long-term licenses.

Competition

The company competes with producers of seed germplasm, trait developers, and crop protection products on a global basis. The global market for products within the industry is highly competitive and the company believes competition has and will continue to intensify with industry consolidation. Corteva competes based on germplasm and trait leadership, price, quality and cost competitiveness and the offering of a holistic solution. The company’s key competitors include BASF, Bayer, FMC and ChemChina, as well as companies trading in generic crop protection chemicals and regional seed companies.

Environmental Matters 

Information related to environmental matters is included in several areas of this report: (1) Environmental Proceedings beginning on page 27, (2) Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on pages 67, 73-75 and (3) Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

9

Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued

Available Information

The company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are accessible on Corteva's website at http://www.corteva.com/ by clicking on the section labeled "Investors", then on "Financial Information." These reports are made available, without charge, as soon as is reasonably practicable after the company files or furnishes them electronically with the SEC.

10

Part I

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS