ITEM 1. Business.

For convenience, the terms “Discovery,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to refer to both Discovery, Inc. and collectively to Discovery, Inc. and one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. On March 6, 2018, the Company acquired Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. ("Scripps Networks") and changed its name from "Discovery Communications, Inc." to "Discovery, Inc." (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

We were formed in September 2008 as a Delaware corporation in connection with Discovery Holding Company (“DHC”) and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership (“Advance/Newhouse”) combining their respective ownership interests in Discovery Communications Holding, LLC (“DCH”) and exchanging those interests with and into Discovery (the “Discovery Formation”). As a result of the Discovery Formation, DHC and DCH became wholly-owned subsidiaries of Discovery, with Discovery becoming the successor reporting entity to DHC.

OVERVIEW

We are a global media company that provides content across multiple distribution platforms, including linear platforms such as pay-television ("pay-TV"), free-to-air ("FTA") and broadcast television, authenticated GO applications, digital distribution arrangements, content licensing arrangements and direct-to-consumer ("DTC") subscription products. As one of the world’s largest pay-TV programmers, we provide original and purchased content and live events to approximately 3.8 billion cumulative subscribers and viewers worldwide through networks that we wholly or partially own. We distribute customized content in the U.S. and over 220 other countries and territories in 50 languages. Our global portfolio of networks includes prominent nonfiction television brands such as Discovery Channel, our most widely distributed global brand, HGTV, Food Network, TLC, Animal Planet, Investigation Discovery, Travel Channel, Science Channel, and MotorTrend (previously known as Velocity domestically and currently known as Turbo in most international countries). Among other networks in the U.S., Discovery also features two Spanish-language services, Discovery en Español and Discovery Familia. Our international portfolio also includes Eurosport, a leading sports entertainment provider and broadcaster of the Olympic Games (the "Olympics") across Europe, TVN, a Polish media company, as well as Discovery Kids, a leading children's entertainment brand in Latin America. We participate in joint ventures including the recently formed multi-platform venture with Chip and Joanna Gaines, which plans to launch linear networks, SVOD and TV Everywhere ("TVE") products in 2020; and Group Nine Media ("Group Nine"), a digital media holding company home to top digital brands including NowThis News, the Dodo, Thrillist, PopSugar, and Seeker. We operate production studios, and prior to the sale of our Education Business in April 2018, we sold curriculum-based education products and services (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

5

We generate revenues principally from the sale of advertising on our networks and digital products and from fees charged to distributors who distribute our network content, which primarily include cable, direct-to-home ("DTH") satellite, telecommunication and digital service providers, as well as through DTC subscription services. Other transactions include curriculum-based products and services, affiliate and advertising sales representation services, production studios content development and services, content licenses and the licensing of our brands for consumer products. During 2019, advertising, distribution and other revenues were 54%, 43% and 3%, respectively, of consolidated revenues. No individual customer represented more than 10% of our total consolidated revenues for 2019, 2018 or 2017.

Our objectives are to invest in high-quality content for our networks and brands to build viewership, optimize distribution revenue, capture advertising sales, and create or reposition branded channels and business to sustain long-term growth and occupy a desired content niche with strong consumer appeal. Our strategy is to maximize the distribution, ratings and profit potential of each of our branded networks. In addition to growing distribution and advertising revenues for our branded networks, we have extended content distribution across new platforms, including brand-aligned websites, online streaming, mobile devices, video on demand (“VOD”) and broadband channels, which provide promotional platforms for our television content and serve as additional outlets for advertising and distribution revenue. Audience ratings are a key driver in generating advertising revenue and creating demand on the part of cable television operators, DTH satellite operators, telecommunication service providers, and other content distributors who deliver our content to their customers. 

Our content spans genres including survival, natural history, exploration, sports, general entertainment, home, food and travel, heroes, adventure, crime and investigation, health and kids. We have an extensive library of content and own most rights to our content and footage, which enables us to leverage our library to quickly launch brands and services into new markets and on new platforms. Our content can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world on a variety of platforms. 

Although the Company utilizes certain brands and content globally, we classify our operations in two reportable segments: U.S. Networks, consisting principally of domestic television networks and digital content services, and International Networks, consisting primarily of international television networks and digital content services. Our segment presentation aligns with our management structure and the financial information management uses to make decisions about operating matters, such as the allocation of resources and business performance assessments. Financial information for our segments and the geographical areas in which we do business is set forth in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Network Brands

Subscriber statistics set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include both wholly-owned networks and networks operated by equity method investees. Domestic subscriber statistics are based on Nielsen Media Research. International subscriber and viewer statistics are derived from internal data coupled with external sources when available. As used herein, a “subscriber” is a single household that receives the applicable network from its cable television operator, DTH satellite operator, telecommunication service provider, or other television provider, including those who receive our networks from pay-TV providers without charge pursuant to various pricing plans that include free periods and/or free carriage. The term “cumulative subscribers” refers to the sum of the total number of subscribers to each of our networks or content services. By way of example, two households that each receive five of our networks from their pay-TV provider represent two subscribers, but 10 cumulative subscribers. The term "viewer" is a single household that receives the signal from one of our networks using the appropriate receiving equipment without a subscription to a pay-TV provider. 

6

Our brands consist of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Discovery Channel is dedicated to creating the highest quality non-fiction content that informs and entertains its viewers about the world in all its wonder, diversity and amazement. The network offers a signature mix of high-end production values and vivid cinematography across genres including science and technology, exploration, adventure, history and in-depth, behind-the-scenes glimpses at the people, places and organizations that shape and share our world.

•In the U.S., Discovery Channel audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are adults aged 25-54, particularly men.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•HGTV programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home-related topics, such as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate.

•In the U.S., HGTV audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are female viewers with higher incomes in the 25 to 54 age range.

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested specifically in food-related entertainment including competition and travel, as well as food-related topics such as recipes, food preparation, entertaining and dining out.

•In the U.S., Food Network audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are female viewers with higher incomes in the 25 to 54 age range.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Offering remarkable real-life stories without judgment, TLC shares everyday heart, humor, hope, and human connection with programming genres that include fascinating families, heartwarming transformations and life's milestone moments. 

•In the U.S., TLC audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are adults aged 25-54, particularly women. 

8

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Animal Planet, one of Discovery's great global brands, is dedicated to creating high quality content with global appeal delivering on its mission to keep the childhood joy and wonder of animals alive by bringing people up close in every way.

•In the U.S., Animal Planet audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are adults aged 25-54.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•ID is a leading mystery and suspense network. From harrowing crimes and salacious scandals to the in-depth investigation and heart-breaking mysteries behind these "real people, real stories," ID challenges our everyday understanding of culture, society and the human condition.

•In the U.S., ID audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are adults aged 25-54, particularly women.

9

  & [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•MotorTrend programming is engaging and informative, featuring the very best of the automotive world as told by top experts and personalities. In addition to series and specials exemplifying the very best of the automotive genre, the network broadcasts approximately 100 hours of live event coverage every year.

•In the U.S., MotorTrend audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are adults aged 25-54, particularly men.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Travel Channel is for the bold, daring and spontaneous: adventurers who embrace the thrill of the unexpected, risk-takers who aren’t afraid of a little mystery and anyone who loves a great story.

•In the U.S., Travel Channel audiences can enjoy their favorite programming anytime, anywhere through Discovery GO app which features live and on-demand access.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are adults aged 25-54.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Target viewers are African-American women aged 25-54.

U.S. NETWORKS

U.S. Networks generated revenues of $7.1 billion and adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA") of $4.1 billion during 2019, which represented 64% and 88% of our total consolidated revenues and Adjusted OIBDA, respectively. Our U.S. Networks segment principally consists of national television networks. Our U.S. Networks segment owns and operates 18 national television networks, including fully distributed television networks such as Discovery Channel, HGTV, Food Network, TLC, and Animal Planet. In addition, we operate the following U.S. Networks: MotorTrend, Investigation Discovery, Travel Channel, Science Channel, Discovery Family, American Heroes Channel ("AHC"), Destination America, Discovery Life, DIY Network, Cooking Channel, Great American Country, Discovery en Español, and Discovery Familia.

10

U.S. Networks generates revenues from fees charged to distributors of our television networks’ first run content, which includes cable, DTH satellite and telecommunication service providers, referred to as affiliate fees; fees from distributors for licensed content and content to equity method investee networks, referred to as other distribution revenue; fees from advertising sold on our television networks and digital products, which include our GO suite of TVE applications and DTC subscription products; fees from providing sales representation, network distribution services; and revenue from licensing our brands for consumer products. Our newest DTC product, Food Network Kitchen, provides multiple revenue streams including advertising and subscription fees. During 2019, advertising, distribution and other revenues were 60%, 39% and 1%, respectively, of total net revenues for this segment.

Typically, our television networks are aired pursuant to multi-year carriage agreements that provide for the level of carriage that our networks will receive and for annual graduated rate increases. Carriage of our networks depends on package inclusion, such as whether networks are on the more widely distributed, broader packages or lesser-distributed, specialized packages, also referred to as digital tiers. In the U.S., more than 95% of distribution revenues come from the top 10 distributors, with whom we have agreements that expire at various times from 2020 through 2024. Distribution fees are typically collected ratably throughout the year. We provide authenticated U.S. TVE streaming products that are available to pay-TV subscribers and connect viewers through GO applications with live and on-demand access to award-winning shows and series from 18 U.S. networks in the Discovery portfolio: Discovery Channel, HGTV, Food Network, TLC, ID, Animal Planet, Travel Channel, MotorTrend (previously known as Velocity), Science Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel, Discovery Family Channel, AHC, Destination America, Discovery Life, Discovery en Español, Discovery Familia, and the Oprah Winfrey Network ("OWN"), a consolidated subsidiary. During 2019, we achieved incremental increases in U.S. digital platform consumption. We also provide certain networks to consumers as part of subscription-based over-the-top services provided by DirectTV Now, AT&T Watch, Hulu, SlingTV, fuboTV, and YouTube TV. 

Advertising revenue is generated across multiple platforms and is based on the price received for available advertising spots and is dependent upon a number of factors including the number of subscribers to our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity of our programming, our ability to sell commercial time over a portfolio of channels and leverage multiple platforms to connect advertisers to target audiences. In the U.S., advertising time is sold in the upfront and scatter markets. In the upfront market, advertisers buy advertising time for upcoming seasons and, by committing to purchase in advance, lock in the advertising rates they will pay for the upcoming year. Many upfront advertising commitments include options whereby advertisers may reduce or increase purchase commitments. In the scatter market, advertisers buy advertising closer to the time when the commercials will be run, which often results in a pricing premium compared to the upfront rates. The mix of upfront and scatter market advertising time sold is based upon the economic conditions at the time that upfront sales take place, impacting the sell-out levels management is willing or able to obtain. The demand in the scatter market then impacts the pricing achieved for our remaining advertising inventory. Scatter market pricing can vary from upfront pricing and can be volatile.

11

INTERNATIONAL NETWORKS

International Networks generated revenues of $4.0 billion and Adjusted OIBDA of $1.1 billion during 2019, which represented 36% and 23% of our total consolidated revenues and Adjusted OIBDA, respectively. Our International Networks segment principally consists of national and pan-regional television networks and brands that are delivered across multiple distribution platforms. This segment generates revenue from operations in virtually every pay-TV market in the world through an infrastructure that includes operational centers in London, Amsterdam, Warsaw, Milan, Singapore and Miami. Global brands include Discovery Channel, Food Network, HGTV, Animal Planet, TLC, ID, Science Channel and MotorTrend (previously known as Velocity and known as Turbo outside of the U.S.), along with brands exclusive to International Networks, including Eurosport, Discovery Kids, DMAX, Discovery Home & Health, and TVN. TVN was acquired in March 2018, as part of our acquisition of Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. (the "Scripps Acquisition"). As of December 31, 2019, International Networks operates unique distribution feeds in 50 languages with channel feeds customized according to language needs and advertising sales opportunities. International Networks also has FTA networks in Europe and the Middle East and broadcast networks in Poland, Denmark, Norway and Sweden, and continues to pursue further international expansion. FTA and broadcast networks generate a significant portion of International Networks' revenue. The penetration and growth rates of television services vary across countries and territories depending on numerous factors including the dominance of different television platforms in local markets. While pay-TV services have greater penetration in certain markets, FTA or broadcast television is dominant in others. International Networks has a large international distribution platform for its 72 networks, with as many as 23 networks distributed in any particular country or territory across 220 countries and territories around the world. International Networks pursues distribution across all television platforms based on the specific dynamics of local markets and relevant commercial agreements. With the growing demand of consumer content on digital and mobile devices, a suite of international DTC products has been made available to consumers. The Eurosport Player is a video streaming service offering premium and localized sports to fans in 52 markets in Europe. Dplay, our real-life entertainment streaming service, is now available in 10 markets including the U.K., Ireland, Spain, the Nordics, Japan and Italy. Dplay allows fans to access Discovery shows live and on-demand, anytime, anywhere. In Germany, we have partnered with ProSiebenSat.1 to launch the streaming service, Joyn, which offers the largest collection of free-TV content, with programming and live streams from more than 50 channels. In Poland, we have partnered with Cyfrow Polsat to create a video streaming platform that when launched, following regulatory clearance, will give viewers a single destination to access Polish content including movies, series, documentaries, sports and entertainment. 

Effective January 1, 2018, we realigned our International Networks management reporting structure, which was not affected by the Scripps Acquisition. The table below represents the reporting structures during the periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12

In addition to the global networks described in the overview section above, we operate networks internationally that utilize the following brands:

•For 30 years, Eurosport has established itself as a household name for live sports entertainment, reaching millions of fans across Europe and Asia via Eurosport 1, Eurosport 2, the network's DTC streaming service, "Eurosport Player" and Eurosport.com. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Live, exclusive and premium sports is at the core of what Eurosport does, showcasing sporting events with both local and pan-regional appeal. Viewers in Europe can enjoy live action from some of the best sporting spectacles including all of cycling's Grand Tours such as the Tour de France, every International Ski Federation World Cup and World Championship event during the winter season, as well as unrivaled coverage of all four Grand Slam tennis tournaments. 

•Increasingly, Eurosport is investing in more exclusive and localized rights to drive local audience and commercial relevance. Important local sports rights include soccer leagues such as Eliteserien in Norway, Allsvenskan in Sweden and European Europa League in Sweden, and year-round ATP World Tour tennis in France, Czech Republic, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Romania, Russia, Slovakia and Sweden.

•Two-and-a-half years after securing the rights that led to Eurosport becoming the Home of the Olympics in Europe spanning four Games (2018 through 2024), Eurosport delivered its first Olympic Games in PyeongChang Olympic Winter Games. PyeongChang 2018 represented an opportunity to engage sports fans across Europe as well as new and younger audiences. The Eurosport Player was the only place to watch every minute from South Korea while sub-license agreements with some of Europe’s biggest national broadcasters realized Discovery’s objective to engage more people on more screens with the Winter Games than ever before.

•Later this year, Discovery will present its first Olympic Summer Games, Tokyo 2020, in 50 markets and 19 languages across Europe. Eurosport’s digital services will be the exclusive home of every minute of the Games, utilizing its unrivaled on-screen expertise and innovative analysis technology to deliver the ultimate Games experience for fans. Discovery channels and platforms, such as its free-to-air networks in the Nordics and DPlay in multiple markets, will also showcase the Olympics and contribute to bringing the Olympic Summer Games to more people, on more screens, than ever before in Europe.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•DMAX is a men’s factual entertainment channel in Asia and Europe.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Discovery Kids is a leading children's network in Latin America and Asia.

13

•TVN operates a portfolio of free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle, entertainment, and news networks in Poland, including TVN, TVN7, TTV, HGTV Home & Garden, TVN24, TVN Style, TVN Turbo, TVN24 BiS, TVN Fabu³a, Travel Channel, Food Network, iTVN and iTVNExtra.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our International Networks segment also owns and operates the following television networks, which reached the following number of subscribers and viewers via pay and FTA or broadcast networks, respectively, as of December 31, 2019: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Number of subscribers corresponds to the sum of the subscribers to each of the Nordic broadcast networks in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark subject to retransmission agreements with pay-TV providers. The Nordic broadcast networks include Kanal 5, Kanal 9, and Kanal 11 in Sweden, TVNorge, MAX, FEM and VOX in Norway, TV 5, Kutonen, and Frii in Finland, and Kanal 4, Kanal 5, 6'eren, and Canal 9 in Denmark. 

14

Similar to U.S. Networks, a significant source of revenue for International Networks relates to fees charged to operators who distribute our linear networks. Such operators primarily include cable and DTH satellite service providers. International television markets vary in their stages of development. Some markets, such as the U.K., are more advanced digital television markets, while others remain in the analog environment with varying degrees of investment from operators to expand channel capacity or convert to digital technologies. Common practice in some markets results in long-term contractual distribution relationships, while customers in other markets renew contracts annually. Distribution revenue for our International Networks segment is largely dependent on the number of subscribers that receive our networks or content, the rates negotiated in the distributor agreements, and the market demand for the content that we provide. International Networks additionally generates revenues through DTC subscription services.

The other significant source of revenue for International Networks relates to advertising sold on our television networks and across distribution platforms, similar to U.S. Networks. Advertising revenue is dependent upon a number of factors, including the development of pay and FTA television markets, the number of subscribers to and viewers of our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity of our programming, and our ability to sell commercial time over a portfolio of channels on multiple platforms. In certain markets, our advertising sales business operates with in-house sales teams, while we rely on external sales representation services in other markets. Outside the U.S., advertisers typically buy advertising closer to the time when the commercials will be run. In developing pay-TV markets, we expect advertising revenue growth will result from subscriber growth, our localization strategy, and the shift of advertising spending from broadcast to pay-TV. In mature markets, such as Western Europe, high proportions of market penetration and distribution are unlikely to drive rapid revenue growth. Instead, growth in advertising sales comes from increasing viewership and pricing and launching new services, either in pay-TV, broadcast, or FTA television environments.

During 2019, advertising, distribution and other revenues were 45%, 52% and 3%, respectively, of total net revenues for this segment. While the Company has traditionally operated cable networks, in recent years an increasing portion of the Company's international advertising revenue is generated by FTA or broadcast networks, unlike U.S. Networks. During 2019, pay-TV networks generated 36% of International Networks' advertising revenue and FTA or broadcast networks generated 64% of International Networks' advertising revenue. The Company also has increased efforts to drive revenue growth from digital products such as the Dplay DTC entertainment service in select international markets.

International Networks' largest cost is content expense for localized programming. While our International Networks segment maximizes the use of programming from U.S. Networks, we also develop local programming that is tailored to individual market preferences and license the rights to air films, television series and sporting events from third parties. International Networks amortizes the cost of capitalized content rights based on the proportion of current estimated revenues relative to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues, which results in either an accelerated method or a straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the content of up to four years. Content acquired from U.S. Networks and content developed locally airing on the same network is amortized similarly, as amortization rates vary by network. More than half of International Networks' content is amortized using an accelerated amortization method, while the remainder is amortized on a straight-line basis. The costs for multi-year sports programming arrangements are expensed when the event is broadcast based on the estimated relative value of each component of the arrangement.

International television markets vary in their stages of development. Some, notably the U.K., are more advanced digital multi-channel television markets, while others operate in the analog environment with varying degrees of investment from distributors in expanding channel capacity or converting to digital. While International Networks and U.S. Networks have similarities with respect to the nature of operations, the generation of revenue and the categories of expense, International Networks have a lower segment margin due to lower economies of scale from being in 220 markets requiring additional cost for localization to satisfy market variations. International Networks also include sports and FTA broadcast channels, which drive higher costs from sports rights and production and investment in broad entertainment programming for broadcast networks.

In June 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly referred to as “Brexit.” E.U. law provides for a departing member state to have a two-year notice period to negotiate a term of exit, which the U.K. triggered in March 2017 and subsequently extended. In October 2019, a revised draft withdrawal agreement was published detailing the framework of the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. This agreement was ratified by the U.K. and European Parliaments and on January 31, 2020, the U.K. formally left the E.U. Brexit may have an adverse impact on advertising, subscribers, distributors and employees, as described in Item 1A, Risk Factors, below. The withdrawal agreement includes a transitional period until December 2020, which could mitigate against some of these impacts. Discovery, like many international media businesses, has sought to mitigate this risk by applying for broadcast licenses in remaining E.U. member states. We have been operating our E.U. pay-TV channels under Dutch jurisdiction since March 2019. Those of our E.U. free to air channels which were licensed by the U.K. authority from Ofcom will move to a jurisdiction within the E.U. later this year. We continue to monitor the situation for potential effects to our distribution and licensing agreements, unusual foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and changes to the legal and regulatory landscape.

15

OTHER

Other generated revenues of $11 million during 2019. Other is comprised of a production studio that develops content for our networks and other television service providers throughout the world. Our wholly-owned production studio provides services to our U.S. Networks and International Networks segments at cost. The revenues and offsetting expenses associated with these inter-segment production services have been eliminated from the results of operations for Other. Our Education Business was comprised of curriculum-based product and service offerings and generates revenues primarily from subscriptions charged to K-12 schools for access to an online suite of curriculum-based VOD tools, professional development services, digital textbooks and, to a lesser extent, student assessments and publication of hard copy curriculum-based content. In 2018, we sold an 88% controlling equity stake in our Education Business to Francisco Partners for a sale price of $113 million, which resulted in a gain of $84 million upon disposition. We retained a 12% ownership interest in the Education Business, which is accounted for as an equity method investment. (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) 

In 2017, the Company sold Raw and Betty LLC to All3Media. All3Media is a U.K. based television, film and digital production and distribution company. The Company owns 50% of All3Media and accounts for its investment in All3Media under the equity method of accounting. 

CONTENT DEVELOPMENT

Our content development strategy is designed to increase viewership, maintain innovation and quality leadership, and provide value for our network distributors and advertising customers. Our content is sourced from a wide range of third-party producers, which include some of the world’s leading nonfiction production companies, as well as independent producers and wholly-owned production studios. 

Our production arrangements fall into three categories: produced, coproduced and licensed. Produced content includes content that we engage third parties or wholly owned production studios to develop and produce. We retain editorial control and own most or all of the rights, in exchange for paying all development and production costs. Production of digital-first content such as virtual reality and short-form video is typically done through wholly-owned production studios. Coproduced content refers to program rights on which we have collaborated with third parties to finance and develop either because world-wide rights are not available for acquisition or we save costs by collaborating with third parties. Licensed content is comprised of films or series that have been produced by third parties. Payments for sports rights made in advance of the event are recognized as prepaid content license assets. 

International Networks maximizes the use of content from our U.S. Networks. Our non-fiction content tends to be culturally neutral and maintains its relevance for an extended period of time. As a result, a significant amount of our non-fiction content translates well across international borders and is made even more accessible through extensive use of dubbing and subtitles in local languages. Our content can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world. International Networks executes a localization strategy by offering content from U.S. Networks, customized content and localized schedules via our distribution feeds. While our International Networks segment maximizes the use of content from U.S. Networks, we also develop local content that is tailored to individual market preferences and license the rights to air films, television series and sporting events from third-party producers. To that end, during 2018, we entered into a 12-year partnership with the PGA Tour that includes TV and online rights to the PGA Tour outside the United States. Effective January 1, 2019, we announced the launch of GOLFTV, a new live and on-demand international video streaming service providing over 2,000 hours of live golf programming each year and extensive premium content on-demand. Discovery plans to invest more than $2 billion over the course of the partnership, including licensing rights and building the GOLFTV platform.

Our largest single expense is content, which includes content amortization, content impairment and production costs. We amortize the cost of capitalized content rights based on the proportion that the current year's estimated revenues bear to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues, which normally results in an accelerated amortization method over the estimated useful lives. However, certain networks also utilize a straight-line method of amortization over the estimated useful lives of the content. Content is amortized primarily over periods of two to four years. The costs for multi-year sports programming arrangements are expensed when the event is broadcast based on the estimated relative value of each season in the arrangement. Content assets are reviewed for impairment when impairment indicators are present, such as low viewership or limited expected use. Impairment losses are recorded when content asset carrying value exceeds net realizable value.

16

COMPETITION

Providing content across various distribution platforms is a highly competitive business worldwide. We experience competition for the development and acquisition of content, distribution of our content, sale of commercial time on our networks and viewership. There is competition from other production studios, other television networks, and online-based content providers for the acquisition of content and creative talent such as writers, producers and directors. Our ability to produce and acquire popular content is an important competitive factor for the distribution of our content, attracting viewers and the sale of advertising. Our success in securing popular content and creative talent depends on various factors such as the number of competitors providing content that targets the same genre and audience, the distribution of our content, viewership, and the production, marketing and advertising support we provide.

Our networks compete with other television networks, including broadcast, cable and local, for the distribution of our content and fees charged to cable television operators, DTH satellite service providers, and other distributors that carry our content. Our ability to secure distribution agreements is necessary to ensure the retention of our audiences. Our contractual agreements with distributors are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Growth in the number of networks distributed, consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry, and increased popularity of other platforms may adversely affect our ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of our content that are as favorable as those currently in place. The ability to secure distribution agreements is dependent upon the production, acquisition and packaging of original content, viewership, the marketing and advertising support and incentives provided to distributors, the product offering across a series of networks within a region, and the prices charged for carriage.

Our networks and digital products compete for the sale of advertising with other television networks, including broadcast, cable, local networks, and other content distribution outlets for their target audiences and the sale of advertising. Our success in selling advertising is a function of the size and demographics of our audiences, quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the audience of each network, the perceived quality of the network and of the particular content, the brand appeal of the network and ratings as determined by third-party research companies, prices charged for advertising and overall advertiser demand in the marketplace.

Our networks and digital products also compete for their target audiences with all forms of content and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast, cable and local networks, pay-per-view and VOD services, DVDs, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment.

Our production studios compete with other production and media companies for talent. Prior to the sale of the Education Business in 2018, we competed with other providers of curriculum-based products and services to schools. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our intellectual property assets include copyrights in content, trademarks in brands, names and logos, technology platforms, websites, and licenses of intellectual property rights from third parties.

We are fundamentally a content company and the protection of our brands and content is of primary importance. We have also made and will continue to make investments in developing technology platforms to support our digital products and DTC offerings and consider these platforms to be one of our intellectual property assets. To protect our intellectual property assets, we rely upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, trade secret and Internet/domain name statutes and laws, and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related intellectual property is difficult and costly. We seek to limit unauthorized use of our intellectual property through a combination of approaches. However, the steps taken to prevent the infringement of our intellectual property by unauthorized third parties may not be effective.

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property from time to time, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses the theft of our signal, and unauthorized use of our content, in the digital environment continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on our intellectual property. We use external vendors to detect and remove infringing content and leverage our membership in a range of industry groups to address piracy issues.

17

REGULATORY MATTERS

Our businesses are subject to and affected by regulations of U.S. federal, state and local government authorities, and our international operations are subject to laws and regulations of the countries and international bodies, such as the E.U., in which we operate. Content networks, such as those owned by us, are regulated by the FCC including some regulations that only apply to content networks affiliated with a cable television operator. Other FCC regulations, although imposed on cable television operators and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators and other distributors, affect content networks indirectly. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting our businesses are constantly subject to change. These descriptions are summary in nature and do not purport to describe all present and proposed laws and regulations affecting our businesses.

Program Access

The FCC’s program access rules prevent a satellite-delivered content vendor in which a cable operator has an “attributable” ownership interest from discriminating against unaffiliated multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”), such as cable and DBS operators, in the rates, terms and conditions for the sale or delivery of content. These rules permit the unaffiliated MVPD to initiate a complaint to the FCC against content networks if it believes this rule has been violated. The FCC allowed a previous blanket prohibition on exclusive arrangements between content networks subject to these rules and cable operators to expire in October 2012, but will consider case-by-case complaints that exclusive contracts between cable operators and cable-affiliated programmers significantly hinder or prevent an unaffiliated MVPD from providing satellite or cable programming.

“Must-Carry”/Retransmission Consent

The Communications Act (the “Act”) imposes “must-carry” regulations on cable systems, requiring them to carry the signals of most local broadcast television stations in their market. DBS systems are also subject to their own must-carry rules. The FCC’s implementation of “must-carry” obligations requires cable operators and DBS providers to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space and favorable channel positions. This reduces the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our networks by cable and DBS operators. The Act also gives broadcasters the choice of opting out of must-carry and invoking the right to retransmission consent, which refers to a broadcaster’s right to require MVPDs, such as cable and satellite operators, to obtain the broadcaster's consent before distributing the broadcaster's signal to the MVPDs' subscribers. Broadcasters have traditionally used the resulting leverage from demand for their must-have broadcast content to obtain carriage for their affiliated networks. Increasingly, broadcasters are additionally seeking substantial monetary compensation for granting carriage rights for their must-have broadcast content. Such increased financial demands on distributors reduce the content funds available for independent programmers not affiliated with broadcasters, such as us.

Accessibility and Advertising Restrictions

Certain of our content networks and some of our IP-delivered video content must provide closed-captioning and video description of some of their programming. Our content networks and digital products intended primarily for children 12 years of age and under must comply with certain limits on advertising. Commercials embedded in our networks’ content stream must adhere to certain standards for ensuring that those commercials are not transmitted at louder volumes than our program material. 

Obscenity Restrictions

Network distributors are prohibited from transmitting obscene content, and our distribution agreements generally require us to refrain from including such content on our networks.

Regulation of Digital Services

We operate a variety of free, advertising-based and subscription-based digital products and services providing information, entertainment, e-commerce and interactive experiences to consumers in the U.S. and international markets via web, mobile and connected TV platforms. Our digital services are subject to federal and state regulation in the U.S. relating to the privacy and security of personal information collected from our users, including laws pertaining to the acquisition of personal information from children under 13, such as the federal Children's Online Privacy Protection Act ("COPPA") and the federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act, and that impose data security and security breach obligations on the Company. Additional federal and state laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to our digital services, covering such issues as data privacy and security, child safety, advertising, pricing, content, copyrights and trademarks, access by persons with disabilities, distribution, taxation and characteristics and quality of products and services. Our digital products and services available to consumers in international markets are also subject to the laws and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, including, without limitation, consumer protection, data privacy and security, advertising, intellectual property, and content limitations. We must design and operate our digital products and websites in compliance with these laws and regulations. 

18

Foreign Laws and Regulations

The foreign jurisdictions in which our networks are offered have, in varying degrees, laws and regulations governing our businesses. 

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 9,200 employees, including full-time and part-time employees of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and consolidated ventures. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

All of our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and all amendments to such filings are available free of charge at the investor relations section of our website, https://corporate.discovery.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our annual report, corporate governance guidelines, code of business ethics, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, and nominating and corporate governance committee charter are also available on our website. In addition, we will provide a printed copy of any of these documents, free of charge, upon written request to: Investor Relations, Discovery, Inc., 850 Third Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10022-7225. Additionally, the SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains quarterly, annual and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including the Company. 

The information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference herein.

19

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.