ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes. This section provides additional information regarding our businesses, current developments, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, contractual commitments and critical accounting policies.

A discussion of our results of operations and liquidity for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed on March 1, 2019, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at ir.corporate.discovery.com.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

We are a global media company that provides content across multiple distribution platforms, including linear platforms such as pay-TV, FTA and broadcast television, authenticated TVE applications, digital distribution arrangements, content licensing arrangements and DTC subscription products. For a discussion of our global portfolio of networks and joint ventures see our business overview set forth in Item 1, “Business” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

 Our objectives are to invest in content for our networks to build viewership, optimize distribution revenue, capture advertising sales and create or reposition branded channels and businesses that can sustain long-term growth and occupy a desired content niche with strong consumer appeal. Our strategy is to maximize the distribution, ratings and profit potential of each of our branded networks. In addition to growing distribution and advertising revenues for our branded networks, we are extending content distribution across new platforms, including brand-aligned websites, on-line streaming, mobile devices, VOD and broadband channels, which provide promotional platforms for our television content and serve as additional outlets for advertising and distribution revenue. Audience ratings are a key driver in generating advertising revenue and creating demand on the part of cable television operators, DTH satellite operators, telecommunication service providers, and other content distributors, that deliver our content to their customers.

Our content spans genres including survival, natural history, exploration, sports, general entertainment, home, food and travel, heroes, adventure, crime and investigation, health and kids. We have an extensive library of high-definition content and own rights to much of our content and footage, which enables us to exploit our library to launch brands and services into new markets quickly. Our content can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world on a variety of platforms. 

Although the Company utilizes certain brands and content globally, we classify our operations in two reportable segments: U.S. Networks, consisting principally of domestic television networks and digital distribution arrangements, and International Networks, consisting primarily of international television networks and digital distribution arrangements. In addition, Other consists principally of a production studio, and prior to the sale of the Education Business in April 2018, curriculum-based education products and services (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) Our segment presentation aligns with our management structure and the financial information management uses to make strategic and operating decisions, such as the allocation of resources and business performance assessments. For further discussion of our Company, segments in which we do business, and our content development activities and revenues, see our business overview set forth in Item 1, "Business" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The discussion below compares our actual results for the year ended December 31, 2019 to the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as our actual results for the year ended December 31, 2019 to pro forma combined results for the year ended December 31, 2018, as if the Scripps Networks acquisition occurred on January 1, 2017. Scripps Networks was acquired on March 6, 2018. Management believes reviewing our actual operating results in addition to combined pro forma results is useful in identifying trends in, or reaching conclusions regarding, the overall operating performance of our businesses. Our combined U.S. Networks, International Networks and Corporate and Inter-Segment Eliminations pro forma information is based on the historical operating results of the respective businesses as applicable to each segment and includes adjustments directly attributable to the prior year Scripps Networks acquisition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2017, such as:

1.The impact of the purchase price allocation to the fair value of assets, liabilities, and noncontrolling interests, such as intangible amortization;

2.Adjustments to remove items associated with the acquisition of Scripps Networks that will not have a continuing impact on the combined entity, such as transaction costs and the impact of employee retention agreements; and

3.Changes to align accounting policies. 

38

Adjustments do not include costs related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses. Pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of what our results would have been had we operated Scripps Networks since January 1, 2017 and should not be taken as indicative of the Company's future consolidated results of operations.

Consolidated Results of Operations – 2019 vs. 2018

Our consolidated results of operations for 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM - Not meaningful

39

Revenues

Our advertising revenue is generated across multiple platforms and consists of consumer advertising, which is sold primarily on a national basis in the U.S. and on a pan-regional or local-language feed basis outside the U.S. Advertising contracts generally have a term of one year or less. Advertising revenue is dependent upon a number of factors, including the stage of development of television markets, the popularity of FTA television, the number of subscribers to our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity of our content and our ability to sell commercial time over a group of channels. Revenue from advertising is subject to seasonality, market-based variations, the mix in sales of commercial time between the upfront and scatter markets, and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters. In some cases, advertising sales are subject to ratings guarantees that require us to provide additional advertising time if the guaranteed audience levels are not achieved. We also generate revenue from the sale of advertising through our digital products on a stand-alone basis and as part of advertising packages with our television networks.

Advertising revenue increased 10% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, advertising revenue increased 12%. On a pro forma combined basis excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, advertising revenue increased 3%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the increase was primarily a result of an increase of 3% and 4% at U.S. Networks and International Networks, respectively. Increases at U.S. Networks were attributable to increases in pricing, and to a lesser extent, the continued monetization of digital content offerings and inventory, partially offset by lower overall ratings and the secular declines in the pay television ecosystem. Increases at International Networks were primarily driven by the consolidation of the UKTV Lifestyle Business, growth in DTC initiatives and to a lesser extent, higher pricing in certain markets in Europe, partially offset by the impact of the Olympics in 2018.

Distribution revenue consists principally of fees from affiliates for distributing our linear networks, supplemented by revenue earned from SVOD content licensing and other emerging forms of digital distribution. The largest component of distribution revenue is comprised of linear distribution services for rights to our networks from cable, DTH satellite and telecommunication service providers. We have contracts with distributors representing most cable and satellite service providers around the world, including the largest operators in the U.S. and major international distributors. Distribution revenues are largely dependent on the rates negotiated in the agreements, the number of subscribers that receive our networks or content, the number of platforms covered in the distribution agreement, and the market demand for the content that we provide. From time to time, renewals of multi-year carriage agreements include significant year one market adjustments to re-set subscriber rates, which then increase at rates lower than the initial increase in the following years. In some cases, we have provided distributors launch incentives, in the form of cash payments or free periods, to carry our networks. Distribution revenue also includes fees charged for bulk content arrangements and other subscription services for episodic content. These digital distribution revenues are impacted by the quantity, as well as the quality, of the content we provide.

Distribution revenue increased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, distribution revenue increased 9%. On a pro forma combined basis excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, distribution revenue increased 5%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the increase was primarily a result of an increase of 5% at both U.S. Networks and International Networks. Increases at U.S. Networks were attributable to increases in contractual affiliate rates and additional carriage on virtual multichannel video programming distributors, partially offset by a decline in overall subscribers. Increases at International Networks were primarily attributable to the impact of certain content licensing arrangements in our Latin America business unit, higher affiliate rates in Europe and monetization of DTC initiatives in Europe and Asia.

We also generate other revenue associated with content production from our production studio. Prior to the sale of the Education Business in April 2018, we generated other revenue from curriculum-based products and services, the licensing of our brands for consumer products and third-party content sales.

Other revenue decreased 47% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, other revenue decreased 45%. On a pro forma combined basis excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, other revenue decreased 47%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the decrease was primarily a result of decreases of 29% and 50% at U.S. Networks and International Networks, respectively. The decreases were primarily attributable to the impact of sublicensing of Olympics sports rights in 2018.

Revenue for our segments is discussed separately below under the heading “Segment Results of Operations.”

Costs of Revenues

Our principal component of costs of revenues is content expense. Content expense includes television series, television specials, films, sporting events and digital products. The costs of producing a content asset and bringing that asset to market consist of film costs, participation costs, exploitation costs and manufacturing costs.

40

Costs of revenues decreased 3% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, costs of revenue decreased 1%. On a pro forma combined basis excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, costs of revenue decreased 6%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the decrease was primarily a result of a decrease of 5% and 6% at U.S. Networks and International Networks, respectively. As reported content rights expense was $2.9 billion for each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Decreases at U.S. Networks were primarily driven by lower content amortization due to content synergies related to the integration of Scripps Networks. Decreases at International Networks were primarily attributable to the impact of costs related to the Olympics in 2018, partially offset by higher investments in linear content and our DTC initiatives, and consolidation of the UKTV Lifestyle Business.

Selling, General and Administrative

Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee costs, marketing costs, research costs, occupancy and back office support fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 6% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general and administrative increased 11%. On a pro forma combined basis excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the increase was primarily a result of an increase of 11% at International Networks, partially offset by a 3% decline at U.S. Networks. Increases at International Networks were primarily due to investments in technology and personnel as well as higher marketing expenses driven by subscriber acquisition costs for our DTC initiatives, partially offset by the Olympics and certain channel launches in Asia in 2018. Decreases at U.S. Networks were primarily driven by cost reductions in personnel, technology and professional services fees, partially offset by higher marketing expenses in support of our DTC initiatives.

Impairment of Goodwill

Goodwill impairment expense of $155 million was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2019. There was no goodwill impairment expense recorded for the year ended December 31, 2018. (See Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. Depreciation and amortization decreased 4% for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease is primarily attributable to amortization related to the advertising revenue backlog intangible recorded as part of the acquisition of Scripps Networks, which had a one-year useful life and was fully amortized during the first quarter of 2019.

Restructuring and Other Charges

Restructuring and other charges were $26 million and $750 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The restructuring and other charges for the year ended December 31, 2018 included content impairments associated with changes in programming strategies, involuntary severance actions associated with the integration of Scripps Networks, costs associated with the termination of long-term programming arrangements, and lease exit costs.

Gain on Disposition

There was no gain on disposition for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2018 there was a gain of $84 million due to the sale of a controlling stake in the Education Business in April 2018. (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

Interest Expense, net

Interest expense decreased 7% during the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily attributable to interest income related to the change in fair value of the Company's cross currency swaps and an overall reduction in debt levels. (See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) 

Loss from Equity Investees, net 

We reported losses from our equity method investees of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to losses of $63 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The changes are attributable to the Company's share of earnings and losses from its equity investees. (See Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

41

Other Expense, net 

The table below presents the details of other income (expense), net (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Taxes 

The following table reconciles the Company's effective income tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income tax expense was $81 million and $341 million, and our effective tax rate was 4% and 33% for 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to the discrete, one-time, non-cash deferred tax benefit of $445 million from legal entity restructurings discussed below. Additionally, the decrease in income tax expense was attributable to a decrease in the provision for uncertain tax positions and a decrease in the effect of foreign operations, which was mainly driven by the establishment of certain valuation allowances during the year ended December 31, 2018 that did not recur in 2019, and a tax benefit realized during the year ended December 31, 2019 from the final regulations related to the determination of the foreign tax credit released by the U.S. Treasury department and IRS in December 2019. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in income and the impact of a goodwill impairment charge that was non-deductible for tax purposes during the year ended December 31, 2019. Finally, the income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 included a one-time discrete tax benefit from U.S. legislative changes that extended the accelerated deduction of qualified film productions.

42

We carried out numerous internal transactions during the year ended December 31, 2019 that were intended to integrate assets acquired from the Scripps Networks business with the Discovery business; streamline and simplify our corporate entity structures; simplify our internal financing structures; respond to the expected exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union; make our managerial structures and processes more efficient and nimble; and reduce costs associated with the maintenance of legal entities. These transactions included mergers, liquidations, and intercompany sales among members of the consolidated Discovery group. Some of these transactions have resulted in changes in certain of our deferred tax items, which are based on differences between the book versus tax bases of the assets and liabilities and on certain tax attributes, such as net operating loss carryovers. The items involved in these restructurings relate to a variety of jurisdictions in our International Networks segment. Recent changes in accounting for intercompany transactions have also impacted our effective tax rate. For example, following our adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-16, effective January 1, 2018, the income tax effects of intercompany transfers will be recognized in the period in which the transfer occurs, rather than amortized over time, which will increase the impact of such transfers on our effective tax rate in the periods in which the transfers occur. Moreover, U.S. tax reform has a continued effect as the U.S. Treasury Department issues final regulations clarifying application of the new law; and several tax controversies have come to resolution. The net effect of the various changes in our deferred tax balances and related valuation allowances has been the recognition of a one-time, non-cash deferred income tax benefit of $445 million during the year ended December 31, 2019.

Segment Results of Operations – 2019 vs. 2018

We evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments based on financial measures such as revenues and Adjusted OIBDA. Adjusted OIBDA is defined as operating income excluding: (i) employee share-based compensation, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) restructuring and other charges, (iv) certain impairment charges, (v) gains and losses on business and asset dispositions, (vi) certain inter-segment eliminations related to production studios, (vii) third-party transaction costs directly related to the acquisition and integration of Scripps Networks and other transactions, and (viii) other items impacting comparability, such as the non-cash settlement of a withholding tax claim. We use this measure to assess the operating results and performance of our segments, perform analytical comparisons, identify strategies to improve performance, and allocate resources to each segment. We believe Adjusted OIBDA is relevant to investors because it allows them to analyze the operating performance of each segment using the same metric management uses. We exclude share-based compensation, restructuring and other charges, certain impairment charges, gains and losses on business and asset dispositions, and acquisition and integration costs from the calculation of Adjusted OIBDA due to their impact on comparability between periods. We also exclude the depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets, as these amounts do not represent cash payments in the current reporting period. Certain corporate expenses and inter-segment eliminations related to production studios are excluded from segment results to enable executive management to evaluate segment performance based upon the decisions of segment executives.

Adjusted OIBDA should be considered in addition to, but not a substitute for, operating income, net income and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). 

Effective January 1, 2019, our definition of Adjusted OIBDA was modified to exclude all employee share-based compensation, whereas only mark-to-market share-based compensation was previously excluded. Over time, the Company has moved to a higher percentage of equity-classified awards (in lieu of liability-classified awards, which require mark-to-market accounting) under its stock incentive plans and expects to continue this practice in future periods. Since most equity classified awards are non-cash expenses not entirely under management control, we have elected to exclude all share-based compensation from Adjusted OIBDA beginning in 2019. The revised definition of Adjusted OIBDA was used by our chief operating decision maker in evaluating segment performance in 2019. Accordingly, prior period amounts have been recast to reflect the current definition.

Additional financial information for our segments and geographical areas in which we do business is discussed in Note 23 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

43

The table below presents our Adjusted OIBDA by segment, with a reconciliation of consolidated net income available to Discovery, Inc. to total Adjusted OIBDA (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table below presents the calculation of total Adjusted OIBDA (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Selling, general and administrative expenses exclude employee share-based compensation, third-party transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition of Scripps Networks and other transactions, and for 2019, exclude the settlement of a withholding tax claim.

44

U.S. Networks

The table below presents, for our U.S. Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues

As reported advertising revenue increased 13% for the year ended December 31, 2019. On a pro forma combined basis, advertising revenue increased 3%. The increases for such periods were attributable to increases in pricing, and to a lesser extent, the continued monetization of digital content offerings and inventory, partially offset by lower overall ratings and secular declines in the pay television ecosystem. On an as reported basis, advertising revenue was additionally impacted by the prior year acquisition of Scripps Networks.

As reported distribution revenue increased 12% for the year ended December 31, 2019. On a pro forma combined basis, distribution revenue increased 5%. The increases for such periods were attributable to increases in contractual affiliate rates and additional carriage on virtual multichannel video programming distributors, partially offset by a decline in overall subscribers. On an as reported basis, distribution revenue was additionally impacted by the prior year acquisition of Scripps Networks. Total portfolio subscribers declined 5% for the year ended December 31, 2019, while subscribers to our fully distributed networks declined 3% for the same period.

As reported other revenue decreased $37 million. On a pro forma combined basis, other revenue decreased $44 million.

Costs of Revenues

As reported costs of revenues increased 3% for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to the prior year acquisition of Scripps Networks. On a pro forma combined basis, costs of revenues decreased 5%, primarily driven by lower content amortization due to content synergies related to the integration of Scripps Networks. Content expense was $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Pro forma combined content expense was $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Content impairment is generally a component of costs of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. However, during the year ended December 31, 2018, content impairments of $221 million were reflected as a component of restructuring and other charges as a result of the strategic programming changes following the acquisition of Scripps Networks. No content impairments were recorded as a component of restructuring and other charges during the year ended December 31, 2019.

45

Selling, General and Administrative

As reported selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to the prior year acquisition of Scripps Networks. On a pro forma combined basis, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3%, primarily as a result of cost reductions in personnel, technology and professional services fees, partially offset by higher marketing expenses in support of our DTC initiatives.

Adjusted OIBDA

Adjusted OIBDA increased 18%, primarily due to the factors described above. On a pro forma combined basis, adjusted OIBDA increased 10%.

International Networks

The following table presents, for our International Networks segment, revenues by type, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues

As reported advertising revenue increased 2% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, advertising revenue increased 8%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, advertising revenue increased 4%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the increase was primarily driven by the consolidation of the UKTV Lifestyle Business, growth in DTC initiatives and, to a lesser extent, higher pricing in certain markets in Europe, partially offset by the impact of the Olympics in 2018.

As reported distribution revenue increased 1% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, distribution revenue increased 7%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, distribution revenue increased 5%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the increase was primarily attributable to the impact of certain content licensing arrangements in our Latin America business unit, higher affiliate rates in Europe and monetization of DTC initiatives in Europe and Asia. 

As reported other revenue decreased $156 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, other revenue decreased $140 million. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, other revenue decreased $152 million. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the decrease in other revenue was primarily attributable to the impact of sublicensing of Olympics sports rights in 2018.

46

Costs of Revenues

As reported costs of revenues decreased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, costs of revenues decreased 3%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, costs of revenues decreased 6%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the decrease was primarily attributable to the impact of costs related to the Olympics in 2018, partially offset by higher investments in linear content and our DTC initiatives and the consolidation of the UKTV Lifestyle Business. As reported content rights expense was $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Content impairment is generally a component of costs of revenue on the consolidated statements of operations. However, during the year ended December 31, 2018, content impairments of $184 million were reflected as a component of restructuring and other charges as a result of the strategic programming changes following the acquisition of Scripps Networks. No content impairments were recorded as a component of restructuring and other charges during the year ended December 31, 2019.

Selling, General and Administrative

As reported selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general, and administrative expenses increased 13%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 11%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the increase was primarily due to investments in technology and personnel as well as higher marketing expenses driven by subscriber acquisition costs for our DTC initiatives, partially offset by the Olympics and certain channel launches in Asia in 2018.

Adjusted OIBDA

Adjusted OIBDA decreased 2% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, adjusted OIBDA increased 8%. On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, adjusted OIBDA increased 5%, primarily due to the factors above.

Other

The following table presents revenues, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA, and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating income (in millions) for Other.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Subsequent to the sale of an 88% stake in the Education Business resulting in deconsolidation in 2018, Other only includes activities associated with intercompany sales of productions for our U.S. Networks segment. 

47

Corporate and Inter-segment Eliminations

The following table presents our unallocated corporate amounts including revenue, certain operating expenses, Adjusted OIBDA and a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to operating loss (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Corporate operations primarily consist of executive management, administrative support services, substantially all of our share-based compensation and transaction and integration costs related to the acquisition of Scripps Networks. 

The Adjusted OIBDA decreased 29% in 2019 as compared to 2018. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and on a pro forma combined basis adjusted OIBDA decreased 24%, the decreases were primarily due to transformation projects related to technology infrastructure and software development, facilities-related expenses due to real estate consolidation, and higher professional services fees. 

Items Impacting Comparability

The impact of exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons of our results. For example, our international revenues are favorably impacted as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably impacted as the U.S dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis (ex-FX), in addition to results reported in accordance with GAAP provides useful information about our operating performance because the presentation ex-FX excludes the effects of foreign currency volatility and highlights our core operating results. The presentation of results on a constant currency basis should be considered in addition to, but not a substitute for, measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. 

The ex-FX change represents the percentage change on a period-over-period basis adjusted for foreign currency impacts. The ex-FX change is calculated as the difference between the current year amounts translated at a baseline rate, which is a spot rate for each of our currencies determined early in the fiscal year as part of our forecasting process (the “2019 Baseline Rate”), and the prior year amounts translated at the same 2019 Baseline Rate. In addition, consistent with the assumption of a constant currency environment, our ex-FX results exclude the impact of our foreign currency hedging activities, as well as realized and unrealized foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Selling, general and administrative expense, as presented below, excludes share-based compensation and transaction and integration costs related to Scripps Networks and other transactions due to their impact on comparability between periods.

48

The impact of foreign currency on the comparability of our consolidated results is as follows (dollar amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The impact of foreign currency on the comparability of our financial results for International Networks is as follows (dollar amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity

Sources of Cash

Historically, we have generated a significant amount of cash from operations. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we funded our working capital needs primarily through cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents on hand. We are a well-known seasoned issuer and have demonstrated the ability to conduct registered offerings of securities, including debt securities, common stock and preferred stock, on short notice. Access to sufficient capital from the public market is not assured.

•Debt

2019 Senior Notes Activity

In 2019, Discovery Communications, LLC ("DCL") issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal of senior notes (the "2029 Notes and 2049 Notes"). All of DCL's outstanding senior notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis by the Company and Scripps Networks and contain certain covenants, events of default and other customary provisions.

2018 Senior Notes Activity

In connection with the Scripps Networks acquisition in 2018, the Company assumed $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of the Scripps Networks 2.750% senior notes due 2019, 2.800% senior notes due 2020, 3.500% senior notes due 2022, 3.900% senior notes due 2024 and 3.950% senior notes due 2025 (together, the "Scripps Networks Senior Notes").

49

Pursuant to the Offering Memorandum and Consent Solicitation Statement to Exchange dated March 5, 2018, the Company completed the exchange of $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount of Scripps Networks Senior Notes, for $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount of DCL's 2.750% senior notes due 2019, 2.800% senior notes due 2020, 3.500% senior notes due 2022, 3.900% senior notes due 2024 and 3.950% senior notes due 2025. The exchange was accounted for as a debt modification and, as a result, third-party issuance costs were expensed as incurred.

Revolving Credit Facility

The Company has access to a $2.5 billion revolving credit facility. Borrowing capacity under this agreement is reduced by the outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. All obligations of DCL and the other borrowers under the revolving credit facility are unsecured and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company.

The credit agreement governing the revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) contains customary representations, warranties and events of default, as well as affirmative and negative covenants. As of December 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and there were no events of default under the Credit Agreement.

Commercial Paper

Under our commercial paper program and subject to market conditions, DCL may issue unsecured commercial paper notes guaranteed by the Company from time to time up to an aggregate principal amount outstanding at any given time of $1.5 billion, including up to $0.5 billion of euro denominated borrowings. The maturities of these notes vary but may not exceed 397 days. The notes may be issued at a discount or at par, and interest rates vary based on market conditions and the credit rating assigned to the notes at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding commercial paper borrowings. Borrowings under the commercial paper program reduce the borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility arrangement referenced above.

Term Loans

In August 2017, DCL entered into a three-year delayed draw tranche and a five-year delayed draw tranche unsecured term loan credit facility (the "Term Loans"), each with a principal amount of up to $1 billion. The term of each delayed draw loan commenced in March 2018 when Discovery used these funds to finance a portion of the acquisition of Scripps Networks. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had used cash from operations and borrowings under the commercial paper program to fully repay the Term Loan borrowings.

Uses of Cash

Our primary uses of cash include the creation and acquisition of new content, business acquisitions, repurchases of our capital stock, income taxes, personnel costs, principal and interest on our outstanding senior notes, and funding for various equity method and other investments.

•Investments and Business Combinations

The Company acquired Golf Digest for $36 million in cash and acquired a controlling interest in Play Sports Group Limited for $41 million in cash. (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

During 2018, Discovery completed the Scripps Networks acquisition for total consideration of $12.0 billion, including cash of $8.8 billion and stock of $3.2 billion. (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

Our uses of cash have included investments in equity method investments and equity investments without readily determinable fair value. (See Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) We provide funding to our investees from time to time. The Company contributed $254 million and $61 million for investments in and advances to our investees for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In addition, capital expenditures (net of proceeds from sale of assets) increased by $206 million during the year ended December 31, 2019.

•Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest and Noncontrolling Interest

Due to business combinations, we also have redeemable equity balances of $442 million, which may require the use of cash in the event holders of noncontrolling interests put their interests to the Company. (See Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) Distributions to redeemable noncontrolling interests and noncontrolling interests totaled $250 million and $76 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

50

•Content Acquisition

We plan to continue to invest significantly in the creation and acquisition of new content. Additional information regarding contractual commitments to acquire content is set forth in "Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements" in this Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

•Common Stock Repurchases

Historically, we have funded our stock repurchases through a combination of cash on hand, cash generated by operations and the issuance of debt. In April 2019, our Board of Directors authorized additional stock repurchases of up to $1 billion. Under this stock repurchase authorization, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases at prevailing prices or privately negotiated purchases subject to market conditions and other factors. (See Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company repurchased 23.2 million shares of its Series C common stock for $633 million.

•Income Taxes and Interest

We expect to continue to make payments for income taxes and interest on our outstanding senior notes. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we made cash payments of $562 million and $708 million for income taxes and interest on our outstanding debt, respectively.

•Debt

During 2019, the Company redeemed $900 million of senior notes and floating rate notes as they came due.

The Company used the net proceeds from the issuance of the 2029 Notes and 2049 Notes to redeem and repurchase $1.3 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. The repayment resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $23 million.

The Company redeemed $411 million aggregate principal senior notes and made open market bond repurchases of $55 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, resulting in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $5 million.

The Company has $600 million of outstanding senior notes coming due in June 2020.

Cash Flows

Changes in cash and cash equivalents were as follows (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Cash provided by operating activities was $3.4 billion and $2.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in net income excluding non-cash items following the acquisition of Scripps Networks, partially offset by a negative fluctuation in working capital activity.

Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities was $438 million and $8.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Scripps Networks in 2018. (See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

51

Financing Activities

Cash used in financing activities was $2.4 billion and $283 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to principal repayments of debt and the revolving credit facility, stock repurchases, and distributions to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests, partially offset by the issuance of 10- and 30-year notes.

Capital Resources

As of December 31, 2019, capital resources were comprised of the following (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) There were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility or commercial paper program outstanding as of December 31, 2019.

(b) Interest on senior notes is paid annually, semi-annually or quarterly. Our senior notes outstanding as of December 31, 2019 had interest rates that ranged from 1.90% to 6.35% and will mature between 2020 and 2049.

We expect that our cash balance, cash generated from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our cash needs for the next twelve months. Our borrowing costs and access to the capital markets can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics, such as interest coverage and leverage ratios.

As of December 31, 2019, we held $219 million of our $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents in our foreign subsidiaries. The 2017 Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 features a participation exemption regime with current taxation of certain foreign income and imposes a mandatory repatriation toll tax on unremitted foreign earnings. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, we intend to continue to reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. Our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to the U.S. However, if these funds are needed in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay non-U.S. taxes to repatriate them. The determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability with respect to these undistributed foreign earnings is not practicable.

Additional information regarding the changes in our outstanding indebtedness and the significant terms and provisions of our revolving credit facility and outstanding indebtedness is discussed in Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

52

COMMITMENTS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Obligations

As of December 31, 2019, our significant contractual obligations, including related payments due by period, were as follows (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above table does not include certain long-term obligations as the timing or the amount of the payments cannot be predicted. The current portion of the liability for cash-settled share-based compensation awards was $47 million as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, reserves for unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the above table because we are unable to predict reasonably the ultimate amount or timing of settlement. Our unrecognized tax benefits totaled $375 million as of December 31, 2019. 

The above table also does not include DCL's revolving credit facility that, during the year ended December 31, 2019, allowed DCL and certain designated foreign subsidiaries of DCL to borrow up to $2.5 billion, including a $100 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $50 million sublimit for swingline loans. Borrowing capacity under this agreement is reduced by the outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper program (See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.) As of December 31, 2019, the revolving credit facility agreement provided for a maturity date of August 11, 2022 and the option for up to two additional 364-day renewal periods.

From time to time we may provide our equity method investees additional funding that has not been committed to as of December 31, 2019 based on unforeseen investee opportunities or cash flow needs. (See Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

Long-term Debt

Principal payments on long-term debt reflect the repayment of our outstanding senior notes, at face value, assuming repayment will occur upon maturity. Interest payments on our outstanding senior notes are projected based on their contractual rate and maturity.

Finance Lease Obligations

We acquire satellite transponders and other equipment through multi-year finance lease arrangements. Principal payments on finance lease obligations reflect amounts due under our finance lease agreements. Interest payments on our outstanding finance lease obligations are based on the stated or implied rate in our finance lease agreements.

Operating Lease Obligations

We obtain office space and equipment under multi-year lease arrangements. Most operating leases are not cancelable prior to their expiration. Payments for operating leases represent the amounts due under the agreements assuming the agreements are not canceled prior to their expiration.

53

Purchase Obligations

Content purchase obligations include commitments and liabilities associated with third-party producers and sports associations for content that airs on our television networks. Production contracts generally require: purchase of a specified number of episodes; payments over the term of the license; and include both programs that have been delivered and are available for airing and programs that have not yet been produced or sporting events that have not yet taken place. If the content is ultimately never produced, our commitments expire without obligation. The commitments disclosed above exclude content liabilities recognized on the consolidated balance sheet. We expect to enter into additional production contracts and content licenses to meet our future content needs.

Other purchase obligations include agreements with certain vendors and suppliers for the purchase of goods and services whereby the underlying agreements are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms. Significant purchase obligations include transmission services, television rating services, marketing research, employment contracts, equipment purchases, and information technology and other services. The Company has contracts that do not require the purchase of fixed or minimum quantities and generally may be terminated with a 30-day to 60-day advance notice without penalty, and are not included in the table above past the 30-day to 60-day advance notice period. Amounts related to employment contracts include base compensation and do not include compensation contingent on future events.

Put Rights

The Company has granted put rights to certain consolidated subsidiaries, which have been excluded from the table above since we are unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of any payment.. The Company recorded the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest in the equity associated with the put rights as a component of redeemable noncontrolling interest in the amount of $442 million. (See Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.)

Pension Obligations

We sponsor a qualified defined benefit pension plan (“Pension Plan”) that covers certain U.S.-based employees. We also have a non-qualified Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”). 

Contractual commitments summarized in the contractual obligations table include payments to meet minimum funding requirements of our Pension Plan in 2020 and estimated benefit payments for our SERP. Payments for the SERP have been estimated over a ten-year period. While benefit payments under these plans are expected to continue beyond 2029, we believe it is not practicable to estimate payments beyond this period.

Non-controlling Interest

The Food Network and Cooking Channel are operated and organized under the terms of the TV Food Network Partnership (the "Partnership"). The Company and a non-controlling owner hold interests in the Partnership. During the fourth quarter of 2016, the Partnership agreement was extended and specifies a dissolution date of December 31, 2020. If the term of the Partnership is not extended prior to that date, the Partnership agreement permits the Company, as holder of 80% of the applicable votes, to reconstitute the Partnership and continue its business. If for some reason the Partnership is not continued, it will be required to limit its activities to winding up, settling debts, liquidating assets and distributing proceeds to the partners in proportion to their partnership interests.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements (as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K) that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into transactions with related parties, primarily our equity method investees and the Liberty Entities. Information regarding transactions and amounts with related parties is discussed in Note 21 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

54

NEW ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

We adopted certain accounting and reporting standards during 2019. Information regarding our adoption of new accounting and reporting standards is discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and accompanying notes. Management considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is material to reporting our financial condition and results of operations, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. We believe the following accounting policies are critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations and involve the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Uncertain Tax Positions

The Company is subject to income taxes in numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, the Company engages in transactions or takes filing positions in which the tax consequences may be uncertain and may recognize tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. The Company establishes a reserve for uncertain tax positions unless the Company determines that such positions are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination based on their technical merits, including the resolution of any appeals or litigation processes. The Company includes interest and where appropriate, potential penalties, in its tax reserves. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events including the status and results of income tax audits with the relevant tax authorities. Significant judgment is exercised in evaluating all relevant information, the technical merits of the tax positions, and the timely identification and accurate measurement of uncertain tax positions when determining the amount of reserve and whether positions taken on the Company's tax returns are more likely than not to be sustained. This also involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions with respect to the potential outcome of positions taken on tax returns that may be reviewed by tax authorities.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Goodwill is allocated to our reporting units, which are our operating segments or one level below our operating segments (the component level). Reporting units are determined by the discrete financial information available for the component and whether it is regularly reviewed by segment management. Components are aggregated into a single reporting unit if they share similar economic characteristics. Our reporting units are as follows: U.S. Networks, Europe, Latin America, and Asia-Pacific.

We evaluate our goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1 or earlier upon the occurrence of substantive unfavorable changes in economic conditions, industry trends, costs, cash flows, or ongoing declines in market capitalization. If we believe that as a result of our qualitative assessment it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is required. The quantitative impairment test requires significant judgment in determining the fair value of the reporting units. We determine the fair value of our reporting units by using a combination of the income approach, which incorporates the use of the discounted cash flow (“DCF”) method and the market multiple approach, which incorporates the use of EBITDA multiples based on market data. For the DCF method, we use projections specific to the reporting unit, as well as those based on general economic conditions, which require the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Determining fair value specific to each reporting unit requires the Company to exercise judgment when selecting the appropriate discount rates, control premiums, terminal growth rates, assumed tax rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, including revenue growth rates and profit margins. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis for each reporting unit are based on the reporting unit's budget, long range plan, and recent operating performance. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting unit and market conditions. 

During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company performed a qualitative goodwill impairment assessment for all reporting units and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units exceeded their carrying values, except for its Asia-Pacific reporting unit. For the Asia-Pacific reporting unit, the Company then performed a quantitative step 1 impairment test, which indicated limited headroom (the excess of fair value over carrying value) of 10%.

55

Given the limited headroom in the Asia-Pacific reporting unit, the Company closely monitored its results during 2019. During the third quarter, due to an increasingly challenging business environment in the Asia-Pacific region, which included 1) moderating revenue growth projections, 2) underperformance of certain sports investments, 3) heightened volatility in China and surrounding economies, and 4) a decline in Asia-Pacific stock price multiples for peer media companies, the Company believed the increased risk required it to perform an interim impairment test. The step 1 test utilized a DCF valuation methodology. Significant judgments and assumptions included the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, long-term growth rates ranging from 2% to 2.5%, and a discount rate of 11%. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis for the Asia-Pacific reporting unit were based on the reporting unit's budget and long-term business plan. The results of the step 1 test indicated that the carrying value of the net assets in the Asia-Pacific reporting unit exceeded its fair value.

In the second step of the impairment test, the Company hypothetically assigned the Asia-Pacific reporting unit's fair value to its individual assets and liabilities, including unrecognized intangible assets such as customer relationships and trade names, in a hypothetical purchase price allocation that calculates the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. The fair value estimates incorporated in step 2 for the hypothetical intangible assets were based on the excess earnings income approach for customer relationships and the relief-from-royalty method for trademarks. Key judgments made by management in step 2 of the impairment test included revenue growth rates, length of contract term, number of renewals, customer attrition rates, market-based royalty rates, and market-based tax rates. The step 2 impairment test indicated an implied fair value of goodwill of $40 million, which resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of $155 million during the three months ended September 30, 2019.

In 2019, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment test for our reporting units based on our policy of performing a quantitative impairment test every three years, irrespective of the outcome of the qualitative assessment. The Europe reporting unit, which had headroom of 19%, was the only reporting unit with fair value in excess of carrying value of less than 20%. During our annual impairment testing, we evaluated the sensitivity of our most critical assumption, the discount rate, and determined that a 100 basis point change in the discount rate selected would not have impacted the test results. Additionally, the Company could reduce the terminal growth rate by 50 basis points, and the fair value of the Europe reporting unit would still exceed its carrying value. As of December 31, 2019, the carrying value of goodwill assigned to the Europe reporting unit was $1.9 billion. Management will continue to monitor this reporting unit for changes in the business environment that could impact recoverability. The recoverability of goodwill is dependent upon the continued growth of cash flows from our business activities. Additionally, as the Europe reporting unit operates in foreign markets with various functional currencies and has significant U.S. dollar denominated assets, changes in foreign exchange rates that result in strengthening of the U.S. dollar may negatively impact the fair value of the reporting unit and the calculation of excess carrying value.

Content Rights

Content rights principally consist of television series, specials, films and sporting events. Costs of produced and coproduced content consist of development costs, acquired production costs, direct production costs, certain production overhead costs and participation costs and is capitalized if the Company has previously generated revenues from similar content in established markets and the content will be used and revenues will be generated for a period of at least one year.

Linear content amortization expense for each period is recognized based on the revenue forecast model, which approximates the proportion that estimated distribution and advertising revenues for the current period represent in relation to the estimated remaining total lifetime revenues. Digital content amortization for each period is recognized based on estimated viewing patterns as there are no direct revenues to associate to the individual content assets and therefore, number of views is most representative of the use of the title. Significant judgment is required to determine the useful lives and amortization patterns of the Company’s content assets.

Critical assumptions used in determining content amortization include: (i) the grouping of content by network and or genre, (ii) the application of a quantitative revenue forecast model based on the historical data, (iii) determining the appropriate historical periods to utilize and the relative weighting of those historical periods in the revenue forecast model, (iv) assessing the accuracy of the Company's revenue forecasts and (v) incorporating secondary streams. The Company then considers the appropriate application of the quantitative assessment given forecasted content use, expected content investment and market trends. Content use and future revenues may differ from estimates based on changes in expectations related to market acceptance, network affiliate fee rates, advertising demand, the number of cable and satellite television subscribers receiving the Company’s networks, the number of subscribers to our digital services, and program usage. Accordingly, the Company continually reviews revenue estimates and planned usage and revises its assumptions if necessary.

56

Consolidation

The Company has ownership and other interests in and contractual arrangements with various entities, including corporations, partnerships, and limited liability companies. For each such entity, the Company evaluates its ownership, other interests and contractual arrangements to determine whether it should consolidate the entity or account for its interest as an investment at inception and upon reconsideration events. As part of its evaluation, the Company initially determines whether the entity is a variable interest entity ("VIE"). Management evaluates key considerations through a qualitative and quantitative analysis in determining whether an entity is a VIE including whether (i) the entity has sufficient equity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties, (ii) the ability or inability to make significant decisions about the entity’s operations, and (iii) the proportionality of voting rights of investors relative to their obligations to absorb the expected losses (or receive the expected returns) of the entity. If the entity is a VIE and if the Company has a variable interest in the entity, the Company uses judgment in determining if it is the primary beneficiary and is thus required to consolidate the entity. In making this determination, the Company evaluates whether it or another party involved with the VIE (1) has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of or receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE.

If it is concluded that an entity is not a VIE, the Company considers its proportional voting interests in the entity and consolidates majority-owned subsidiaries in which a controlling financial interest is maintained. A controlling financial interest is determined by majority ownership and the absence of substantive third-party participation rights. Key factors considered by the Company in determining the presence of substantive third-party participation rights include, but are not limited to, control of the board of directors, budget approval or veto rights, or operational rights that significantly impact the economic performance of the business such as programming, creative development, marketing, and selection of key personnel. Ownership interests in unconsolidated entities for which the Company has significant influence are accounted for as equity method.

Revenue Recognition

During 2018, we updated our revenue recognition policies in conjunction with our adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance as further described in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As described in Note 2, the Company generates advertising revenues primarily from advertising sold on its television networks and websites and distribution revenues from fees charged to distributors of its network content, which include cable, direct-to-home satellite, telecommunications and digital service providers and bundled long-term content arrangements, as well as through DTC subscription services..

Revenue contracts with our advertising customers may include multiple distinct performance obligations. For example, linear and digital advertising contracts may include sponsorship, production, or product integration in addition to the airing of spots and the satisfaction of an audience guarantee. For such contracts, judgment is required in allocating the contract value to the individual performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling prices. Various factors such as prior transactions, rate cards and other market indicators are used to determine the standalone selling price of each performance obligation and accordingly, how much revenue is allocated to each performance obligation. For these contracts, revenue recorded when each performance obligation has been satisfied and value has been transferred to the customer.

A substantial portion of the advertising contracts in the U.S. and certain international markets guarantee the advertiser a minimum audience level that either the program in which their advertisements are aired or the advertisement will reach. These advertising campaigns are considered to represent a single, distinct performance obligation. For such contracts, judgement is required in measuring progress across the Company’s single performance obligation. Various factors such as rate cards and audience guarantees are considered in determining how to appropriately measure progress across the campaigns. Revenues are ultimately recognized based on the audience level delivered multiplied by the average price per impression. 

The Company also enters into certain distribution contracts with customers that include promises to deliver content libraries. There are generally two types of such arrangements: 1) content licensing arrangements that include subscription video on demand (“SVOD”) licensing arrangements and 2) digital DTC content (such as VOD and authenticated TVE applications) which is a performance obligation within our distribution arrangements. These contracts vary by customer and in certain instances include a promise to deliver existing content and new content. In these arrangements, the individual program titles delivered represent a distinct performance obligation.

57

For SVOD arrangements, which typically contain a fixed fee, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on that performance obligation's relative standalone selling price. If multiple individual program titles are included in the same licensing contract, each program is considered distinct, and therefore a separate performance obligation. Various factors such as the length of the license term, program exclusivity, and historical performance on our linear networks are used to determine the standalone selling price of each program and accordingly, how much revenue is allocated to each performance obligation. In contracts where existing individual program titles are delivered at the onset of the arrangement, revenue is recognized at that time based on the relative standalone selling price of additional individual program titles. More revenue is recognized during the contract term as additional performance obligations are satisfied via the delivery of these individual program titles. In the case of digital DTC content, content is regularly refreshed over the term of the agreement, as new titles are added and older titles are removed. Consequently, satisfaction of the performance obligations generally occurs in the same pattern as the delivery of the linear feed. The Company evaluates arrangements to assess whether there is material value associated with content delivered at the outset of a fixed price contract. If there is material value, then Company allocates contract consideration to those deliverables for purposes of revenue recognition.

See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for details on all significant risks that could impact the Company's ability to successfully grow its cash flows. 

For an in-depth discussion of each of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies and further information regarding estimates and assumptions involved in their application, see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.