PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

Dow Inc. was incorporated on August 30, 2018, under Delaware law, to serve as a holding company for The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("TDCC" and together with Dow Inc., "Dow" or the "Company"). Dow Inc. operates all of its businesses through TDCC, a wholly owned subsidiary, which was incorporated in 1947 under Delaware law and is the successor to a Michigan corporation, of the same name, organized in 1897. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 2211 H.H. Dow Way, Midland, Michigan 48674.

Available Information

The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge at www.dow.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed or furnished with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains these reports as well as proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. The SEC's website is at www.sec.gov. Dow's website and its content are not deemed incorporated by reference into this report.

MERGER AND SEPARATION

On April 1, 2019, DowDuPont Inc. (“DowDuPont” and effective June 3, 2019, n/k/a DuPont de Nemours, Inc. or "DuPont") completed the separation of its materials science business and Dow Inc. became the direct parent company of TDCC and its consolidated subsidiaries, owning all of the outstanding common shares of TDCC. 

The separation was contemplated by the merger of equals transaction effective August 31, 2017, under the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017. TDCC and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (“Historical DuPont”) each merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont and, as a result, TDCC and Historical DuPont became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (the “Merger”). Subsequent to the Merger, TDCC and Historical DuPont engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. Dow Inc. was formed as a wholly owned subsidiary of DowDuPont to serve as the holding company for the materials science business. 

As of the effective date and time of the distribution, DowDuPont does not beneficially own any equity interest in Dow and no longer consolidates Dow and its consolidated subsidiaries into its financial results. The consolidated financial results of Dow for periods prior to April 1, 2019, reflect the distribution of TDCC’s agricultural sciences business (“AgCo”) and specialty products business (“SpecCo”) as discontinued operations for each period presented as well as reflect the receipt of Historical DuPont’s ethylene and ethylene copolymers businesses (other than its ethylene acrylic elastomers business) (“ECP”) as a common control transaction from the closing of the Merger on August 31, 2017. See Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Dow Inc.'s Amendment No. 4 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on March 8, 2019, for additional information.

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise indicated, amounts and activity are presented on a continuing operations basis.

About Dow

Dow combines global breadth, asset integration and scale, focused innovation and leading business positions to achieve profitable growth. The Company’s ambition is to become the most innovative, customer centric, inclusive and sustainable materials science company. Dow’s portfolio of plastics, industrial intermediates, coatings and silicones businesses delivers a broad range of differentiated science-based products and solutions for its customers in high-growth market segments, such as packaging, infrastructure and consumer care. Dow operates 109 manufacturing sites in 31 countries and employs approximately 36,500 people. 

6
BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND PRODUCTS

Effective with the Merger, TDCC's business activities were components of DowDuPont's business operations and were reported as a single operating segment. Following the separation from DowDuPont, the Company changed the manner in which its business activities were managed. The Company's portfolio now includes six global businesses which are organized into the following operating segments: Packaging & Specialty Plastics, Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure and Performance Materials & Coatings. Corporate contains the reconciliation between the totals for the operating segments and the Company's totals. The Company did not aggregate any operating segments when determining its reportable segments. See Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Company’s operating segments.

PACKAGING & SPECIALTY PLASTICS 

Packaging & Specialty Plastics consists of two highly integrated global businesses: Hydrocarbons & Energy and Packaging and Specialty Plastics. The segment employs the industry’s broadest polyolefin product portfolio, supported by the Company’s proprietary catalyst and manufacturing process technologies, to work at the customer’s design table throughout the value chain to deliver more reliable and durable, higher performing, and more sustainable plastics to customers in food and specialty packaging; industrial and consumer packaging; health and hygiene; caps, closures and pipe applications; consumer durables; automotive; and infrastructure.

The Company’s unique advantages compared with its competitors include: extensive low-cost feedstock positions around the world; unparalleled scale, global footprint and market reach, with world-class manufacturing sites in every geography; deep customer and brand owner understanding; portfolio of higher-value functional polymers, such as polyolefin elastomers, semiconductive and jacketing compound solutions and wire and cable insulation; and market-driven application development and technical support.

The segment remains agile and adaptive by participating in the entire ethylene-to-polyethylene chain integration, enabling the Company to manage market swings, and therefore optimize returns while reducing long-term earnings volatility. The Company’s unrivaled value chain ownership is further strengthened by its Pack Studio locations in every geography, which help customers and brand owners deliver faster and more efficient packaging product commercialization through a global network of laboratories, technical experts and testing equipment.

Hydrocarbons & Energy

Hydrocarbons & Energy is the largest global producer of ethylene, a key chemical building block that the Company consumes primarily within the Packaging & Specialty Plastics segment. Ethylene is transferred to downstream derivative businesses at market-based prices, which are generally equivalent to prevailing market prices for large volume purchases. In addition to ethylene, the business is a leading producer of propylene and aromatics products that are used to manufacture materials that consumers use every day. The business also produces and procures the power and feedstocks used by the Company’s manufacturing sites.

Packaging and Specialty Plastics 

Packaging and Specialty Plastics serves growing, high-value sectors using world-class technology, broad existing product lines, and a rich product pipeline that creates competitive advantages for the entire packaging value chain. The business is a recognized leader in the production, marketing and innovation of polyethylene. The business is also a leader in other ethylene derivatives, such as polyolefin elastomers, ethylene vinyl acetate and ethylene propylene diene monomer ("EPDM") rubber serving automotive, consumer, wire and cable and construction markets. Market growth is expected to be driven by major shifts in population demographics; improving socioeconomic status in emerging geographies; consumer and brand owner demand for increased functionality; global efforts to reduce food waste; growth in telecommunications networks; global development of electrical transmission and distribution infrastructure; and renewable energy applications.

Divestiture

On September 1, 2017, the Company sold its global Ethylene Acrylic Acid copolymers and ionomers business to SK Global Chemical Co., Ltd. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

7
Details on Packaging & Specialty Plastics' 2019 net sales, by business and geographic region, are as follows:

* Europe, Middle East, Africa and India ("EMEAI")

Products

Major applications/market segments and products are listed below by business:

BusinessApplications/Market SegmentsMajor ProductsKey Raw MaterialsKey Competitors

Hydrocarbons & EnergyPurchaser of feedstocks; production of cost competitive hydrocarbon monomers utilized by Dow's derivative businesses; and energy, principally for use in Dow’s global operationsEthylene, propylene, benzene, butadiene, octene, aromatics co-products, power, steam, other utilitiesButane, condensate, ethane, naphtha, natural gas, propaneChevron Phillips Chemical, ExxonMobil, INEOS, LyondellBasell, SABIC, Shell, Sinopec

Packaging and Specialty PlasticsAdhesives; automotive; caps, closures and pipe applications; construction; cosmetics; electrical transmission and distribution; food and supply chain packaging; footwear; health and hygiene; housewares; industrial specialty applications using polyolefin elastomers, ethylene copolymers, and ethylene propylene diene monomer ("EPDM") elastomers; irrigation pipe; photovoltaic encapsulants; sporting goods; telecommunications infrastructure; toys and infant products

Acrylics, bio-based plasticizers, copolymer, elastomers, ethylene copolymer resins, EPDM, ethylene vinyl acetate ("EVA"), methacrylic acid copolymer resins, polyethylene ("PE"), high-density polyethylene ("HDPE"), low-density polyethylene ("LDPE"), linear low-density polyethylene ("LLDPE"), polyolefin plastomers, resin additives and modifiers, semiconductive and jacketing compound solutions and wire and cable insulation

Aliphatic solvent, butene, ethylene, hexene, octene, propyleneBorealis, ExxonMobil, INEOS, Lanxess, LyondellBasell, Nova, SABIC

8
Joint Ventures 

This segment includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of the following joint ventures:

•EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C.C. (“EQUATE”) - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene, polyethylene and ethylene glycol, and manufactures and markets monoethylene glycol, diethylene glycol and polyethylene terephthalate resins; owned 42.5 percent by the Company.

•The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C.C. (“TKOC”) - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene and ethylene glycol; owned 42.5 percent by the Company.

•Map Ta Phut Olefins Company Limited (“Map Ta Phut”) - a Thailand-based company that manufactures propylene and ethylene; the Company has an effective ownership of 32.77 percent (of which 20.27 percent is owned directly by the Company and aligned with the Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure segment and 12.5 percent is owned indirectly through the Company’s equity interest in Siam Polyethylene Company Limited, an entity that is part of The SCG-Dow Group and aligned with the Packaging & Specialty Plastics segment).

•Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") - a Saudi Arabian company that manufactures chlorine, ethylene, propylene and aromatics for internal consumption and manufactures and sells polyethylene, ethylene oxide and propylene oxide derivative products, and isocyanates; owned 35 percent by the Company. The Company is responsible for marketing a majority of Sadara products outside of the Middle East zone through the Company’s established sales channels. As part of this arrangement, the Company purchases and sells Sadara products for a marketing fee.

This segment also includes the Company's share of the results of the following joint ventures:

•The Kuwait Styrene Company K.S.C.C. (“TKSC”) - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures styrene monomer; owned 42.5 percent by the Company.

•The SCG-Dow Group - a group of Thailand-based companies (consisting of Siam Polyethylene Company Limited; Siam Polystyrene Company Limited; Siam Styrene Monomer Company Limited; and Siam Synthetic Latex Company Limited) that manufacture polyethylene, polystyrene, styrene, latex and specialty elastomers; owned 50 percent by the Company.

Current and Future Investments

In 2017, the Company announced the startup of its new integrated world-scale ethylene production facility and its new ELITE™ Enhanced Polyethylene production facility, both located in Freeport, Texas. In 2018, the Company started up its new LDPE production facility and its new NORDEL™ Metallocene EPDM production facility, both located in Plaquemine, Louisiana. These key milestones enable the Company to capture benefits from increasing supplies of U.S. shale gas to deliver differentiated downstream solutions in its core market verticals. The Company also completed debottlenecking of an existing bi-modal gas phase polyethylene production facility in St. Charles, Louisiana, and started up a new High Melt Index ("HMI") AFFINITY™ polymer production facility in Freeport, Texas, in the fourth quarter of 2018. 

Additionally, the Company has announced investments over the next five years that are expected to enhance competitiveness. These include:

•Expansion of the capacity of the Company’s new ethylene production facility in Freeport, TX, bringing the facility’s total ethylene capacity to 2,000 kilotonnes per annum ("KTA") and making it the largest ethylene cracker in the world.

•Incremental debottleneck projects across its global asset network that will deliver approximately 350 KTA of additional polyethylene, the majority of which will be in U.S. & Canada.

•Construction of a world-scale polyethylene unit on the U.S. Gulf Coast based on Dow’s proprietary process technologies, to meet consumer-driven demand in specialty packaging, health and hygiene, and industrial and consumer packaging applications.

•A new catalyst production facility for key catalysts licensed by Univation Technologies, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.

•On January 29, 2020, the Company announced plans to add another furnace to its ethylene production facility in Alberta, Canada, incrementally expanding capacity by approximately 130,000 metric tons. Dow will co-invest in the expansion with a regional customer, evenly sharing project costs and ethylene output, with the additional ethylene to be consumed by existing polyethylene manufacturing assets in the region. The expansion is expected to come online in the first half of 2021.

9
The Company's ambition includes becoming the most sustainable materials science company in the world with a strategy to advance the well-being of humanity by helping lead the transition to a sustainable planet and society. This includes lowering energy and greenhouse gas emissions ("GHG") and enabling a shift to a circular economy for plastics by focusing on resource efficiency and integrating recycled content and renewable feedstocks into its production processes. As part of that strategy, Dow announced the following in August 2019:

•An agreement with the Fuenix Ecogy Group, based in Weert, The Netherlands, for the supply of pyrolysis oil feedstock, which is made from recycled plastic waste. The feedstock will be used to produce virgin polymers at Dow’s production facilities in Terneuzen, The Netherlands. This is an important step forward to increase feedstock recycling - the process of breaking down mixed waste plastics into their original form to manufacture new virgin polymers. The polymers produced from this pyrolysis oil will be identical to products produced from traditional feedstocks, and as such, they can be used in the same applications, including food packaging.

•An agreement with UPM Biofuels, a producer of biofuels, for the supply and integration of wood-based UPM Bio Verno renewable naphtha - a key raw material used to develop plastics - into Dow's slate of raw materials, creating an alternative source for plastics production. The feedstock will be used to produce bio-based polyethylene at Dow's production facilities in Terneuzen, The Netherlands, for use in packaging applications such as food packaging, to reduce food waste.

•The retrofit of one of its Louisiana steam crackers with Dow’s proprietary fluidized catalytic dehydrogenation ("FCDh") technology to produce on-purpose propylene. The FCDh technology retrofit further improves Dow’s ability to continue to source the most advantaged feedstocks, while also producing reliable and cost-efficient on-purpose propylene to supply its integrated derivative units in Louisiana. The technology reduces capital outlay by up to 25 percent and lowers energy usage and GHG by up to 20 percent, thereby improving overall sustainability when compared with conventional propane dehydrogenation technologies. The project is expected to begin producing on-purpose propylene by the end of 2021.

INDUSTRIAL INTERMEDIATES & INFRASTRUCTURE 

Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure consists of two customer-centric global businesses - Industrial Solutions and Polyurethanes & Construction Chemicals - that develop important intermediate chemicals that are essential to manufacturing processes, as well as downstream, customized materials and formulations that use advanced development technologies. These businesses primarily produce and market ethylene oxide and propylene oxide derivatives that are aligned to market segments as diverse as appliances, coatings, infrastructure and oil and gas. The global scale and reach of these businesses, world-class technology and R&D capabilities and materials science expertise enable the Company to be a premier solutions provider offering customers value-add sustainable solutions to enhance comfort, energy efficiency, product effectiveness and durability across a wide range of home comfort and appliances, building and construction, adhesives and lubricant applications, among others.

Industrial Solutions

Industrial Solutions provides a broad portfolio of solutions that address world needs by enabling and improving the manufacture of consumer and industrial goods and services. The business’ solutions minimize friction and heat in mechanical processes; manage the oil and water interface; deliver ingredients for maximum effectiveness; facilitate dissolvability; enable product identification; and provide the foundational building blocks for the development of chemical technologies. The business supports manufacturers associated with a large variety of end-markets, notably coatings, detergents and cleaners, crop protection, solvents for electronics processing, inks and textiles. The business is the world's largest producer of purified ethylene oxide.

Polyurethanes & Construction Chemicals

Polyurethanes & Construction Chemicals consists of three businesses: Polyurethanes, Chlor-Alkali & Vinyl (“CAV”) and Construction Chemicals (“DCC”). The Polyurethanes business is the world’s largest producer of propylene oxide, propylene glycol and polyether polyols, and a leading producer of aromatic isocyanates and fully formulated polyurethane systems for rigid, semi-rigid and flexible foams, and coatings, adhesives, sealants, elastomers and composites that serve energy efficiency, consumer comfort, industrial and enhanced mobility market sectors. The CAV business provides cost-advantaged chlorine and caustic soda supply and markets caustic soda, a valuable co-product of the chlor-alkali manufacturing process, and ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride monomer. The CAV business' assets are predominantly in Western Europe and largely produce materials for internal consumption. The DCC business provides cellulose ethers, redispersible latex powders, and acrylic emulsions used as key building blocks for differentiated building and construction materials across many market segments and applications ranging from roofing and flooring to gypsum-, cement-, concrete- or dispersion-based building materials.

10
Details on Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructures' 2019 net sales, by business and geographic region, are as follows:

Products

Major applications/market segments and products are listed below by business:

BusinessApplications/Market SegmentsMajor ProductsKey Raw MaterialsKey Competitors

Industrial SolutionsBroad range of products for specialty applications, including agriculture crop protection offerings, aircraft deicing, solvents for coatings, heat transfer fluids for concentrated solar power, construction, solvents for electronics processing, food preservation, fuel markers, home and personal care, infrastructure applications, lubricant additives, paper, transportation and utilities; products for energy markets including exploration, production, transmission, refining, mining and gas processing to optimize supply, improve efficiencies and manage emissions

Acetone derivatives, butyl glycol ethers, VERSENE™ Chelants, UCAR™ Deicing Fluids, ethanolamines, ethylene oxide ("EO"), ethyleneamines, UCON™ Fluids, glycol ethers, UCARTHERM™ Heat Transfer Fluids, higher glycols, isopropanolamines, low-VOC solvents, methoxypolyethylene glycol, methyl isobutyl, polyalkylene glycol, CARBOWAX™ SENTRY™

Polyethylene Glycol, TERGITOL™ and TRITON™ Surfactants, demulsifiers, drilling and completion fluids, heat transfer fluids, rheology modifiers, scale inhibitors, shale inhibitors, specialty amine solvents, surfactants, water clarifiers, frothing separating agentsEthylene, propyleneBASF, Eastman, Hexion, Huntsman, INEOS, LyondellBasell, SABIC, Sasol, Shell

Polyurethanes & Construction ChemicalsAircraft deicing fluids; alumina; pulp and paper; appliances; automotive; bedding; building and construction; flooring; footwear; heat transfer fluids; hydraulic fluids; infrastructure; packaging; textiles and transportation; construction; caulks and sealants; cement-based tile adhesives; concrete solutions; elastomeric roof coatings; industrial non-wovens; plasters and renders; roof tiles and siding; sport grounds and tape joint compounds

Aniline, caustic soda, ethylene dichloride ("EDC"), methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (“MDI”), polyether polyols, propylene glycol ("PG"), propylene oxide ("PO"), polyurethane systems, toluene diisocyanate (“TDI”), vinyl chloride monomer ("VCM"), AQUASET™ Acrylic Thermosetting Resins, DOW™ Latex Powder, RHOPLEX™ and PRIMAL™ Acrylic Emulsion Polymers, WALOCEL™ Cellulose Ethers

Aniline, aqueous hydrochloric acid, benzene, carbon monoxide, caustic soda, cell effluent, cellulose chlorine, electric power, ethylene, hydrogen peroxide, propylene, styreneArkema, Ashland, BASF, Covestro, Eastman, Huntsman, INEOS, Olin, Owens-Corning, Yantai Wanhua

11
Joint Ventures 

This segment includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of EQUATE, TKOC, Map Ta Phut and Sadara. 

Current and Future Investments

The Company expects to make investments over the next five years to enhance competitiveness in the Company’s Polyurethanes & Construction Chemicals and Industrial Solutions businesses. The investments will include alkoxylation capacity expansions and finishing capabilities; investments to support growth in polyurethane systems; and efficiency improvements around the world.

PERFORMANCE MATERIALS & COATINGS 

Performance Materials & Coatings includes industry-leading franchises that deliver a wide array of solutions into consumer and infrastructure end-markets. The segment consists of two global businesses: Coatings & Performance Monomers and Consumer Solutions. These businesses primarily utilize the Company's acrylics-, cellulosics- and silicone-based technology platforms to serve the needs of the architectural and industrial coatings, home care and personal care end-markets. Both businesses employ materials science capabilities, global reach and unique products and technology to combine chemistry platforms to deliver differentiated offerings to customers. 

Coatings & Performance Monomers 

Coatings & Performance Monomers consists of two businesses: Coating Materials and Performance Monomers. The Coating Materials business makes critical ingredients and additives that help advance the performance of paints and coatings. The business offers innovative and sustainable products to accelerate paint and coatings performance across diverse market segments, including architectural paints and coatings, as well as industrial coatings applications used in maintenance and protective industries, wood, metal packaging, traffic markings, thermal paper and leather. These products enhance coatings by improving hiding and coverage characteristics, enhancing durability against nature and the elements, lowering or eliminating volatile organic compounds (“VOC”) content, reducing maintenance and improving ease of application. The Performance Monomers business manufactures acrylics-based building blocks needed for the production of coatings, textiles, and home and personal care products. 

Consumer Solutions

Consumer Solutions consists of three businesses: Performance Silicones; Home & Personal Care; and Silicone Feedstocks & Intermediates. Performance Silicones uses innovative, versatile silicone-based technology to provide ingredients and solutions to customers in high performance building, consumer goods, elastomeric applications and the pressure sensitive adhesives industry that help them meet modern consumer preferences in attributes such as texture, feel, scent, durability and consistency. Dow’s wide array of silicone-based products and solutions enables customers to: increase the appeal of their products; extend shelf life; improve performance of products under a wider range of conditions; and provide a more sustainable offering. The Home & Personal Care business collaborates closely with global and regional brand owners to deliver innovative solutions, leveraging acrylics and cellulosics technology platforms for creating new and unrivaled consumer benefits and experiences in cleaning, laundry and skin and hair care applications, among others. Silicone Feedstocks & Intermediates provides standalone silicone materials that are used as intermediates in a wide range of applications including adhesion promoters, coupling agents, crosslinking agents, dispersing agents and surface modifiers.

12
Details on Performance Materials & Coatings' 2019 net sales, by business and geographic region, are as follows:

Products

Major applications/market segments and products are listed below by business:

BusinessApplications/Market SegmentsMajor ProductsKey Raw MaterialsKey Competitors

Coatings & Performance Monomers

Acrylic binders for architectural paints and coatings, industrial coatings and paper; adhesives; dispersants; impact modifiers; inks and paints; opacifiers and surfactants for both architectural and industrial applications; plastics additives; processing aids; protective and functional coatings; rheology modifiers

ACOUSTICRYL™ Liquid-Applied Sound Damping Technology; acrylates; ACRYSOL™ Rheology Modifiers; AVANSE™ Acrylic Binders; EVOQUE™ Pre-Composite Polymer; foam cell promoters; FORMASHIELD™ Acrylic Binder; high-quality impact modifiers; MAINCOTE™ Acrylic Epoxy Hybrid; methacrylates; processing aids; RHOPLEX™ Acrylic Resin; TAMOL™ Dispersants; vinyl acetate monomers; weatherable acrylic capstock compounds for thermoplastic and thermosetting materialsAcetic acid, acetone, acrylic acid, butyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, propylene, styreneArkema, BASF, Celanese, Evonik, LyondellBasell, Wacker Chemie

Consumer SolutionsPersonal care, color cosmetics, baby care, home care and specialty applications with a key focus on hair care, skin care, sun care, cleansing, as well as fabric, dish, floor, hard surface and air care applications; commercial glazing; electrical and high-voltage insulation; lamp and luminaire modules assembly; oil and gas; paints and inks; release liners, specialty films and tapes; sporting goods; 3D printingAdhesives and sealants; antifoams and surfactants; coatings and controlled release; coupling agents and crosslinkers; EVOLV3D™ Printing Technology; fluids, emulsions and dispersions; formulating and processing aids; granulation and binders; oils; polymers and emollients; opacifiers; reagents; resins, gels and powders; rheology modifiers; rubber; silicone elastomers; solubility enhancers; aerospace composites; surfactants and solvents; SILASTIC™ Silicone Elastomers; DOWSIL™ Silicone ProductsHydrochloric acid, methanol, platinum, silica, silicon metal Elkem, Momentive, Shin-Etsu, Wacker Chemie

13
Current and Future Investments

The Company has announced investments over the next five years that are expected to enhance competitiveness, including low capital intensity, high return investments in the Company’s silicones franchise. The investments include a series of incremental silicones debottleneck and efficiency improvement projects around the world, a new hydroxyl functional siloxane polymer plant in the U.S. and a new specialty resin plant in China.

CORPORATE

Corporate includes certain enterprise and governance activities (including insurance operations, environmental operations, etc.); non-business aligned joint ventures; non-business aligned litigation expenses; and discontinued or non-aligned businesses. 

RAW MATERIALS

The Company operates in an integrated manufacturing environment. Basic raw materials are processed through many stages to produce a number of products that are sold as finished goods at various points in those processes. The major raw material stream that feeds the production of the Company's finished goods is hydrocarbon-based raw materials. The Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including ethane, propane, butane, naphtha and condensate as feedstocks. These raw materials are used in the production of both saleable products and energy. The Company also purchases certain monomers, primarily ethylene and propylene, to supplement internal production. The Company purchases natural gas, primarily to generate electricity, and purchases electric power to supplement internal generation. In addition, the Company produces a portion of its electricity needs in Louisiana and Texas; Alberta, Canada; The Netherlands; and Germany. 

The Company's primary source of these raw materials are natural gas liquids ("NGLs"), which are derived from shale gas and crude oil production and naphtha, which is produced during the processing and refining of crude oil. Given recent advancements in shale gas, shale oil and conventional drilling techniques, the Company expects these raw materials to be in abundant supply. The Company's suppliers of these raw materials include regional, international and national oil and gas companies.

The Company purchases raw materials on both short- and long-term contracts. The Company had adequate supplies of raw materials in 2019 and expects to continue to have adequate supplies of raw materials in 2020.

INDUSTRY SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC REGION RESULTS

See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding net sales, pro forma net sales, pro forma Operating EBIT and total assets by segment, as well as net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region.

SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND PRODUCTS

All products and services are marketed primarily through the Company’s sales force, although in some instances more emphasis is placed on sales through distributors. In 2019, no significant portion of the Company's sales was dependent upon a single customer.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

The Company continually applies for and obtains U.S. and foreign patents and has a substantial number of pending patent applications throughout the world. At December 31, 2019, the Company owned approximately 3,700 active U.S. patents and 19,100 active foreign patents as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company’s primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect the results of its research for use in operations and licensing. The Company is party to a substantial number of patent licenses, including intellectual property cross-license agreements and other technology agreements, and also has a substantial number of trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries, including the “Dow in Diamond” trademark. Although the Company considers that its patents, licenses and trademarks in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, it does not regard its business as being materially dependent on any single or group of related patents, licenses or trademarks.

14
PRINCIPAL PARTLY OWNED COMPANIES

The Company’s principal nonconsolidated affiliates at December 31, 2019, including direct or indirect ownership interest for each, are listed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1.The Company's effective ownership of Map Ta Phut is 32.77 percent, of which the Company directly owns 20.27 percent and indirectly owns 12.5 percent through its equity interest in Siam Polyethylene Company Limited.

2.The Company is responsible for marketing the majority of Sadara products outside of the Middle East zone through the Company's established sales channels. Under this arrangement, the Company purchases and sells Sadara products for a marketing fee.

See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding nonconsolidated affiliates.

PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT

Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors; Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 1 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, detailed information on the Company's performance regarding environmental matters and goals can be found online on the Science & Sustainability webpage at www.dow.com/sustainability. Dow's website and its content are not deemed incorporated by reference into this report.

EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 2019, the Company permanently employed approximately 36,500 people on a full-time basis. 

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The Company engages in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business primarily through its Liana Limited subsidiaries.

15
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Set forth below is information related to the Company's executive officers as of February 7, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS