Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Commodity Price Risk and Derivative Instruments

The Company's primary market risk exposure is the volatility of future prices for natural gas and NGLs. Due to the volatility of commodity prices, the Company is unable to predict future potential movements in the market prices for natural gas and NGLs at the Company's ultimate sales points and, thus, cannot predict the ultimate impact of prices on its operations. Prolonged low, or significant, extended declines in, natural gas and NGLs prices could adversely affect, among other things, the Company's development plans, which would decrease the pace of development and the level of the Company's proved reserves. 

The Company's overall objective in its hedging program is to protect cash flows from undue exposure to the risk of changing commodity prices. The Company's use of derivatives is further described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Commodity Risk Management" of "Capital Resources and Liquidity" in Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Company's OTC derivative commodity instruments are placed primarily with financial institutions and the creditworthiness of those institutions is regularly monitored. The Company primarily enters into derivative instruments to hedge forecasted sales of production. The Company also enters into derivative instruments to hedge basis and exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. The Company's use of derivative instruments is implemented under a set of policies approved by the Company's Hedge and Financial Risk Committee and reviewed by the Company's Board of Directors.

For derivative commodity instruments used to hedge the Company's forecasted sales of production, which are at, for the most part, NYMEX natural gas prices, the Company sets policy limits relative to the expected production and sales levels that are exposed to price risk. The Company has an insignificant amount of financial natural gas derivative commodity instruments for trading purposes.

Derivative commodity instruments used by the Company are primarily swap, collar and option agreements. These agreements may require payments to, or receipt of payments from, counterparties based on the differential between two prices for the commodity. The Company uses these agreements to hedge its NYMEX and basis exposure. The Company may also use other contractual agreements when implementing its commodity hedging strategy. The Company monitors price and production levels on a continuous basis and makes adjustments to quantities hedged as warranted. 

A hypothetical decrease of 10% in the market price of natural gas from December 31, 2019 and 2018 would increase the fair value of these natural gas derivative instruments by approximately $389.4 million and $432.5 million, respectively. A hypothetical increase of 10% in the market price of natural gas from December 31, 2019 and 2018 would decrease the fair value of these natural gas derivative instruments by approximately $394.5 million and $443.4 million, respectively. For purposes of this analysis, the Company applied the 10% change in the market price of natural gas from December 31, 2019 and 2018 to the Company's natural gas derivative commodity instruments to calculate the hypothetical change in fair value. The change in fair value was determined using a method similar to the Company's normal process for determining derivative commodity instrument fair value described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

The above analysis of the Company's derivative commodity instruments does not include the offsetting impact that the same hypothetical price movement may have on the Company's physical sales of natural gas. The portfolio of derivative commodity instruments held to hedge the Company's forecasted produced gas approximates a portion of the Company's expected physical sales of natural gas; therefore, an adverse impact to the fair value of the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments held to hedge the Company's forecasted production associated with the hypothetical changes in commodity prices referenced above should be offset by a favorable impact on the Company's physical sales of natural gas, assuming that the derivative commodity instruments are not closed out in advance of their expected term and the derivative commodity instruments continue to function effectively as hedges of the underlying risk.

If the underlying physical transactions or positions are liquidated prior to the maturity of the derivative commodity instruments, a loss on the financial instruments may occur or the derivative commodity instruments might be worthless as determined by the prevailing market value on their termination or maturity date, whichever comes first.

Interest Rate Risk

Changes in interest rates affect the amount of interest the Company earns on cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and the interest rates the Company pays on borrowings under its credit facility, Term Loan Facility and floating rate notes (which notes were fully redeemed on February 3, 2020). All of the Company's senior notes, other than the floating rate notes, have a fixed rate and, thus, do not expose the Company to fluctuations in market interest rates. A 1% increase in interest rates on the Company's 

56
borrowings under its credit facility, Term Loan Facility and floating rate notes during the year ended December 31, 2019 would have increased 2019 annual interest expense by approximately $14 million.

Interest rates on the Adjustable Rate Notes fluctuate based on changes to the credit ratings assigned to the Company's senior notes by Moody's, S&P and Fitch. For a discussion of credit rating downgrade risk, see Item 1A., "Risk Factors – Our exploration and production operations have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms." Changes in interest rates affect the fair value of the Company's fixed rate debt. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company's long-term debt and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of fair value measurements, including the fair value of the Company's long-term debt. 

Other Market Risks

The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its derivative contracts. This credit exposure is limited to derivative contracts with a positive fair value, which may change as market prices change. The Company's OTC derivative instruments are primarily with financial institutions and, thus, are subject to events that would impact those companies individually as well as the financial industry as a whole. The Company uses various processes and analyses to monitor and evaluate its credit risk exposures, including monitoring current market conditions and counterparty credit fundamentals. Credit exposure is controlled through credit approvals and limits based on counterparty credit fundamentals. To manage the level of credit risk, the Company enters into transactions primarily with financial counterparties that are of investment grade, enters into netting agreements whenever possible and may obtain collateral or other security. 

Approximately 75%, or $718.0 million, of the Company's OTC derivative contracts outstanding at December 31, 2019 had a positive fair value. Approximately 64%, or $369.5 million, of the Company's OTC derivative contracts outstanding at December 31, 2018 had a positive fair value.

As of December 31, 2019, the Company was not in default under any derivative contracts and had no knowledge of default by any counterparty to its derivative contracts. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company made no adjustments to the fair value of its derivative contracts due to credit-related concerns outside of the normal non-performance risk adjustment included in the Company's established fair value procedure. The Company monitors market conditions that may impact the fair value of its derivative contracts.  

The Company is exposed to the risk of nonperformance by credit customers on physical sales of natural gas, NGLs and oil. Revenues and related accounts receivable from the Company's operations are generated primarily from the sale of produced natural gas, NGLs and oil to marketers, utilities and industrial customers located in the Appalachian Basin and in markets that are accessible through the Company's transportation portfolio, which includes markets in the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast United States and Canada. The Company also contracts with certain processors to market a portion of NGLs on behalf of the Company. 

No one lender of the large group of financial institutions in the syndicate for the Company's credit facility and the Term Loan Facility holds more than 10% and 15%, respectively, of the financial commitments under such facilities. The large syndicate group and relatively low percentage of participation by each lender are expected to limit the Company's exposure to disruption or consolidation in the banking industry.

57
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data