Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risks, including changes to foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and inflation.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We have foreign currency risks related to our revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, our revenue and other operating results as expressed in U.S. dollars.

We have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of transaction gains or losses related to revaluing monetary asset and liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. At this time, we have not entered into, but in the future we may enter into, derivatives or other financial instruments in an attempt to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. It is difficult to predict the effect hedging activities would have on our results of operations. Foreign currency losses of $105 million, $213 million, and $6 million were recognized in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, as interest and other income, net in our consolidated statements of income.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

Our exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to interest earned and market value on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.

Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities consist of cash, certificates of deposit, time deposits, money market funds, U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, and investment grade corporate debt securities. Our investment policy and strategy are focused on preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. Changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, and the market value of those securities. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease of $525 million and $468 million in the market value of our available-for-sale debt securities as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. Any realized gains or losses resulting from such interest rate changes would only occur if we sold the investments prior to maturity.

67
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data