PART I

 ITEM 1.BUSINESS. 

 L3HARRIS

General

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal executive offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100. Our common stock is now traded under the ticker symbol “LHX” on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), and unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “L3Harris” as used in this Report mean the combined company L3Harris Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, when referring to periods after the end of fiscal 2019 (after the L3Harris Merger) and mean Harris and its subsidiaries when referring to periods prior to the end of fiscal 2019 (prior to the L3Harris Merger). 

L3Harris Technologies, Inc. is an agile global aerospace and defense technology innovator, delivering end-to-end solutions that meet customers’ mission-critical needs. We provide advanced defense and commercial technologies across air, land, sea, space and cyber domains. We support government and commercial customers in 130 countries, with our largest customers being various departments and agencies of the U.S. Government and their prime contractors. Our products, systems and services have defense and civil government applications, as well as commercial applications. As of January 3, 2020, we had approximately 50,000 employees, including approximately 20,000 engineers and scientists.

 1

We structure our operations primarily around the products, systems and services we sell and the markets we serve. We implemented a new organizational structure effective at the beginning of the Fiscal Transition Period (as defined below), which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also our reportable segments and are referred to as our business segments:

•Integrated Mission Systems, including multi-mission intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) and communication systems; integrated electrical and electronic systems for maritime platforms; and advanced electro-optical and infrared (“EO/IR”) solutions;

•Space and Airborne Systems, including space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions; classified intelligence and cyber defense; avionics; and electronic warfare;

•Communication Systems, including tactical communications; broadband communications; integrated vision solutions; and public safety; and

•Aviation Systems, including defense aviation products; security, detection and other commercial aviation products; commercial and military pilot training; and mission networks for air traffic management (“ATM”).

The historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this Report reflect the impact of these changes to our segment reporting for all periods presented in order to present segment information on a comparable basis. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets, statements of cash flows or statements of equity resulting from these changes. 

L3Harris Merger

As noted above and described in more detail in Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies under “Principles of Consolidation” and Note 5: Business Combination in the Notes, we completed the L3Harris Merger on June 29, 2019, the day after Harris’ fiscal 2019 ended and the first day of our Fiscal Transition Period (as defined below). L3 was a prime contractor in ISR systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment, and security and detection systems. L3 also was a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electro-optical solutions, and electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. L3 customers included the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”) and its prime contractors, the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), foreign governments and domestic and foreign commercial customers. 

Change in Fiscal Year

Through fiscal 2019, our fiscal years ended on the Friday nearest June 30. Commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period that commenced on June 29, 2019 was a fiscal transition period that ended on January 3, 2020 (“Fiscal Transition Period”). 

Subsequent Events

As described in more detail in Note 28: Subsequent Events in the Notes, on February 4, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will sell Security & Detection Systems and MacDonald Humfrey Automation solutions (“airport security and automation business”) to Leidos, Inc. for $1 billion in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. The sale transaction is conditioned on customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. We expect the sale transaction to close in mid-2020; however, there can be no assurances that the conditions will be satisfied (or waived, if applicable) or that closing will occur in mid-2020 or at all. We intend to use the proceeds from the sale of the airport security and automation businesses to repurchase shares of our common stock. The airport security and automation business provides solutions used by the aviation and transportation industries, regulatory and customs authorities, government and law enforcement agencies and commercial and other high-security facilities. The decision to divest the airport security and automation business represented a significant milestone in our strategic priority to reshape our portfolio and focus our resources on core technologies following the L3Harris Merger. Because the expected disposal of the airport security and automation business did not meet the held for sale criteria as of January 3, 2020, the assets and liabilities of the airport security and automation business were not classified as held for sale in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 3, 2020. 

Divestitures

The following paragraphs summarize recent divestitures. For additional information related to divestitures, some of which were reported as discontinued operations, see Note 3: Divestitures, Asset Sales and Discontinued Operations in the Notes. Our historical financial results for all periods presented in this Report have been restated to account for businesses reported as discontinued operations in this Report. Except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this Report relate solely to our continuing operations.

Divestiture of the Harris Night Vision Business. On September 13, 2019, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business to Elbit Systems of America, LLC, a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd., for $350 million (net cash proceeds of $343 million after selling costs and estimated purchase price adjustments), subject to final customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement. The Harris Night Vision business was not included in any of the business segments in our new 

 2

organizational structure and the operating results of the Harris Night Vision business through the date of the divestiture are discussed and presented as part of “Other non-reportable business segments” in this Report. 

Divestiture of Government IT Services Business. On April 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of Veritas Capital Management, L.L.C. of our government information technology (“IT”) services business (“IT Services”), which primarily provided IT and engineering managed services to U.S. Government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. The decision to divest IT Services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. IT Services is reported as discontinued operations in this Report. 

Divestiture of Harris CapRock Communications Commercial Business.  On January 1, 2017, we completed the divestiture to SpeedCast International Ltd. of our Harris CapRock Communications commercial business (“CapRock”), which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $368 million, after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sale agreement. The decision to divest CapRock was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses. CapRock is reported as discontinued operations in this Report.

Description of Business by Segment

Our four business segments provide a wide-range of products and services to various customers and are described below. Financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is contained in Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference, and for additional information with respect to our business segments, see “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting our business segments, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers: Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report. 

Integrated Mission Systems

Integrated Mission Systems segment revenue of $2,774 million for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, represented 30 percent of our total revenue. With a diverse portfolio of more than 300 programs, this segment is comprised of three business sectors: ISR, Maritime and Electro Optical, the principal products and services of which are described below. This segment principally consists of operating businesses acquired in the L3Harris Merger. 

ISR: We develop and maintain multi-mission ISR and communication systems, including fleet management support services, sensor development, modifications and periodic depot maintenance for ISR and airborne missions. Significant customers include DoD and classified customers within the U.S. Government, U.K. Ministry of Defence, Royal Australian Air Force and other select foreign military services. 

Maritime: We are a manufacturer and integrator of maritime integrated command, control, communications, computers and cyber ISR (“C5ISR”) systems for maritime platforms, specializing in signals intelligence and multi-intelligence platforms; unmanned surface and undersea autonomous solutions; power and ship control systems and other electronic and electrical products and systems. Significant customers include the U.S. Navy (“USN”), the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Army, allied navies, other military customers and commercial ship owners. 

Electro Optical: We design and manufacture advanced EO/IR sensors and surveillance and targeting systems and provide modernization and life extension maintenance upgrade and support services for military aircraft. Significant customers include the National Aeronautics Space Administration, DoD, USN, U.S. Air Force (“USAF”), select foreign militaries and commercial space companies.

 Additional information regarding the composition of Integrated Mission Systems revenue for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020 is as follows:

•75 percent was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors;

•69 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; 

•17 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the U.S.; and

•8 percent and 44 percent was derived from this segment’s largest and ten largest programs, respectively.

Space and Airborne Systems

Space and Airborne Systems segment revenue of $2,360 million for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, represented 25 percent of our total revenue. With a diverse portfolio of more than 300 programs, this segment is comprised of four business sectors: Space, Intel & Cyber, Avionics and Electronic Warfare, the principal products and services of which are described below. This segment consists of a mix of operating businesses acquired in the L3Harris Merger and legacy Harris operating businesses, 

 3

including nearly all of the operating businesses of our pre-merger Space and Intelligence Systems and Electronic Systems segments, except: the mission networks ATM operating business noted below in the description of Aviation Systems. 

Space: We provide intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT’) and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. Many of these solutions include reliable resilient and innovative capabilities. We are a global provider of PNT products, systems and solutions. Our navigation payload technology is an integral component of U.S. Global Positioning System (‘GPS”) satellites and supports GPS availability, accuracy and integrity. We also provide space antenna systems and precision space structures. We are an experienced space reflector manufacturer and specialize in large, high-accuracy reflectors, which can range from unfurlable and fixed-mesh reflector antennas to solid spot beam antennas. Some of the more significant programs in this sector include:

•System Engineering and Sustainment Integrator (“SENSOR”), a program to maintain and modernize radar installations and provide engineering support and sustainment for ground-based systems for the USAF:

•Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite - Series R (“GOES-R”), a program to design, develop and build systems to measure, understand and monitor weather and environmental trends for the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and

•GPS III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the USAF.

Intel & Cyber: We provide situational awareness optical networks and advanced wireless solutions for classified intelligence and cyber defense. Although classified programs are generally not discussed in this Report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report. We believe that the business risks associated with our classified programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with our other U.S. Government programs. 

Avionics: We provide avionic sensors, hardened electronics, release systems, data links and antennas supporting fixed wing and rotary platforms. Significant customers include military aircraft manufacturers, DoD customers within the U.S. Government and select foreign military services. For the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”) and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet (“F/A-18”) aircraft, we provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and switching, image processing, digital map software and other electronic components, including Mulifunction Advanced Data Link communication subsystems primarily intended for stealth platform air-to-air communications.

Electronic Warfare: We provide multi-spectral situational awareness, threat warning and countermeasures capabilities for electronic warfare solutions for airborne and maritime platforms. Significant customers include military aircraft manufacturers, DoD customers within the U.S. Government and select foreign military services. Examples of our electronic warfare technology include: 

•Our advanced integrated defense electronic warfare systems (“AIDEWS”) that provide integrated and podded self-protection and jamming;

•Our integrated defensive electronic countermeasures (“IDECM”) system for the F/A-18;

•Our counter-radio controlled improvised explosive device technology that protects ground forces in asymmetrical combat environments; and

•Our land-based surveillance radar that provides three-dimensional radar capability for airborne defensive

surveillance for the USN.

Additional information regarding the composition of Space and Airborne Systems revenue for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020 is as follows:

•88 percent was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors;

•57 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; 

•14 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the U.S.; and

•5 percent and 35 percent was derived from this segment’s largest and ten largest programs, respectively.

For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

Communication Systems

Communication Systems segment revenue of $2,151 million for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, represented 23 percent of our total revenue. This segment is comprised of four business sectors: Tactical Communications, Broadband Communications. Integrated Vision Solutions and Public Safety, the principal products and services of which are described below. This segment consists of a mix of operating businesses acquired in the L3Harris Merger and operating businesses from our pre-merger Communication Systems segment. 

 4

Tactical Communications: We provide tactical radio communications, SATCOM terminals and battlefield management networks for U.S. and international defense customers. Some of our more significant tactical radio products include:

•Our 2-channel handheld radio, the AN/PRC-163, for the U.S. Special Operations Command (“SOCOM”) Special Operations Forces Tactical Communications (“STC”) program and the U.S. Army 2-Channel Leader Radio program;

•Our multi-channel manpack radio, the AN/PRC-158; 

•Our wideband high frequency (“HF”) manpack radios, the AN/PRC-160; and

•Our multiband manpack radio, the AN/PRC-117G, for which we have been providing Mobile User Objective System (“MUOS”) waveform software upgrades to enable connectivity to DoD’s next-generation MUOS satellite system.

We operate in this market principally on a “commercial” market-driven business model. We believe our business model, which drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market.

Broadband Communications: We develop, design, manufacture and integrate broadband secured mobile networked communication equipment, including airborne, space and surface data link terminals, ground stations and transportable tactical SATCOM systems used on manned aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles (“UAVs”) and naval ships. Significant customers include U.S. defense and intelligence agencies.

Integrated Visions Solutions: We provide a full suite of helmet and weapon mounted integrated night vision systems for U.S. and international customers. 

Public Safety: We provide radios, systems applications and equipment for critical public safety and professional communications. 

•We design, build, supply and maintain wireless communications systems, including digital trunked, statewide, multi-agency systems for public safety communications and large, wide-area and multi-state land mobile radio (“LMR”) and radio frequency (“RF”) systems for some of the largest utility companies in the U.S.

•We offer a full range of single-band LMR terminals, as well as multiband radios that include a handheld radio and a full-spectrum mobile radio for vehicles. 

Additional information regarding the composition of Communication Systems revenue for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020 is as follows:

•69 percent was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors;

•65 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; and

•29 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the U.S.

Aviation Systems

Aviation Systems segment revenue of $2,038 million for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, represented 22 percent of our total revenue. This segment is comprised of four business sectors: Defense Aviation Products, Commercial Aviation Products, Commercial and Military Training and Mission Networks, the principal products and services of which are described below. This segment principally consists of operating businesses acquired in the L3Harris Merger, but includes the mission networks ATM operating business from Harris’ former Electronic Systems segment.

Defense Aviation Products: We provide precision engagement sensors and systems, small UAVs, antennas and arrays, RF amplifiers and microwave electronic devices. In addition, this business sector provides combat vehicle engines, transmissions and GPS receivers for guided projectiles and precision munitions as well as navigation for fire control systems. Significant customers include U.S. defense and foreign military agencies. 

Commercial Aviation Products: We provide airport security and detection solutions, including offerings such as airport security screening solutions and threat and contraband detection and body scanning systems. In addition, we provide automation and integration services for airports, automotive manufacturing and other industries. We also provide airborne avionics products, such as traffic collision avoidance and flight recorders. Significant customers include the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, domestic and international airports and port operators, the U.S. Customs and Border Control agency and international equivalents, commercial airplane manufacturers, commercial airlines and automotive manufacturers.

On February 4, 2020, as part of our ongoing process to reshape our business portfolio to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the airport security and automation business within our Commercial Aviation Products business sector to Leidos, Inc. for $1 billion in cash. See Note 28: Subsequent Events in the Notes for additional information. 

Commercial and Military Training: We provide commercial and military pilot training and flight and maintenance simulation solutions to commercial airlines, aircraft manufacturers, DoD and foreign military agencies.

Mission Networks: We provide mission-critical infrastructure communications and networking solutions for ATM for the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and international airspace national service providers. We are the prime contractor 

 5

and system architect for the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure (“FTI”) program and several major FAA Next Generation Air Transportation System (“NextGen”) programs to transform and upgrade the National Airspace System (“NAS”), including the Automatic Depend4ent Surveillance-Broadcast (“ADS-B”) program. 

 Additional information regarding the composition of Aviation Systems revenue for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020 is as follows:

•59 percent was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors;

•61 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; and

•26 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the U.S.

International Business

Revenue from products and services where the end consumer is located outside the U.S., including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, was $2.0 billion (21 percent of our revenue) in the two quarters ended January 3, 2020. Revenue from products and services where the end consumer is located outside the U.S., including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, was $1.5 billion (22 percent of our revenue), $1.4 billion (23 percent of our revenue) and $1.5 billion (25 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Direct export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. Financial information regarding our domestic and international operations, including long-lived assets, is contained in Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.

The majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries that operate in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia-Pacific) regions and Canada. We also have established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. For further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 of this Report.

International revenue for the two quarters ended January 3, 2020 came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 5 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried on an open account. Advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to remain competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers.

We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. These independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. 

The particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those encountered by businesses in the U.S. We believe that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. A description of the types of risks to which we are subject in our international business is contained in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. In our opinion, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments.

Competition

We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. Some of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. In each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that we believe are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. We frequently “partner” or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. Our principal competitors include BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, Thales and United Technologies. 

Principal Customers; Government Contracts 

The percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was approximately 73 percent in the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, and was approximately 77 percent, 75 percent and 74 percent in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, 

 6

respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenue in the two quarters ended January 3, 2020. Additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with departments and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales in our Space and Airborne Systems and Integrated Mission Systems segments are made directly or indirectly to the U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or for default based on performance.

Our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Government-wide Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”) and multi-vendor indefinite duration-indefinite quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts.

Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer’s discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. Under our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. Examples include certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs.

Our U.S. Government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work or sell a specific product for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. Under our U.S. Government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the U.S. Government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive from the U.S. Government either milestone payments totaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract. The remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. Our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts.

As stated above, U.S. Government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the U.S. Government, as well as for default based on performance. Companies supplying goods and services to the U.S. Government are dependent on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. Long-term U.S. Government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. Under contracts terminable for the convenience of the U.S. Government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. Contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the U.S. Government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. In many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Under many U.S. Government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with DoD and other Federal agency requirements. 

In addition, the U.S. Government recently has increased its focus on procurement process improvement initiatives and has implemented certain changes in its procurement practices. These developments may change the way U.S. Government contracts are solicited, negotiated and managed, which may affect whether and how we pursue opportunities to provide our products and services to the U.S. Government, including the terms and conditions under which we do so, which may have an adverse impact to our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, contracts awarded under the DoD’s Other Transaction Authority for research and prototypes generally require cost-sharing and may not follow, or may follow only in part, standard U.S. Government contracting practices and terms, such as the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”) and Cost Accounting Standards.

For further discussion of risks relating to U.S. Government contracts, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.

 7

Backlog

Company-wide total backlog was $20.6 billion at January 3, 2020, of which $16.2 billion was funded backlog, compared with $8.3 billion at June 28, 2019, of which $5.8 billion was funded backlog. We acquired $11.7 billion of total backlog in the L3Harris Merger, of which $10.3 billion was funded backlog. We expect to recognize approximately 60 percent of the revenue associated with Company-wide total backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with Company-wide total backlog within the next three years. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control.

We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of U.S. Government customers, appropriated. The level of order activity related to U.S. Government programs can be affected by the timing of U.S. Government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. Year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others. The determination of the unfunded portion of total backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. 

Backlog information for each of our business segments is contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

See Note 24: Backlog in the Notes for additional information regarding Company-wide total backlog. 

Research and Development

Company-sponsored research and development (“R&D”) costs, which include R&D for commercial products and services and independent R&D related to government products and services, were approximately $329 million in the two quarters ended January 3, 2020. R&D costs were approximately $331 million, $311 million and $310 million in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A portion of our independent R&D costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Company-sponsored R&D costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. Company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in various markets. 

Customer-sponsored R&D costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally U.S. Government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs). This research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. Customer-sponsored research costs are accounted for principally by the cost-to-cost percentage-of-completion method and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services. 

Patents and Other Intellectual Property

We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. We also license intellectual property to and from third parties. As of January 3, 2020, we held approximately 2,460 U.S. patents and 2,070 foreign patents, and had approximately 280 U.S. patent applications pending and 280 foreign patent applications pending. Unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. We are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. Although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. From time to time, we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. Any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. For further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. With regard to certain patents, the U.S. Government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the U.S. Government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. Pursuant to similar arrangements, the U.S. Government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. Numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset.

Environmental and Other Regulations

Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to waste and emissions. The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. We believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have 

 8

installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. A portion of our environmental expenditures relates to businesses or operations we no longer own, but for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. We did not spend material amounts on environmental-related capital projects in the two quarters ended January 3, 2020 or fiscal 2019, 2018 or 2017. Based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2020 or over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to be material or to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations, and such expenditures may increase in future years. If future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. 

Additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report and in Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies and Note 26: Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes.

Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the European Union’s Directive 2012/19/EU on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Directive 2011/65/EU on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our segments. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products.

Wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. Equipment produced in our Communication Systems and Space and Airborne Systems segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. We are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Raw Materials and Supplies

Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. We are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. Although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. On occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the RoHS environmental regulations in the European Union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. These events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. As of January 3, 2020, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. For further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.

Seasonality

We do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance.

Employees

We had approximately 50,000 employees at January 3, 2020, approximately 86 percent of which were located in the U.S. A significant number of our employees possess a U.S. Government security clearance. We also utilize a number of independent contractors. As of January 3, 2020, approximately 3,000 of our U.S. employees were working under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions and worker representatives. These collective bargaining agreements will be renegotiated at various times over the next three years as they expire. We have historically renegotiated these agreements without significant disruption to operating activities. For certain international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

 9

Website Access to L3Harris Reports; Available Information

General. We maintain an Internet website at https://www.l3harris.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, this Report, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request to our Secretary at L3Harris Technologies, Inc., 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919. We also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval, or EDGAR, system available through the SEC’s website at https://www.sec.gov.

Additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.

Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters. We previously adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website at https://www.l3harris.com/corporate-governance. In addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our Board of Directors, namely, the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary at L3Harris Technologies, Inc., 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919.

Certifications. We have filed with the SEC the certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the NYSE in November 2019 in accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by L3Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.

 ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.