PART I

Item 1. Business:

International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 90 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today—we create value for clients by providing integrated solutions and products that leverage: data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, with trust and security and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities for clients that transform their businesses and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT implementation services, cloud, digital and cognitive offerings, and enterprise systems and software which are all bolstered by one of the world’s leading research organizations.

IBM Strategy

IBM’s strategy begins with our clients. IBM is distinguished as being first and foremost an Enterprise company, serving the world’s leaders in their industries.

Serving enterprises requires a distinct set of skills as our clients entrust us with building, integrating and running the world’s mission-critical systems. These are systems that cannot fail, systems that require the highest levels of privacy and security. They are built with our software and on our systems, designed and managed by IBM services. For example, we manage approximately ninety percent of the credit card transactions and half of the world’s wireless connections. We do this with an unparalleled commitment to our clients’ data security.

We are unique in bringing innovative technology and industry expertise on a foundation of trust and security as an integrated proposition to our clients. This integrated proposition allows us to deliver business impact that matters to our clients, impact that requires bringing together technologies such as hybrid cloud, data and AI insight with workflow and advanced industry skills. This integrated proposition helps our clients transform themselves from traditional businesses to what we call Cognitive Enterprises.

Furthermore, as technology becomes more central for business, as well as in our personal lives, trust matters more than ever. For decades we have followed core principles grounded in commitments to trust and transparency that guide our responsible development and deployment of new technologies. These values ground our business decisions, inspire our employees, and sustain our client relationships. We have not only followed guidelines around the responsible handling of data and the stewardship of new technology, but created them, published them and invited others to adopt similar commitments. Our focus is not just on our direct client work, but extends to society at large, as we have been very active in areas such as education, sustainability and security. This is reinforced through a culture of inclusion and diversity. All of IBM treats this “responsible stewardship” as core to our mission.

A New Chapter in Technology

2019 ushered in Chapter 2 of our clients’ digital journeys in which the two predominant technology forces of our day—hybrid cloud and data/AI—are moving from “start-up” to “production at scale”. These two forces work together to help companies become what we call Cognitive Enterprises—companies that are powered by innovation, agility and data-driven intelligent decision making.

We describe below how IBM is leading the way in Chapter 2.

1 
Hybrid Cloud

Chapter 1 marked the early stages of cloud with the rise of public cloud. This stage was focused on new end-user applications, including applications that have allowed consumers to check their bank balances, access social media, make online purchases and receive online support. While movement to public cloud has been strong, only twenty percent of workloads have been addressed in Chapter 1. Clients are merely at the beginning of a multi-stage journey.

Chapter 2 is about clients modernizing the remaining eighty percent of workloads, moving mission-critical workloads to the cloud and infusing AI deep into the decision-making of their businesses. These mission-critical workloads include core financial transaction systems, customer databases and Enterprise Resource Planning systems. Some of these workloads will gravitate to the public cloud in Chapter 2, while others will move to a private cloud or remain in traditional IT environments for security, compliance and/or performance reasons.

Wherever clients’ workloads reside, these environments must work together seamlessly to communicate, share data and share capacity. With enterprises having accumulated as many as fifteen public clouds, each with its own means of management, harmonizing these different clouds has become a necessity. Bringing these multiple public clouds, private cloud and traditional IT together is what we call hybrid cloud. Hybrid cloud defines the mission for Chapter 2 in IT.

We are a leader in hybrid cloud, and our mission in Chapter 2 is to bring our expertise and experience in building and managing mission-critical systems to lead our enterprise clients along this multi-stage journey.

Our public cloud is built on a foundation of open source software and enterprise grade infrastructure. It is the most open and secure public cloud, and it is built for the enterprise with Cloud Paks—enterprise-ready, containerized software solutions for applications, automation, data, integration and multi-cloud management.

To accelerate our clients’ success, we acquired Red Hat in 2019, further strengthening our leadership in hybrid cloud. Red Hat is the world’s leader in open source technology, including Enterprise Linux, the operating system of the cloud, as well as containers and OpenShift, technology platforms that create seamless integration between traditional and cloud environments. As the leader in open source, Red Hat brings capability that enables applications to be “written once and run anywhere”, in turn helping companies avoid lock-in to a single cloud provider, thereby taking advantage of the entire industry’s innovation. These technologies are central to the next era of computing.

Our systems and services play a large role in these hybrid cloud offerings as well. We have introduced new versions of our systems that work securely and seamlessly in the hybrid cloud, bringing mission-critical workloads into our clients’ digital journeys. Through our services, we play a large role in helping our clients map out their digital journeys, and then helping them build, manage and run the technology and the workflows.

This integrated value proposition of innovative technology and industry expertise built on trust and security, and now together with Red Hat, is helping our clients realize the full potential and competitive advantage of the hybrid cloud.

Data and AI 

A new era of business reinvention is emerging as leading companies are moving from merely improving their processes to creating truly “intelligent workflows,” processes that are not only efficient at what they do, but intrinsically smart: capable of finding, connecting and analyzing data to uncover deep insights that can inform intelligent decisions. Data and AI, in concert with hybrid cloud, are making intelligent workflows possible.

We have been a pioneer of technologies and services that help clients collect, organize, and analyze their vast data stores and then operationalize AI across their business. Our long-running innovation in automation, data science, and natural language processing is helping clients manage their data as a strategic resource and deploy AI for greater insight and more accurate, trusted predictions.

2 
Our data offerings help clients organize, collect, analyze and embed their data into their workflow. IBM software spans areas ranging from data management and discovery to reporting, governance, compliance and risk management. Our systems process our clients’ data with unparalleled speed, accuracy and security and our services help clients capture and embed the value of their data into their business.

Our IBM Watson AI system has been named by industry analysts as the worldwide market leader in AI for three consecutive years. Watson is not only a leading AI technology, but a leader in enterprise deployments in production and at scale. In addition to extracting deep insight from data, IBM Watson allows clients to trace the origins of the data that their AI models use, explain what is behind their recommendations and ensure that bias has not crept into results. Furthermore, IBM Watson is the only system that is built for the hybrid cloud, able to work on numerous public and private clouds. These innovations are making AI more consumable by everyday users, not just data scientists.

Creating intelligent workflows relies on our integrated proposition of technology, services and industry expertise, built on a foundation of trust and security. The way in which we bring these together is through an interactive process with our clients that we call the IBM Garage, a process of deep collaboration, co-creation and innovation.

* * * * *

We are in an era when our clients are embedding technology into their businesses in ways they have never done before. Technology is no longer merely a “tool”, it is at the center of their businesses, the source of their competitive advantage and the force behind their emerging business models.

In Chapter 2, IBM is bringing hybrid cloud and data/AI together to help our clients reinvent themselves as Cognitive Enterprises. The most challenging and complex work still lies ahead. With our strong commitment to responsible stewardship and our integrated value proposition, this makes us unique in helping our clients on their transformative digital journeys.

Business Model

Our business model is built to provide long-term value to stakeholders. We bring together innovative technology, industry expertise and a commitment to trust and transparency to help enterprise clients move from one era to the next. We provide integrated solutions and platforms, leveraging global capabilities that include services, software, systems, related financings and fundamental research. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.

The business model is dynamic, adapting to the continuously changing industry and economic environment, including our shift to cloud delivery models. We continue to strengthen our position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas, broadening our industry expertise and integrating AI into more of what we offer. In addition, we are transforming into a more agile enterprise to drive innovation and speed, as well as helping to drive productivity, which supports investments for participation in markets with significant long-term opportunity. We also regularly evaluate our portfolio and investments, proactively bringing products to end of life, engaging in intellectual property (IP) partnerships and executing divestitures to optimize our portfolio.

This business model, supported by our financial model, has enabled IBM to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term.

Business Segments and Capabilities

Our major operations consist of five business segments: Cloud & Cognitive Software, Global Business Services, Global Technology Services, Systems and Global Financing.

3 
 Cloud & Cognitive Software brings together IBM’s software platforms and solutions, enabling us to deliver integrated and secure cloud, data and AI solutions to our clients. It includes all software, except operating system software reported in the Systems segment. 

​

 Cloud & Cognitive Software comprises three business areas — Cognitive Applications, Cloud & Data Platforms, and Transaction Processing Platforms. 

​

Cloud & Cognitive Software Capabilities

 Cognitive Applications: includes software that address vertical and domain-specific solutions, increasingly infused with AI, enabled by IBM’s Watson technology. Application areas such as health, financial services, Internet of Things (IoT) solutions, weather, and security software and services are among the offerings. 

​

 Cloud & Data Platforms: includes the company’s distributed middleware and data platform software, including Red Hat, which enables the operation of clients’ hybrid multi-cloud environments, whether on-premise or in public and private clouds. It also includes product areas such as Cloud Paks, WebSphere distributed, analytics platform software such as DB2 distributed, information integration, and enterprise content management, as well as IoT, Blockchain and AI/Watson platforms. 

​

 As clients increasingly move more of their mission-critical workloads to the cloud, their multi-cloud environments will be based on a foundation of Linux, with Kubernetes open-source software to deploy, manage and scale container-based applications. Red Hat, which provides the leading Linux operating system — Red Hat Enterprise Linux — and the leading hybrid cloud platform — Red Hat OpenShift — is at the center of this transformational shift among clients.

​

 Transaction Processing Platforms: the software that supports client mission critical on-premise workloads in industries such as banking, airlines and retail. This includes transaction processing software such as Customer Information Control System and storage software, as well as the analytics and integration software running on IBM operating systems (e.g., DB2 and WebSphere running on z/OS). 

​

Global Business Services (GBS) provides clients with consulting, business process and application management services. These professional services deliver value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry, technology and business strategy and process expertise. GBS is the digital reinvention partner for IBM clients, combining industry knowledge, functional expertise, and applications with the power of business design and cognitive and cloud technologies. The full portfolio of GBS services is backed by its globally integrated delivery network and integration with technologies, solutions and services across IBM including IBM Research and Global Technology Services.

 GBS assists clients on their journeys to becoming Cognitive Enterprises, helping them build business platform strategies and experiences, transform processes to intelligent workflows using AI and other exponential technologies, and build hybrid, open cloud infrastructures. 

​

GBS Capabilities

Consulting: provides business consulting services focused on bringing to market solutions that help clients shape their digital blueprints and customer experiences, define their cognitive operating models, unlock the potential in all data to improve decision-making, set their next-generation talent strategies and create new technology architectures in a cloud-centric world.

Application Management: delivers system integration, application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and traditional applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as security and privacy, application testing and modernization, cloud application migration and automation.

Global Process Services (GPS): delivers finance, procurement, talent and engagement, and industry-specific business process outsourcing services. These services deliver improved business results to clients through a 

4 
consult-to-operate model which includes the strategic change and/or operation of the client’s processes, applications and infrastructure. GBS is redefining process services for both growth and efficiency through the application of the power of cognitive technologies like Watson, as well as the IoT, blockchain and deep analytics.

Global Technology Services (GTS) provides comprehensive IT infrastructure and platform services that create business value for clients. Clients gain access to leading-edge, high-quality services, and realize greater flexibility and economic value. This is enabled through insights drawn from IBM’s decades of experience across thousands of engagements, the skills of practitioners, advanced technologies, applied innovation from IBM Research and global scale.

GTS Capabilities

Infrastructure & Cloud Services: delivers a portfolio of project, managed, outsourcing and cloud-delivered services focused on clients’ enterprise IT infrastructure environments to enable digital transformation with improved quality, flexibility and economic value. The portfolio contains the IBM Cloud and a comprehensive set of hybrid cloud services and solutions that include resiliency, network and security capabilities to assist enterprise clients in building and running contemporary, software-defined IT environments. These offerings integrate long-standing expertise in service management and emerging technologies, drawn from across IBM’s businesses and ecosystem partners. The portfolio is built leveraging platforms, such as the IBM Services Platform with Watson, which augment human intelligence with cognitive technologies and address complex, hybrid cloud environments. IBM’s services capabilities integrate IBM Cloud, cognitive computing and multi-cloud management to provide clients with high-performance, end-to-end innovation and an improved ability to achieve business objectives.

 Technology Support Services: delivers comprehensive support services to maintain and improve the availability of clients’ IT infrastructures. These offerings include maintenance for IBM products and other technology platforms, as well as open-source and cross-vendor software and solution support, drawing on innovative technologies and leveraging IBM Services Platform with Watson capabilities.

Systems provides clients with innovative infrastructure platforms to help meet the new requirements of hybrid multi-cloud and enterprise AI workloads. IBM Systems also designs advanced semiconductor and systems technology in collaboration with IBM Research, primarily for use in our systems.

Systems Capabilities

Systems Hardware: includes IBM’s servers and Storage Systems.

Servers: a range of high-performance systems designed to address computing capacity, security and performance needs of businesses, hyperscale cloud service providers and scientific computing organizations. The portfolio includes IBM Z and LinuxONE, trusted enterprise platforms for integrating data, transactions and insight; and Power Systems, a system designed from the ground up for big data and enterprise AI, optimized for hybrid cloud and Linux.

Storage Systems: data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information and to fuel data-centric cognitive applications. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization, including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of flash storage, disk and tape storage solutions.

Operating Systems Software: IBM Z operating system environments include z/OS, a security-rich, high-performance enterprise operating system, as well as Linux. Power Systems offers a choice of AIX, IBM i or Linux operating systems. These operating systems leverage POWER architecture to deliver secure, reliable and high performing enterprise-class workloads across a breadth of server offerings.

Global Financing encompasses two primary businesses: financing, primarily conducted through IBM Credit LLC (IBM Credit), and remanufacturing and remarketing. IBM Credit is a wholly owned subsidiary of IBM that accesses the capital markets directly. IBM Credit, through its financing solutions, facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information 

5 
technology systems, software and services in the areas where we have expertise. The financing arrangements are predominantly for products or services that are critical to the end users’ business operations. Global Financing conducts a comprehensive credit evaluation of its clients prior to extending financing. As a captive financier, Global Financing has the benefit of both deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services financed. These factors allow the business to effectively manage two of the major risks associated with financing, credit and residual value, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also maintains a long-term partnership with IBM’s clients through various stages of the IT asset life cycle—from initial purchase and technology upgrades to asset disposition decisions.

Global Financing Capabilities

Client Financing: lease, installment payment plan and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms up to seven years. Assets financed are primarily new and used IT hardware, software and services where we have expertise. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Global Technology Services’ long-term client service contracts. All internal financing arrangements are at arm’s-length rates and are based upon market conditions.

Commercial Financing: short-term working capital financing to suppliers, distributors and resellers of IBM. Beginning in the second quarter of 2019 and continuing throughout the year, we wound down the portion of our commercial financing operations which provides short-term working capital solutions for Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) IT suppliers, distributors and resellers. This wind down is consistent with IBM’s capital allocation strategy and high-value focus. Commercial Financing also includes internal activity where Global Financing factors a selected portion of IBM’s accounts receivable primarily for cash management purposes, at arm’s-length rates. This program was suspended in the second quarter of 2019.

Remanufacturing and Remarketing: assets include used equipment returned from lease transactions, or used and surplus equipment acquired internally or externally. These assets may be refurbished or upgraded, and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally and internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Global Technology Services. Systems may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients.

IBM Worldwide Organizations

The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM’s delivery of value to its clients:

●Global Markets

●Research, Development and Intellectual Property

Global Markets

IBM operates in more than 175 countries with a broad distribution of revenue. To manage this global footprint, Global Markets leads our dedicated country-based IBM operations in order to serve clients, develop markets, and ultimately, ensure IBM is led through a client lens.

These integrated teams serve our clients locally, complemented by digital capabilities, global talent and resources, and an extensive partner ecosystem. These country teams have client relationship managers at their center, who integrate teams of IBM consultants, solution specialists, delivery professionals and business partners on behalf of clients. Their mission is to provide insights and innovation and co-create with clients to help them address their most pressing business challenges and opportunities.

In this way, we serve as a trusted partner to clients, establishing and maintaining relationships that deliver long- term value based on industry expertise, innovative technologies and an ability to deliver mission critical capabilities to an enterprise at scale. 

6 
Research, Development and Intellectual Property

Our research and development (R&D) operations differentiate us from our competitors. In 2019, we invested approximately 8 percent of total revenue for R&D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and our business units through global labs on near- and mid-term innovations. It delivers many new technologies to our portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research scientists are conducting pioneering work in artificial intelligence, quantum computing, security, cloud, systems and more—applying these technologies across industries including financial services, healthcare, manufacturing and automotive.

In 2019, for the 27th consecutive year, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company. IBM’s 9,262 patents awarded in 2019 represent a diverse range of inventions in strategic growth areas for the company, including more than 4,500 patents related to work in artificial intelligence, cloud, cybersecurity and quantum computing.

We actively continue to seek IP protection for our innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage our IP leadership. Some of our technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. As part of our business model, we license certain of our IP assets, which constitute high-value technology, but may be applicable in more mature markets. The licensee drives the future development of the IP and ultimately expands the customer base. This generates IP income for IBM both upon licensing, and with any ongoing royalty arrangements between it and the licensee. While our various proprietary IP rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products.

Competition

IBM is a globally integrated enterprise that participates in a highly competitive environment, where our competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across our business segments, we recognize hundreds of competitors worldwide.

Our principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; our broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. Over the last several years, we have been making investments and shifting resources, embedding AI and cloud into our offerings while building new solutions and modernizing our existing platforms. These investments not only drive current performance, but will extend our innovation leadership into the future. Our key differentiators are built around three pillars–innovative technology, industry expertise and trust and security, uniquely delivered through an integrated model. As we execute our strategy, we have entered into new markets, such as hybrid cloud, digital, analytics, AI, blockchain and quantum, and deployed new delivery models, including as-a-Service solutions, each of which expose us to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of our business segments.

A summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below:

Cloud & Cognitive Software:

The depth and breadth of our software offerings, coupled with our global markets, deep industry expertise and technical support infrastructure help differentiate our offerings from our competitors. IBM’s research and development capabilities and IP patent portfolio also contribute to differentiation. The principal competitors in this segment include Alphabet Inc. (Google), Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon), BMC, Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Oracle Corporation (Oracle), Salesforce, SAP and VMware. We also compete with smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets.

7 
Global Business Services and Global Technology Services:

Our services segments, GBS and GTS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. Competitive factors in these business segments include: quality of services, innovative offerings, financial value, technical skills and capabilities, industry knowledge and experience and speed of execution. Our competitive advantages in these businesses comes from our ability to design, implement, manage and support integrated solutions that address complex client needs across hybrid cloud environments. These solutions leverage automation, AI, extensive expertise in technology and innovation, services assets, and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide.

Global Business Services:

GBS competes in consulting, systems integration, application management and business process outsourcing services. We compete with broad based competitors including: Accenture, Capgemini, DXC Technology (DXC), Fujitsu; cloud services providers, such as Google and Microsoft; India-based service providers; the consulting practices of public accounting firms; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas.

Global Technology Services:

GTS competes in project services, managed and outsourcing services, cloud-delivered services, and technical and IT support services. Our competitors include: Atos, DXC, Fujitsu, HCL, Tata Consulting Services, Wipro and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas. We also compete with the ecosystems of cloud platform vendors such as Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Oracle.

Systems:

 The enterprise server and storage markets are characterized by competition in technology and service innovation focused on value, function, reliability, price and cost performance and as-a-Service delivery. Our principal competitors include Dell Technologies, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise (HPE), Intel and original device manufacturer systems that are often re-branded. Also, alternative as-a-Service providers are leveraging innovation in technology and service delivery both to compete with traditional providers and to offer new routes to market for server and storage systems. These alternative providers include Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and IBM’s own cloud-based services.

We gain advantage and differentiation through investments in higher value capabilities—from semiconductor through software stack innovation—that increase efficiency, lower cost and improve performance. Our research and development capabilities and IP patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment’s leadership across areas as diverse as high-end and high-performance computing, virtualization technologies, software optimization, power management, security and resiliency, multi-operating system capabilities and open technologies like interconnect standards to be leveraged by broad ecosystems.

Global Financing:

Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remanufacturing and remarketing of used equipment. Global Financing’s access to capital and its ability to manage credit and residual value risk generates a competitive advantage for the company. The key competitive factors include interest rates charged, IT product experience, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of IT companies such as Cisco and HPE, non-captive financing entities and financial institutions. In remanufacturing and remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market.

8 
Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements

Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“Reform Act”). Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements by their nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in materials delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company’s representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Except as required by law, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” on pages 10 to 15 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company’s filings with the SEC or in materials incorporated therein by reference.

The following information is included in IBM’s 2019 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:

Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or services—pages 89 to 93.

Financial information regarding environmental activities—pages 113 and 114.

The number of persons employed by the registrant—page 64.

The management discussion overview—pages 27 to 29.

Website information and company reporting—page 142.

Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 25, 2020):[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Member of the Board of Directors.

All executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors annually as provided in the Company’s By-laws. Each executive officer named above has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.

​

9 
Item 1A. Risk Factors: