Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents (including money market funds and time deposits) and accounts receivable. The only significant concentrations of liquid investments as of December 31, 2019 relate to cash and cash equivalents held in money market funds with seven "Triple A" rated money market funds. As per our risk management investment policy, we limit exposure to concentration of credit risk by limiting the amount invested in any one mutual fund to a maximum of 1% of the fund total assets or in any one financial institution to a maximum of $50.0 million. As of December 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance, including restricted cash, was $193.6 million.

Interest Rate Risk

Given the recurring nature of our revenues and the long-term nature of our asset base, we have the ability and the preference to use long-term, fixed interest rate debt to finance our business at attractive rates, thereby helping to preserve our long-term returns on invested capital. We target approximately 75% of our debt portfolio to be fixed with respect to interest rates. Occasionally, we may use interest rate swaps as a tool to maintain our targeted level of fixed rate debt. 

In March 2018, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on a portion of our floating rate indebtedness. As of December 31, 2019, we had $350.0 million in notional value of interest rate swap agreements outstanding, which expire in March 2022. Under the interest rate swap agreements, we receive variable rate interest payments associated with the notional amount of each interest rate swap, based upon one-month LIBOR, in exchange for the payment of fixed interest rate payments (at the fixed interest rate specified in the interest rate swap agreements). 

In July 2019, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on a portion of our floating rate indebtedness once our current interest rate swaps expire in March 2022. The forward-starting interest rate swap agreements have $350.0 million in notional value, commence in March 2022 and expire in March 2024. Under the swap agreements we will receive variable rate interest payments based upon one-month LIBOR, in exchange for the payment of fixed interest rate payments at the rates specified in the interest rate swap agreements. We have designated these interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges. 

As of December 31, 2019, we had $1,692.5 million of variable rate debt outstanding with a weighted average variable interest rate of approximately 3.8%, and $7,059.0 million of fixed rate debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2019, approximately 81% of our total debt outstanding was fixed. If the weighted average variable interest rate on our variable rate debt had increased by 1%, our net income for the year ended December 31, 2019 would have been reduced by approximately $18.6 million. 

67
See Note 3 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a discussion on our interest rate swaps and Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a discussion of our long-term indebtedness, including the fair values of such indebtedness as of December 31, 2019.

Currency Risk 

Our international investments may be subject to risks and uncertainties related to fluctuations in currency valuation. Our reporting currency is the United States dollar. However, our international revenues and expenses are generated in the currencies of the countries in which we operate, primarily the British pound sterling, Euro, Canadian dollar, Brazilian real and the Australian dollar. Declines in the value of the local currencies in which we are paid relative to the United States dollar will cause revenues in United States dollar terms to decrease and dollar-denominated liabilities to increase in local currency.

The impact of currency fluctuations on our earnings is mitigated by the fact that most operating and other expenses are also incurred and paid in the local currency. We also have several intercompany obligations between our foreign subsidiaries and IMI and our United States-based subsidiaries. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries and IME also have intercompany obligations between them. These intercompany obligations are primarily denominated in the local currency of the foreign subsidiary.

We have adopted and implemented a number of strategies to mitigate the risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. One strategy is to finance certain of our international subsidiaries with debt that is denominated in local currencies, thereby providing a natural hedge. In determining the amount of any such financing, we take into account local tax considerations, among other factors. Another strategy we utilize is for IMI or IMIM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of IMI, to borrow in foreign currencies to hedge our intercompany financing activities. In addition, on occasion, we enter into currency swaps to temporarily or permanently hedge an overseas investment, such as a major acquisition, to lock in certain transaction economics. We have implemented these strategies for our foreign investments in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Latin America and continental Europe. IM UK has financed a portion of its capital needs through the issuance in British pounds sterling of the GBP Notes due 2025. Our Australian business has financed a portion of its capital needs through direct borrowings in Australian dollars under the AUD Term Loan. Similarly, Iron Mountain Canada Operations ULC has financed a portion of its capital needs through direct borrowings in Canadian dollars under the Credit Agreement and through the issuance of the CAD Notes due 2023. This creates a tax efficient natural currency hedge. 

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we designated a portion of the Euro Notes as a hedge of net investment of certain of our Euro denominated subsidiaries. As a result, we recorded $6.0 million ($6.0 million net of tax) of foreign exchange gains related to the "marking-to-market" of such debt to currency translation adjustments which is a component of Accumulated other comprehensive items, net included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet for the year ended December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, cumulative net gains of $20.3 million, net of tax are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive items, net associated with this net investment hedge.

In August 2019, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements to hedge the variability of exchange rate impacts between the United States dollar and the Euro. Under the terms of the cross-currency swap agreements we notionally exchanged approximately $110.0 million at an interest rate of 6.0% for approximately 99.1 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.65%. The cross-currency swap agreements, which expire in August 2023, are designated as a hedge of net investment against certain of our Euro denominated subsidiaries and require an exchange of the notional amounts at maturity. The cross-currency swaps are marked to market at each reporting period and any changes in fair value are recognized as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive items, net. Unrealized gains are recognized as assets while unrecognized losses are recognized as liabilities. At December 31, 2019, we had a derivative liability of $1.0 million, which was recorded as a component of Other within Other assets, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheet, which represents the fair value of the cross-currency swap agreements. We have recorded unrealized losses of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.

68
As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding forward contracts. At the maturity of any forward contract, we may enter into a new forward contract to hedge movements in the underlying currencies. At the time of settlement, we either pay or receive the net settlement amount from any forward contract and recognize this amount in Other expense (income), net in the accompanying statements of operations as a realized foreign exchange gain or loss. At the end of each month, we mark the outstanding forward contracts to market and record an unrealized foreign exchange gain or loss for the mark-to-market valuation. We have not designated any of the forward contracts we have entered as hedges. During the year ended December 31, 2019, cash payments included in cash from operating activities from continuing operations related to settlements associated with foreign currency forward contracts were $0.7 million. We recorded net losses in connection with forward contracts of $0.7 million related to the forward contracts in Other expense (income), net as of December 31, 2019 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. As of December 31, 2019, except as noted above, our currency exposures to intercompany balances are not hedged.

The impact of devaluation or depreciating currency on an entity depends on the residual effect on the local economy and the ability of an entity to raise prices and/or reduce expenses. Due to our constantly changing currency exposure and the potential substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange fluctuations on our business. The effect of a change in foreign currency exchange rates on our net investment in foreign subsidiaries is reflected in the "Accumulated Other Comprehensive Items, net" component of equity. A 10% depreciation in year-end 2019 functional currencies, relative to the United States dollar, would result in a reduction in our equity of approximately $257.8 million.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.