PART I

Item 1. Business

Introduction 

Invesco Ltd. (Invesco or the company) is an independent investment management firm dedicated to delivering an investment experience that helps people get more out of life. Our comprehensive range of active, passive and alternative investment capabilities has been constructed over many years to help clients achieve their investment objectives. We draw on this comprehensive range of capabilities to provide customized solutions designed to deliver key outcomes aligned to client needs. 

 With more than 8,000 employees and an on-the-ground presence in 26 countries, Invesco is well positioned to meet the needs of investors across the globe. We have specialized investment teams managing investments across a broad range of asset classes, investment styles and geographies. For decades, individuals and institutions have viewed our organization as a trusted partner for a broad range of investment needs. We have a significant presence in the retail and institutional markets within the investment management industry in North America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than 120 countries. As of December 31, 2019, the firm managed approximately $1.2 trillion in assets for investors around the world.

The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance, competitive pricing which we achieve through scaling our business, high-quality client service and effective distribution relationships, delivered across a diverse spectrum of investment management capabilities, distribution channels, geographic areas and market exposures. By achieving success in these areas, we seek to deliver better outcomes for clients and generate competitive investment results, positive net flows, increased assets under management (AUM) and associated revenues. We are affected significantly by market movements, which are beyond our control; however, we endeavor to mitigate the impact of market movements by maintaining broad diversification across asset classes, investment vehicles, client domiciles and geographies. We've also taken a number of steps to increase our efficiency and effectiveness, which enable us to provide a high level of value to clients. We measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to competitors' products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally, distributors, investment advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment performance (e.g., three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment products and manager recommendations to their clients, although shorter-term performance may also be an important consideration. Third-party ratings may also influence client investment decisions. We monitor quality of client service in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and feedback from investment consultants.

Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda. Our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IVZ.” We maintain a website at www.invesco.com. (Information contained on our website shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document).

Strategy 

The company focuses on four key long-term strategic objectives that are designed to sharpen our focus on client needs, further strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success:

4

Table of Contents 

•Achieve strong, long-term investment performance across distinct investment capabilities with clearly articulated investment philosophies and processes, aligned with client needs;

•Be instrumental to our clients' success by delivering our distinctive investment capabilities worldwide to meet their needs;

•Harness the power of our global platform by continuously improving execution effectiveness to enhance quality and productivity, and allocating our resources to the opportunities that will best benefit clients and our business; and

•Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency, accountability, diversity of thought, fact-based decision making and execution at all levels.

As an integrated global investment manager, we are keenly focused on meeting clients' needs and operating effectively and efficiently. We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment “investment management.”

We believe one of Invesco's greatest strengths is our separate, distinct investment teams in multiple markets across the globe. A key focus of our business is fostering a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to maintain well-performing investment capabilities. We believe the ability to leverage the capabilities of our investment teams to help clients across the globe achieve their investment objectives is a significant differentiator for our firm.

Environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) responsibility

ESG investment stewardship

Invesco’s differentiated approach to ESG investment stewardship is guided by our purpose - to deliver an investment experience that helps people get more out of life. We define ESG investment stewardship as the inclusion of ESG issues in investment analysis and decisions, as well as the use of our rights and positions of ownership to seek to influence the activities or behaviors of companies we invest in on behalf of our clients. 

Invesco has been implementing ESG investment strategies for over 30 years and today we deliver these strategies through certain equities, fixed income, multi-asset, alternatives, real estate, ETFs and bespoke investment solutions mandates. We aim for such mandates to continuously develop and deliver ESG investment solutions, which take into consideration ESG research, analysis, and risk assessments. We believe that material ESG risks inherent in or taken by a company in which we invest or seek to invest on behalf of our clients may adversely impact the fundamentals of that company and negatively impact achieving the investment objective of such mandates.

Our commitment to ESG investment stewardship is also evidenced, in part; by

•being a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (“PRI”);

•receiving an annual assessment of “A+” for strategy and governance from PRI for three consecutive years; and

•being a signatory to the UK Stewardship Code and Japan Stewardship.

In addition, Invesco believes the voting of proxies of companies in which we invest should be managed with the same care as all other elements of the investment process. Our proxy voting process is driven by investment professionals and focuses on maximizing long-term value for our clients, which, in part, is driven by appropriate ESG practices. Our ESG practices seek, where appropriate, to promote sustainable social and environmental targets, in line with investor organizations like PRI, the stewardship codes discussed above and initiatives like the Task Force on Climate Related Disclosure.

For more information regarding Invesco's ESG investment stewardship, please see our most recent Investment Stewardship and Proxy Voting Report on the company's website.

Corporate Stewardship

At Invesco, corporate stewardship efforts are motivated by the belief that doing what is right for the environment, our people and the communities in which we have a presence helps us deliver positive outcomes for our shareholders. We actively partner with non-profits, start-ups and other organizations to improve financial education, protect the environment, promote environmental sustainability, champion diversity and inclusion in our industry and our company, and support and collaborate with our local civic and community organizations to improve life in our cities.

Operating environmentally responsibly is fundamental to our corporate stewardship. Invesco seeks to help protect our natural environment by implementing and maintaining environmental management processes - for example, at Invesco offices we aim to reduce utility consumption and carbon emissions, promote energy efficiency and utilize appropriate waste management practices. Some of our recent achievements include:

5

Table of Contents 

•For 2018, Invesco offset 13,877 tons of carbon dioxide emissions through our partnership with ClimateCare, representing all of our air and rail travel purchased through our third party travel agency, which represents the majority of our air and rail travel for 2018. We anticipate conducting a similar offset program in respect to 2019;

•Invesco has ISO 14001 environmental management certification to effectively manage our environmental responsibilities on locations representing 80% of our employee population; and

•We are certified by Carbon Trust in the UK regarding multiple standards, including carbon, waste and water reduction.

2019 Developments

Throughout 2019, global markets were strong, despite periods of volatility throughout the year. Uncertainty in the economic environment and weaker industry production metrics at times in the year led the US Fed and many other central banks to aggressively lower interest rates to support global growth. Despite this uncertainty, the global economy grew at a modest pace. 

The most significant undertaking for Invesco in 2019 was the completion of our acquisition of OppenheimerFunds, and the integration of our two firms. We view the combination as a multi-year growth story that deepened our relationships with clients in the US, expanded the capabilities we can offer globally and further scaled our business for the benefit of clients and shareholders. The firm is highly focused on delivering the additional capabilities achieved through the combination to the institutional and ex-US markets, which we expect will help move our net flows in a positive direction. As a result of the acquisition, we are also better positioned to deliver strong outcomes for clients, since overall performance rankings for US mutual funds are consistently stronger for the combined firm than for either firm independently.

During 2019, we further expanded and enhanced our ability to help certain of our intermediary distributors engage with their clients and improve their investment experience through the expansion of our digital wealth platform. We launched several new products and further invested in key parts of our business that we believe will benefit our clients and enhance our competitiveness over the long term. 

We continued to invest in capabilities where we see strong client demand or future opportunities by making key acquisitions, hiring world-class talent, further upgrading our technology platform, launching new products and providing additional resources where necessary. We believe the ability to leverage the capabilities developed by our investment teams to meet client demand across the globe is a significant differentiator for our firm, and we will continue to bring the best of Invesco to different parts of our business where it makes sense for our clients. Some highlights of 2019 are as follows:

•Invesco won the Deal of the Year honor at the 26th annual Mutual Fund Industry Awards for its $5.6bn acquisition of MassMutual subsidiary OppenheimerFunds. The Deal Of the Year is awarded to the M&A deal that has most changed the landscape of the fund or retirement industry.

•Invesco QQQ celebrated 20 years of curating innovation. Since its inception in 1999, Invesco QQQ has grown to become one of the largest, most-traded and highest-performing ETFs in the history of the industry.

•Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), a world leading proponent of responsible investment, rated Invesco with an A+ rating for the 3rd consecutive year.

•Invesco ranked #5 in market penetration among ETF providers according to a 2019 Advisors Brandscape study.

•We further strengthened our market-leading solutions capability, leveraging one of the industry’s strongest, most experienced solutions teams to enable customized outcomes for clients;

•Invesco announced the launch of a new suite of defined maturity BulletShares® ETFs with exposure to municipal debt issued by state and local government.

•Invesco received the top prize of Asset Manager of the Year at AsianInvestor's Asset Management Awards 2019 in Hong Kong. We received the marquee award in recognition of our strong performance and AUM growth at a time when many fund houses were losing assets.

•Invesco China JV (IGW) won more than 50 awards in the asset management industry with a key highlight being China Securities Journal’s Annual Golden Bull Fund Company Award for 2019.

•Invesco High Yield Equity Dividend was named one of the Top 5 dividend funds in the U.S. for the past five years by Barron’s.

•Invesco Japanese Equity Advantage Fund managed by Tadao Minaguchi was awarded the best Japan fund by Investment Week UK at their 2019 Funds Manager of the Year awards. 

•Amalgamated Bank entered into an agreement with Invesco to become a sub-adviser for their investment management business. As a sub-adviser, Invesco will provide investment management services for Amalgamated Bank across asset classes.

•Jemstep, Invesco's digital advisor, acquired a key client, Infinex Financial Group, which has a network of greater than 650 advisors and 220 banks and credit unions.

6

Table of Contents 

•As announced in January 2020, Invesco's Jemstep digital wealth platform has been chosen to power Citi's investment service, Citi Wealth Builder, because of its goal-based client experience and the ability to configure its platform to meet Citi's requirements. 

•Invesco launched a Blockchain ETF on the London Stock Exchange, providing an innovative way for investors to

participate in this technology.

•Invesco launched Gilt ETFs, giving investors access to UK government bonds across the full maturity spectrum.

•Invesco's North America Marketing team and the Global Thought Leadership team won in a number of categories at the recent Gramercy Institution Financial Content Marketing Awards. These awards recognize excellence in financial marketing.

•Invesco's Active Multi-Sector Credit Fund and Europlus Fund won the Lipper Fund Awards from Revinitiv.

Taken together, this work further expanded the broad range of capabilities Invesco uses to create solutions that deliver the outcomes clients are seeking, all wrapped in a robust, value-added client experience. These initiatives also further strengthened the firm’s effectiveness and efficiency, providing greater economies of scale that we believe will enable us to provide a higher level of value to clients and further improve our competitive position.

Industry Trends 

 Trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well diversified with broad capabilities globally and across asset classes:

•Clients are demanding more from investment managers. While investment performance remains paramount, competitive pricing, client engagement and value-added services (including portfolio analytics and providing consultative solutions) increasingly differentiate managers. Invesco is working to enhance the client's user experience through digital marketing (web, mobile, social) and improved service. The building out of Invesco Solutions to respond to this trend is among the firm's top priorities.

•Investors are continuing to shift to alternative, passive, and smart beta strategies. As a consequence, Invesco and the industry are seeing client demand for core equities and fixed income portfolios decline as a share of global flows. Invesco is the #2 provider of smart beta AUM in the US and has 72 ETFs with greater than $500 million in assets. Invesco also has a strong lineup of alternative and multi-asset strategies supported by ongoing product development.

•We are seeing increased pressure on pricing within the asset management industry, arising from increased use of low fee passive products and further concentration within our channel distribution partners (which increases their ability to negotiate pricing) and additional regulatory scrutiny on industry fees.

•Distribution partners are becoming more selective and are moving towards developing fewer relationships and partners, reducing the number of investment managers with whom they work.

•Regulatory activity remains at increased levels and is influencing competitive dynamics. Increased regulatory scrutiny of managers has focused on many areas including transparency/unbundling of fees, inducements, conflicts of interest, capital, liquidity, solvency, leverage, operational risk management, controls and compensation. Invesco continues to work proactively with regulators around the world. Efforts to further modernize and strengthen our global platform will enhance our ability to compete effectively across markets while complying with the variety of applicable regulatory regimes. 

•Although the developed markets in the U.S. and Europe are currently the two largest markets for financial assets by a wide margin, other key emerging markets in the world, such as China and India, are positioned for future growth over the long term despite near-term headwinds. As these population-heavy markets mature, we believe investment managers that are truly global will be in the best position to capture this growth. Additionally, population age differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and retirement savings schemes also differ substantially among countries. We believe firms such as Invesco, with diversified investment capabilities and product types, are best positioned to meet clients' needs in this global competitive landscape. Invesco has a meaningful market presence in many of the world's most attractive regions, including North America, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. We believe our strong and growing presence in established and emerging markets provides significant long-term growth potential for our business. 

•Technology advances are impacting core elements of the investment management industry which lags other industries in its use of technology. Clients increasingly seek to interact digitally with their investment portfolios. This is leading to established managers investing in and/or acquiring "robo" and other technology platforms. As the investment management business becomes more complex, automation will become increasingly important to serve clients effectively and efficiently. Invesco is leveraging technology across its business and exploring opportunities to work with third-party technology firms to enhance our clients' investment experience. Over the past few years, we have made strategic acquisitions to strengthen our overall digital wealth platform, including Jemstep and Intelliflo, our advisor-focused digital platforms. These acquisitions and others have strengthened our ability to offer competitive digital wealth capabilities and position us ahead of the evolving client needs.

7

Table of Contents 

As a result of the trends discussed above, clients are seeking to work with a smaller number of asset managers who can meet a comprehensive set of needs. They want money managers who can provide a robust set of capabilities and create investment solutions that deliver key outcomes aligned to their investment objectives. They also want greater value for their money, which means competitive pricing, investor education, thought leadership, digital platforms and other value added services that create an enhanced client experience. These dynamics are driving fundamental changes within our industry and that we believe will drive increasing consolidation. We believe the steps we have taken over the past decade and throughout 2019 strengthened our ability to meet client needs and will help ensure Invesco is well-positioned to compete and win within our industry.

Other External Factors Impacting Invesco 

Invesco has a larger global presence in key markets than most of our peers. As one of the leading investment managers in the UK and Europe, we were more impacted by continuing uncertainties surrounding Brexit. Additionally, our strong position in Asia Pacific meant that Invesco was more affected than others by market uncertainties over the trade issues between China and the U.S. 

Although negotiations between the UK and EU resulted in the UK leaving the EU under the terms of the Withdrawal Agreement on January 31, 2020, the longer term relationship between the UK and the EU is still uncertain. This may affect the levels and composition of our AUM and also negatively influence investor sentiment, which could result in reduced or negative flows. In addition, because the UK Pound Sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the UK Pound Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar could negatively impact our reported financial results.

Invesco is a global business and has been committed for many years to meeting clients’ needs across Europe in both EU and non-EU countries. Invesco has local teams of experts focused on servicing local clients and fund ranges in different countries to meet a variety of local, country and regional client needs. We currently have a presence in 12 member states across the EU (excluding the UK), employing over 440 staff; our staff will be able to continue to reside and work across the relevant regions. The change in the UK's status from an EU to a non-EU country will not change Invesco’s focus or commitment to serve its clients across Europe. We have plans in place which will enable us to respond to a variety of different potential scenarios and we believe we are fully prepared to continue to operate and deliver for our clients with minimal disruption. 

The manner in which interest rates are calculated could also impact our client portfolios. In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the LIBOR benchmark after 2021. This announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021, and it appears likely that LIBOR will be phased out or the methodology for determining LIBOR will be modified by 2021. Changes in the method pursuant to which LIBOR is determined or the discontinuance of LIBOR may adversely affect the amount of interest payable or interest receivable on certain portfolio investments. These changes may also impact the market liquidity and market value of these portfolio investments. Invesco is finalizing its global assessment of exposure in relation to funds utilizing LIBOR based instruments and benchmarks and is prioritizing the mitigation of risks associated with the forecast changes to financial instruments and performance benchmarks referencing existing LIBOR rates, and concurrently any impact on Invesco portfolios and investment strategies.

The spread of a new strain of the coronavirus may also impact Invesco, our operations and our employees. The virus has spread internationally and global stock markets have reacted negatively and with increased volatility. The market reaction may deepen further if the virus continues to spread, but if and when the coronavirus is successfully contained, the situation should normalize and financial markets will likely stabilize. Should the coronavirus spread without containment, however, the overall impact on the stock market may become more pronounced and may result in investors withdrawing from or delaying further investments in equity markets. Invesco's significant presence in Asia Pacific may make Invesco more vulnerable to the uncertainties surrounding the spread of the coronavirus and the corresponding economic disruption in this region. 

Investment Management Capabilities 

We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment teams and their well-defined investment disciplines and risk management approach provide us with a robust competitive advantage. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include money market, balanced, equity, fixed income and alternatives. 

8

Table of Contents 

The following sets forth our managed investment objectives by asset class:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Distribution Channels

Retail AUM originates from clients investing into funds available to the public in the form of shares or units. Institutional AUM originates from entities such as individual corporate clients, insurance companies, endowments, foundations, government authorities, universities or charities. AUM disclosure by distribution channel represents consolidated AUM distributed by type of sales team (the company's internal distribution channels). AUM amounts disclosed as retail channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's retail sales team; whereas AUM amounts disclosed as institutional channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's institutional sales team.

The company operates as an integrated global investment manager, presenting itself as a single firm to clients around the world. Dedicated sales forces deliver our investment strategies through a variety of vehicles that meet the needs of retail and institutional clients. Note that not all products sold in the disclosed retail distribution channel are in "retail" vehicles, and not all products sold in the disclosed institutional channel are in "institutional" vehicles, as described in the table below. This aggregation, however, is viewed as a proxy for presenting AUM in the retail and institutional markets in which we operate.

9

Table of Contents 

The following lists our primary investment vehicles by distribution channel:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Retail

Retail AUM were $878.2 billion at December 31, 2019. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes. Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in North America, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in Europe and Asia. 

The Americas, UK and EMEA ex-UK retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their respective markets. As of December 31, 2019, Invesco holds a leading position amongst retail fund providers in the UK; Invesco's U.S. retail business, including our ETF franchise, is a top 10 asset manager in the U.S. by long-term assets and Invesco in EMEA ex-UK was among the largest non-proprietary investment managers in the retail channel. Invesco Great Wall was one of the largest Sino-foreign managers of equity products in China, with total AUM of approximately $41.3 billion as of December 31, 2019. We provide our retail clients with one of the industry's most robust and comprehensive product lines.

Institutional

Institutional AUM were $348.0 billion in AUM as of December 31, 2019. We offer a broad suite of domestic and global strategies, including traditional and quantitative equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real estate, financial structures and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public entities, corporations, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments, foundations, pension funds, financial institutions and sovereign wealth funds. Invesco's institutional money market funds serve some of the largest financial institutions, government entities and corporations in the world.

AUM Diversification

One of Invesco's greatest competitive strengths is the diversification in its AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class. Our distribution network has attracted assets of 72% retail and 28% institutional as of December 31, 2019. By client domicile, 28% of client AUM are outside the U.S., and we serve clients in more than 120 countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, the fourth table below illustrates the split of our AUM as Passive and Active. Passive AUM include index-based ETFs, unit investment trusts (UITs), non-management fee earning AUM and other passive mandates. Active AUM is total AUM less Passive AUM. See the company's disclosures regarding the changes in AUM years ended December 31, 2019 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Assets Under Management” section for additional information regarding the changes in AUM. 

10

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

Table of Contents 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2019, the company had 8,821 employees across the globe (December 31, 2018: 7,459). Increases in 2019 relate primarily to the acquisition of OppenheimerFunds. None of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. 

Competition 

The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation including investment performance, the level of fees, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships and quality of service. We compete with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. We believe that the quality and diversity of our investment capabilities, product types and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the investment management business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both manage and distribute and/or service those products. Lastly, we believe continued execution against our strategic objectives will further strengthen our long-term competitive position.

Management Contracts

We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with funds and other clients. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as certain ETFs. Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days' notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional clients typically may elect to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management with very short notice periods.

Risk Management

Invesco is committed to continually strengthening and refining our risk management approach and process. We believe a key factor in our ability to manage through all market cycles is our integrated approach to risk management. Risk management is embedded in our daily operating activities, our day-to-day decision making as well as our strategic planning process. Our risk management framework provides the basis for consistent and meaningful risk dialogue up, down and across the company. Broadly, our approach includes two governance structures: (i) our Global Performance and Risk Committee assesses core investment risks; and (ii) our Corporate Risk Management Committee assesses strategic, operational and all other business risks. A network of business unit, geographic and specific risk management committees, under the auspices of the Corporate Risk Management Committee, maintains an ongoing risk assessment, management and monitoring process that provides a bottom-up perspective on the specific risks existing and emerging in the various domains of our business.

Available Information 

The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.invesco.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

12

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors