PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

OVERVIEW 

 We are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery, and logistics companies in North America. J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental United States, Canada, and Mexico. Unless otherwise indicated by the context, “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company”, and “JBHT” refer to J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We were incorporated in Arkansas on August 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. Our service offerings include transportation of full-truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. We have arrangements with most of the major North American rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. We also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems, and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers’ requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. These arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment, and freight network design. Our local and home delivery services typically are provided through a network of cross-dock service centers throughout the continental United States. We also provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services with a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers. In addition to full-load, dry-van operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (LTL), and other specialized equipment, drivers, and services. Our customers, who include many Fortune 500 companies, have extremely diverse businesses. Many of them are served by J.B. Hunt 360○®, an online platform that offers shippers and carriers greater access, visibility and transparency of the supply chain. 

 2    

We believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. These segments include Intermodal (JBI), Dedicated Contract Services® (DCS), Integrated Capacity Solutions™ (ICS), and Truckload (JBT). Our business usually involves slightly higher freight volumes in August through early November. Meanwhile, DCS is subject to less seasonal variation than our other segments. 

Additional general information about us is available at jbhunt.com. We make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, Board committee charters, and other corporate policies. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. 

Our Mission and Strategy 

We forge long-term relationships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategies. Working in concert, we strive to drive out excess cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprises. Our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. We believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders. 

We continually analyze opportunities for additional capital investment and where management’s resources should be focused to provide more benefits to our customers. These actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. 

Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. Our Company’s mission, to create the most efficient transportation network in North America, focuses on delivering both for our customers across all of our business segments. We seek to accomplish this by maintaining a modern fleet to maximize fuel efficiency, converting loads from truck to rail with our intermodal service, and introducing technologies to optimize freight flows in the supply chain by eliminating waste. Additionally, we continue to test and explore the usage of alternative fuel vehicles. Efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions are ongoing. We are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay® Transport Partner, and proud to have been awarded the EPA’s SmartWay® Excellence Award each of the last twelve years. 

As always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. 

operating segments 

Segment information is also included in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

JBI Segment 

The transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements with most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada, and Mexico. Our JBI segment began operations in 1989, forming a unique partnership with what is now the BNSF Railway Company (BNSF); this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. JBI draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. The origin and destination pickup and delivery services (drayage) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while third-party dray carriers are used where economical. By performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. 

 3    

JBI operates 96,743 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. The fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. We own and maintain our own chassis fleet, consisting of 82,731 units. The containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together, which we feel creates an operational competitive advantage. JBI also manages a fleet of 4,989 company-owned tractors, 570 independent contractor trucks, and 6,376 company drivers. At December 31, 2019, the total JBI employee count was 7,281. Revenue for the JBI segment in 2019 was $4.74 billion. 

DCS Segment 

DCS focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in replenishment, specialized equipment, and final-mile delivery services. We specialize in the design, development, and execution of supply-chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. Our final-mile delivery services are supported with a network of approximately 120 cross-dock and other delivery system network locations nationwide, with 98% of the continental U.S. population living within 150 miles of a network location. Contracts with our customers are long-term, ranging from three to 10 years, with the average being approximately five years. Pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but is customized based on invested capital and duration. 

At December 31, 2019, this segment operated 10,542 company-owned trucks, 505 customer-owned trucks, and 40 independent contractor trucks. DCS also operates 20,860 owned pieces of trailing equipment and 7,258 customer-owned trailers. The DCS segment employed 15,019 people, including 12,181 drivers, at December 31, 2019. DCS revenue for 2019 was $2.69 billion. 

ICS Segment 

ICS provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. By leveraging the J.B. Hunt brand, systems, and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited, and LTL, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. Furthermore, we offer an online multimodal marketplace via J.B. Hunt 360 that matches the right load with the right carrier and the best mode. ICS also provides single-source logistics management for customers desiring to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ICS operates 37 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. 

At December 31, 2019, the ICS segment employed 1,213 people, with a carrier base of approximately 84,400. ICS revenue for 2019 was $1.35 billion. 

JBT Segment 

The service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. We typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. We use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers. 

At December 31, 2019, the JBT segment operated 845 company-owned tractors and employed 1,102 people, 868 of whom were drivers. At December 31, 2019, we had 986 independent contractors operating in the JBT segment. JBT revenue for 2019 was $389 million. 

Marketing and Operations 

We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, agricultural products, electronics, and chemicals. Our customer base includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies. We provide many transportation services that meet the supply-chain logistics needs of shippers. 

 4    

We generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. We use a specific sales force in DCS due to the length, complexity, and specialization of the sales cycle. In addition to our sales teams, J.B. Hunt 360 offers instant access to a wide array of technology-driven solutions for customers and carriers. Through the platform, businesses of all sizes can quote and book shipments, view analytics, and gain visibility into freight movement. In accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services, and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. 

People 

We believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. As of December 31, 2019, we had 29,056 employees, which consisted of 19,425 company drivers, 8,292 office personnel, 1,137 maintenance technicians, and 202 delivery and material assistants. We also had arrangements with approximately 1,596 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. None of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

Revenue Equipment 

Our JBI segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. The composition of our DCS trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks, and dump trailers. We primarily utilize third-party carriers’ tractor and trailing equipment for our ICS segment. Our JBT segment operates primarily 53-foot dry-van trailers. 

As of December 31, 2019, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 16,376 units. In addition, we had 1,596 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. We operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT fleets. Due to our customers’ preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is extremely diversified. We believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers, and lowers maintenance expense. At December 31, 2019, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.3 years, while our containers averaged 7.0 years of age and our trailers averaged 6.5 years. We perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities. 

Competition and the Industry 

The freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. Our JBI segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies; other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service; and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. The diversified nature of the services provided by our DCS segment attracts competition from customers’ private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. Our ICS segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. The full-load freight competition of our JBT segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. 

We compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services. 

 5    

Regulation 

Our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. The DOT periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the DOT. Our operations into and out of Canada and Mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. We are also subject to a variety of requirements of national, state, and local governments, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. 

We continue to monitor the actions of the FMCSA and other regulatory agencies, and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS