Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk

Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in factors such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates is limited. Management monitors risk exposures on an ongoing basis and establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. 

MASTERCARD 2019 FORM 10-K 53

PART II

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Foreign currency and interest rate exposures are managed through our risk management activities, which are discussed further in Note 23 (Derivative and Hedging Instruments) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. 

Foreign Exchange Risk

We enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage transactional currency exposure associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements occurring in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity. We may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value of assets and liabilities due to foreign exchange fluctuations. The objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to transaction gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional and reporting currencies, principally the U.S. dollar and euro. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $144 million and $113 million on our foreign exchange derivative contracts outstanding at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to the hedging program. 

We are also subject to foreign exchange risk as part of our daily settlement activities. To manage this risk, we enter into foreign exchange contracts based upon anticipated receipts and disbursements for the respective currency position. This risk is typically limited to a few days between the timing of when a payment transaction takes place and the subsequent settlement with our customers. 

Interest Rate Risk

During the fourth quarter of 2019, we entered into interest rate derivative contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges in order to manage our exposure to interest rate changes on future forecasted debt issuances. At December 31, 2019, the total notional amount of these contracts was $1 billion. The maximum length of time over which we have hedged our exposure to the variability in future cash flows is 30 years. The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $168 million on our interest rate derivative contracts outstanding at December 31, 2019. There were no similar contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2018. 

In addition, our available-for-sale debt investments include fixed and variable rate securities that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Our policy is to invest in high quality securities, while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have a material impact on our investments at December 31, 2019 and 2018. 

54 MASTERCARD 2019 FORM 10-K

PART II

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA