ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

The Company is involved in the acquisition, ownership, development, redevelopment, management and leasing of regional and community/power shopping centers located throughout the United States. The Company is the sole general partner of, and owns a majority of the ownership interests in, The Macerich Partnership, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"). As of December 31, 2019, the Operating Partnership owned or had an ownership interest in 47 regional shopping centers and five community/power shopping centers. These 52 regional and community/power shopping centers (which include any related office space) consist of approximately 51 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) and are referred to herein as the “Centers”. The Centers consist of consolidated Centers (“Consolidated Centers”) and unconsolidated joint venture Centers (“Unconsolidated Joint Venture Centers”), as set forth in “Item 2. Properties,” unless the context otherwise requires.

3

The Company is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT") and conducts all of its operations through the Operating Partnership and the Company's management companies, Macerich Property Management Company, LLC, a single member Delaware limited liability company, Macerich Management Company, a California corporation, Macerich Arizona Partners LLC, a single member Arizona limited liability company, Macerich Arizona Management LLC, a single member Delaware limited liability company, Macerich Partners of Colorado LLC, a single member Colorado limited liability company, MACW Mall Management, Inc., a New York corporation, and MACW Property Management, LLC, a single member New York limited liability company. All seven of the management companies are owned by the Company and are collectively referred to herein as the "Management Companies."

The Company was organized as a Maryland corporation in September 1993. All references to the Company in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include the Company, those entities owned or controlled by the Company and predecessors of the Company, unless the context indicates otherwise.

Financial information regarding the Company for each of the last three fiscal years is contained in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule."

Recent Developments

Financing Activity:

On January 10, 2019, the Company replaced the existing loan on Fashion Outlets of Chicago with a new $300.0 million loan that bears interest at an effective rate of 4.61% and matures on February 1, 2031. The Company used the net proceeds to pay down its line of credit and for general corporate purposes.

On February 22, 2019, the Company’s joint venture in The Shops at Atlas Park entered into an agreement to increase the total borrowing capacity of the existing loan on the property from $57.8 million to $80.0 million, and to extend the maturity date to October 28, 2021, including extension options. Concurrent with the loan modification, the joint venture borrowed an additional $18.4 million. The Company used its $9.2 million share of the additional proceeds to pay down its line of credit and for general corporate purposes. 

On June 3, 2019, the Company’s joint venture in SanTan Village Regional Center replaced the existing loan on the property with a new $220.0 million loan that bears interest at an effective rate of 4.34% and matures on July 1, 2029. The Company used its share of the additional proceeds to pay down its line of credit and for general corporate purposes. 

On June 27, 2019, the Company replaced the existing loan on Chandler Fashion Center with a new $256.0 million loan that bears interest at an effective rate of 4.18% and matures on July 5, 2024. The Company used its share of the additional proceeds to pay down its line of credit and for general corporate purposes. 

On July 25, 2019, the Company's joint venture in Fashion District Philadelphia amended the existing term loan on the joint venture to allow for additional borrowings up to $100.0 million at LIBOR plus 2.00%. Concurrent with the amendment, the joint venture borrowed an additional $26.0 million. On August 16, 2019, the joint venture borrowed an additional $25.0 million. The Company used its share of the additional proceeds to pay down its line of credit and for general corporate purposes.

On September 12, 2019, the Company’s joint venture in Tysons Tower placed a new $190.0 million loan on the property that bears interest at an effective rate of 3.38% and matures on November 11, 2029. The Company used its share of the proceeds to pay down its line of credit and for general corporate purposes. 

On October 17, 2019, the Company’s joint venture in West Acres placed a construction loan on the property that allows for borrowing of up to $6.5 million, bears interest at an effective rate of 3.72% and matures on October 10, 2029. The joint venture intends to use the proceeds from the loan to fund the expansion of the property.

On December 3, 2019, the Company replaced the existing loan on Kings Plaza Shopping Center with a new $540.0 million loan that bears interest at an effective rate of 3.71% and matures on January 1, 2030. The Company used the additional proceeds to pay down its line of credit and for general corporate purposes. 

On December 18, 2019, the Company’s joint venture in One Westside placed a $414.6 million construction loan on the redevelopment project (See "Redevelopment and Development Activities"). The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.70%, which can be reduced to LIBOR plus 1.50% upon the completion of certain conditions and matures on December 18, 2024. The joint venture intends to use the loan proceeds to fund the completion of the project. 

4

Redevelopment and Development Activity:

On September 19, 2019, the Company's joint venture with Pennsylvania REIT opened the first phase of the redevelopment of Fashion District Philadelphia, an 899,000 square foot regional shopping center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The project will have additional tenant openings throughout 2020 and early 2021. The total cost of the project is estimated to be between $400.0 million and $420.0 million, with $200.0 million to $210.0 million estimated to be the Company's pro rata share. The Company has funded $190.9 million of the total $381.8 million incurred by the joint venture as of December 31, 2019.

The Company's joint venture in Scottsdale Fashion Square completed the redevelopment of a former Barney's store and an 80,000 square foot exterior expansion in the fourth quarter of 2019. The Company has funded $40.0 million of the total $80.0 million incurred by the joint venture as of December 31, 2019.

The Company's joint venture with Hudson Pacific Properties is redeveloping One Westside into 584,000 square feet of creative office space and 96,000 square feet of dining and entertainment space. The entire creative office space has been leased to Google and is expected to be completed in 2022. The total cost of the project is estimated to be between $500.0 million and $550.0 million, with $125.0 million to $137.5 million estimated to be the Company's pro rata share. The Company has funded $50.4 million of the total $201.5 million incurred by the joint venture as of December 31, 2019. The joint venture expects to fund the remaining costs of the development with its new $414.6 million construction loan (See "Financing Activities"). 

The Company has a 50/50 joint venture with Simon Property Group to develop Los Angeles Premium Outlets, a premium outlet center in Carson, California that is planned to open with approximately 400,000 square feet, followed by an additional 165,000 square feet in the second phase. The Company has funded $35.9 million of the total $71.7 million incurred by the joint venture as of December 31, 2019.

In connection with the closures and lease rejections of several Sears stores owned or partially owned by the Company, the Company anticipates spending between $130.0 million to $160.0 million at the Company’s pro rata share to redevelop the Sears stores. The anticipated openings of such redevelopments are expected to occur over several years. The estimated range of redevelopment costs could increase if the Company or its joint venture decides to expand the scope of the redevelopments. The Company has funded $22.4 million at its pro rata share as of December 31, 2019. 

Other Transactions and Events: 

On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 842, "Leases", under the modified retrospective method. The new standard amended the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e. lessees and lessors). In connection with the adoption of the new lease standard, the Company elected to use the transition packages of practical expedients for implementation provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), which included (i) relief from re-assessing whether an expired or existing contract meets the definition of a lease, (ii) relief from re-assessing the classification of expired or existing leases at the adoption date, (iii) allowing previously capitalized initial direct leasing costs to continue to be amortized, and (iv) application of the standard as of the adoption date rather than to all periods presented. 

Upon adoption of the new standard, the Company has presented all revenues associated with leases as leasing revenue on its consolidated statements of operations. The new standard requires the Company to reduce leasing revenue for credit losses associated with lease receivables. In addition, straight-line rent receivables are written off when the Company believes there is reasonable uncertainty regarding a tenant's ability to complete the term of the lease. The new standard also requires that lessors expense, on an as-incurred basis, certain initial direct costs that are not incremental in negotiating a lease. Initial direct costs include the salaries and related costs for employees directly working on leasing activities. Prior to January 1, 2019, these costs were capitalizable and therefore the new lease standard resulted in certain of these costs being expensed as incurred. 

The Shopping Center Industry

General:

There are several types of retail shopping centers, which are differentiated primarily based on size and marketing strategy. Regional shopping centers generally contain in excess of 400,000 square feet of GLA and are typically anchored by two or more department or large retail stores ("Anchors") and are referred to as "Regional Shopping Centers" or "Malls." Regional Shopping Centers also typically contain numerous diversified retail stores ("Mall Stores"), most of which are national or regional retailers typically located along corridors connecting the Anchors. "Strip centers", "urban villages" or "specialty centers" ("Community/Power Shopping Centers") are retail shopping centers that are designed to attract local or neighborhood customers and are typically anchored by one or more supermarkets, discount department stores and/or drug stores. Community/Power Shopping Centers typically contain 100,000 to 400,000 square feet of GLA. Outlet Centers generally contain a wide variety of designer and manufacturer stores, often located in an open-air center, and typically range in size from 200,000 to 850,000 square feet of GLA ("Outlet Centers"). In addition, freestanding retail stores are located along the perimeter of the 

5

shopping centers ("Freestanding Stores"). Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores over 10,000 square feet of GLA are also referred to as "Big Box." Anchors, Mall Stores, Freestanding Stores and other tenants typically contribute funds for the maintenance of the common areas, property taxes, insurance, advertising and other expenditures related to the operation of the shopping center.

Regional Shopping Centers:

A Regional Shopping Center draws from its trade area by offering a variety of fashion merchandise, hard goods and services and entertainment, often in an enclosed, climate controlled environment with convenient parking. Regional Shopping Centers provide an array of retail shops and entertainment facilities and often serve as the town center and a gathering place for community, charity and promotional events.

Regional Shopping Centers have generally provided owners with relatively stable income despite the cyclical nature of the retail business. This stability is due both to the diversity of tenants and to the typical dominance of Regional Shopping Centers in their trade areas.

Regional Shopping Centers have different strategies with regard to price, merchandise offered and tenant mix, and are generally tailored to meet the needs of their trade areas. Anchors are located along common areas in a configuration designed to maximize consumer traffic for the benefit of the Mall Stores. Mall GLA, which generally refers to GLA contiguous to the Anchors for tenants other than Anchors, is leased to a wide variety of smaller retailers. Mall Stores typically account for the majority of the revenues of a Regional Shopping Center.

Business of the Company

Strategy:

The Company has a long-term four-pronged business strategy that focuses on the acquisition, leasing and management, redevelopment and development of Regional Shopping Centers.

Acquisitions. The Company principally focuses on well-located, quality Regional Shopping Centers that can be dominant in their trade area and have strong revenue enhancement potential. In addition, the Company pursues other opportunistic acquisitions of property that include retail and will complement the Company's portfolio such as Outlet Centers. The Company subsequently seeks to improve operating performance and returns from these properties through leasing, management and redevelopment. Since its initial public offering, the Company has acquired interests in shopping centers nationwide. The Company believes that it is geographically well positioned to cultivate and maintain ongoing relationships with potential sellers and financial institutions and to act quickly when acquisition opportunities arise.

Leasing and Management. The Company believes that the shopping center business requires specialized skills across a broad array of disciplines for effective and profitable operations. For this reason, the Company has developed a fully integrated real estate organization with in-house acquisition, accounting, development, finance, information technology, leasing, legal, marketing, property management and redevelopment expertise. In addition, the Company emphasizes a philosophy of decentralized property management, leasing and marketing performed by on-site professionals. The Company believes that this strategy results in the optimal operation, tenant mix and drawing power of each Center, as well as the ability to quickly respond to changing competitive conditions of the Center's trade area.

The Company believes that on-site property managers can most effectively operate the Centers. Each Center's property manager is responsible for overseeing the operations, marketing, maintenance and security functions at the Center. Property managers focus special attention on controlling operating costs, a key element in the profitability of the Centers, and seek to develop strong relationships with, and be responsive to, the needs of retailers.

The Company generally utilizes regionally located leasing managers to better understand the market and the community in which a Center is located. The Company continually assesses and fine tunes each Center's tenant mix, identifies and replaces underperforming tenants and seeks to optimize existing tenant sizes and configurations.

On a selective basis, the Company provides property management and leasing services for third parties. The Company currently manages one regional shopping center and two community centers for third party owners on a fee basis.

6

Redevelopment. One of the major components of the Company's growth strategy is its ability to redevelop acquired properties. On a selective basis, the Company's business strategy may include mixed-use densification to maximize space at the Company’s Regional Shopping Centers, including by developing available land at the Regional Shopping Centers or by demolishing underperforming department store boxes and redeveloping the land. For this reason, the Company has built a staff of redevelopment professionals who have primary responsibility for identifying redevelopment opportunities that they believe will result in enhanced long-term financial returns and market position for the Centers. The redevelopment professionals oversee the design and construction of the projects in addition to obtaining required governmental approvals (See "Redevelopment and Development Activity" in Recent Developments).

Development. The Company pursues ground-up development projects on a selective basis. The Company has supplemented its strong acquisition, operations and redevelopment skills with its ground-up development expertise to further increase growth opportunities (See "Redevelopment and Development Activity" in Recent Developments).

The Centers:

As of December 31, 2019, the Centers primarily included 47 Regional Shopping Centers and five Community/Power Shopping Centers totaling approximately 51 million square feet of GLA. These 52 Centers average approximately 920,000 square feet of GLA and range in size from 3.5 million square feet of GLA at Tysons Corner Center to 184,000 square feet of GLA at Boulevard Shops. As of December 31, 2019, the Centers primarily included 176 Anchors totaling approximately 23.7 million square feet of GLA and approximately 5,000 Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores totaling approximately 24.5 million square feet of GLA.

Competition:

Numerous owners, developers and managers of malls, shopping centers and other retail-oriented real estate compete with the Company for the acquisition of properties and in attracting tenants or Anchors to occupy space. There are a number of other publicly traded mall companies and several large private mall companies in the United States, any of which under certain circumstances could compete against the Company for an Anchor or a tenant. In addition, these companies, as well as other REITs, private real estate companies or investors compete with the Company in terms of property acquisitions. This results in competition both for the acquisition of properties or centers and for tenants or Anchors to occupy space. Competition for property acquisitions may result in increased purchase prices and may adversely affect the Company's ability to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. The existence of competing shopping centers could have a material adverse impact on the Company's ability to lease space and on the level of rents that can be achieved. There is also increasing competition from other retail formats and technologies, such as lifestyle centers, power centers, outlet centers, Internet shopping, home shopping networks, catalogs, telemarketing and discount shopping clubs that could adversely affect the Company's revenues.

In making leasing decisions, the Company believes that retailers consider the following material factors relating to a center: quality, design and location, including consumer demographics; rental rates; type and quality of Anchors and retailers at the center; and management and operational experience and strategy of the center. The Company believes it is able to compete effectively for retail tenants in its local markets based on these criteria in light of the overall size, quality and diversity of its Centers.

7

Major Tenants:

For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Centers derived approximately 73% of their total rents from Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores under 10,000 square feet and 27% of their total rents from Big Box and Anchor tenants. Total rents as set forth in "Item 1. Business" include minimum rents and percentage rents.

The following retailers (including their subsidiaries) represent the 10 largest tenants in the Centers based upon total rents in place as of December 31, 2019: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(1)Forever 21, Inc. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in September 2019. The total rents used to compute the percentage of rent paid by Forever 21, Inc. in the table above are the anticipated rents to be paid to the Company in 2020 based on a negotiated settlement currently in process through the bankruptcy court.

Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores:

Mall Store and Freestanding Store leases generally provide for tenants to pay rent comprised of a base (or "minimum") rent and a percentage rent based on sales. In some cases, tenants pay only minimum rent, and in other cases, tenants pay only percentage rent. The Company generally enters into leases for Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores that also require tenants to pay a stated amount for operating expenses, generally excluding property taxes, regardless of the expenses the Company actually incurs at any Center. However, certain leases for Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores contain provisions that only require tenants to pay their pro rata share of maintenance of the common areas, property taxes, insurance, advertising and other expenditures related to the operations of the Center.

Tenant space of 10,000 square feet and under in the Company's portfolio at December 31, 2019 comprises approximately 65% of all Mall Store and Freestanding Store space. The Company uses tenant spaces of 10,000 square feet and under for comparing rental rate activity because this space is more consistent in terms of shape and configuration and, as such, the Company is able to provide a meaningful comparison of rental rate activity for this space. Mall Store and Freestanding Store space greater than 10,000 square feet is inconsistent in size and configuration throughout the Company's portfolio and as a result does not lend itself to a meaningful comparison of rental rate activity with the Company's other space. Much of the non-Anchor space over 10,000 square feet is not physically connected to the mall, does not share the same common area amenities and does not benefit from the foot traffic in the mall. As a result, space greater than 10,000 square feet has a unique rent structure that is inconsistent with mall space under 10,000 square feet.

8

The following tables set forth the average base rent per square foot for the Centers, as of December 31 for each of the past five years: 

Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores under 10,000 square feet: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Big Box and Anchors: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(1)Average base rent per square foot is based on spaces occupied as of December 31 for each of the Centers and gives effect to the terms of each lease in effect, as of such date, including any concessions, abatements and other adjustments or allowances that have been granted to the tenants. 

(2)Centers under development and redevelopment are excluded from average base rents. As a result, the leases for Fashion District Philadelphia, Paradise Valley Mall and One Westside are excluded for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016 and 2015. The leases for Broadway Plaza are excluded for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. The leases for Fashion Outlets of Niagara Falls USA and SouthPark Mall are excluded for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

9

The leases for Cascade Mall and Northgate Mall, which were sold on January 18, 2017, are excluded for the year ended December 31, 2016. Flagstaff Mall was conveyed to the mortgage lender by a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure on July 15, 2016 and is excluded for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

(3)The average base rent per square foot on leases executed during the year represents the actual rent paid on a per square foot basis during the first twelve months of the lease.

(4)The average base rent per square foot on leases expiring during the year represents the actual rent to be paid on a per square foot basis during the final twelve months of the lease.

Cost of Occupancy:

A major factor contributing to tenant profitability is cost of occupancy, which consists of tenant occupancy costs charged by the Company. Tenant expenses included in this calculation are minimum rents, percentage rents and recoverable expenditures, which consist primarily of property operating expenses, real estate taxes and repair and maintenance expenditures. These tenant charges are collectively referred to as tenant occupancy costs. These tenant occupancy costs are compared to tenant sales. A low cost of occupancy percentage shows more potential capacity for the Company to increase rents at the time of lease renewal than a high cost of occupancy percentage. The following table summarizes occupancy costs for Mall Store and Freestanding Store tenants in the Centers as a percentage of total Mall Store sales for the last five years: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________________

(1)Cascade Mall and Northgate Mall were sold on January 18, 2017 and are excluded for the year ended December 31, 2016.

(2)Flagstaff Mall was conveyed to the mortgage lender by a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure on July 15, 2016 and is excluded for the year ended December 31, 2015.

(3)Represents real estate tax and common area maintenance charges.

10

Lease Expirations: 

The following tables show scheduled lease expirations for Centers owned as of December 31, 2019 for the next ten years, assuming that none of the tenants exercise renewal options:

Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores under 10,000 square feet: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

Big Boxes and Anchors: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)The ending base rent per square foot on leases expiring during the period represents the final year minimum rent, on a cash basis, for tenant leases expiring during the year. Currently, 30% of leases have provisions for future consumer price index increases that are not reflected in ending base rent. The leases for Centers currently under development and redevelopment are excluded from this table.

Anchors:

Anchors have traditionally been a major factor in the public's identification with Regional Shopping Centers. Anchors are generally department stores whose merchandise appeals to a broad range of shoppers. Although the Centers receive a smaller percentage of their operating income from Anchors than from Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores, strong Anchors play an important part in maintaining customer traffic and making the Centers desirable locations for Mall Store and Freestanding Store tenants.

Anchors either own their stores, the land under them and in some cases adjacent parking areas, or enter into long-term leases with an owner at rates that are lower than the rents charged to tenants of Mall Stores and Freestanding Stores. Each Anchor that owns its own store and certain Anchors that lease their stores enter into reciprocal easement agreements with the owner of the Center covering, among other things, operational matters, initial construction and future expansion.

Anchors accounted for approximately 7.3% of the Company's total rents for the year ended December 31, 2019.

12

The following table identifies each Anchor, each parent company that owns multiple Anchors and the number of square feet owned or leased by each such Anchor or parent company in the Company's portfolio at December 31, 2019. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________

(1)JCPenney announced plans to close their store at Green Acres Mall in 2020. The Company is actively releasing this site.

(2)Three of these five Sears stores are closing in early 2020. The Company continues to collect rent under the terms of the related leases. The Company is actively seeking replacement tenants for these Company-owned sites.

(3)Nordstrom has announced plans to open a 116,000 square foot store at Country Club Plaza in 2021.

(4)Forever 21 has announced plans to close two of these stores in early 2020 at Arrowhead Towne Center and Danbury Fair Mall. The Company is actively seeking replacement tenants for these Company-owned sites.

13

(5)The Lord & Taylor store closed at Tysons Corner Center in January 2020. The joint venture is actively evaluating redevelopment opportunities.

(6)Primark has announced plans to open a 47,000 square foot store at Fashion District Philadelphia in Spring 2021.

(7)The Company is actively seeking replacement tenants or has entered into replacement leases for many of these vacant sites and/or is currently executing on or considering redevelopment opportunities for these locations. The Company continues to collect rent under the terms of an agreement regarding one of these vacant Anchors.

(8)The Company owns an office building and six stores located at shopping centers not owned by the Company. Of these six stores, one has been leased to Kohl's, two are vacant and three have been leased for non-Anchor usage. 

Environmental Matters

Each of the Centers has been subjected to an Environmental Site Assessment—Phase I (which involves review of publicly available information and general property inspections, but does not involve soil sampling or ground water analysis) completed by an environmental consultant.

Based on these assessments, and on other information, the Company is aware of the following environmental issues, which may result in potential environmental liability and cause the Company to incur costs in responding to these liabilities or in other costs associated with future investigation or remediation:

•Asbestos. The Company has conducted asbestos-containing materials ("ACM") surveys at various locations within the Centers. The surveys indicate that ACMs are present or suspected in certain areas, primarily vinyl floor tiles, mastics, roofing materials, drywall tape and joint compounds. The identified ACMs are generally non-friable, in good condition, and possess low probabilities for disturbance. At certain Centers where ACMs are present or suspected, however, some ACMs have been or may be classified as "friable," and ultimately may require removal under certain conditions. The Company has developed and implemented an operations and maintenance ("O&M") plan to manage ACMs in place.

•Underground Storage Tanks. Underground storage tanks ("USTs") are or were present at certain Centers, often in connection with tenant operations at gasoline stations or automotive tire, battery and accessory service centers located at such Centers. USTs also may be or have been present at properties neighboring certain Centers. Some of these tanks have either leaked or are suspected to have leaked. Where leakage has occurred, investigation, remediation, and monitoring costs may be incurred by the Company if responsible current or former tenants, or other responsible parties, are unavailable to pay such costs.

•Chlorinated Hydrocarbons. The presence of chlorinated hydrocarbons such as perchloroethylene ("PCE") and its degradation byproducts have been detected at certain Centers, often in connection with tenant dry cleaning operations. Where PCE has been detected, the Company may incur investigation, remediation and monitoring costs if responsible current or former tenants, or other responsible parties, are unavailable to pay such costs.

See "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Possible environmental liabilities could adversely affect us."

Insurance 

Each of the Centers has comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance with insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. The Company does not insure certain types of losses (such as losses from wars), because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. In addition, while the Company or the relevant joint venture, as applicable, carry specific earthquake insurance on the Centers located in California, the policies are subject to a deductible equal to 5% of the total insured value of each Center, a $100,000 per occurrence minimum and a combined annual aggregate loss limit of $100 million on these Centers. The Company or the relevant joint venture, as applicable, carry specific earthquake insurance on the Centers located in the Pacific Northwest and in the New Madrid Seismic Zone. However, the policies are subject to a deductible equal to 2% of the total insured value of each Center, a $50,000 per occurrence minimum and a combined annual aggregate loss limit of $100 million on these Centers. While the Company or the relevant joint venture also carries standalone terrorism insurance on the Centers, the policies are subject to a $25,000 deductible and a combined annual aggregate loss limit of $1.0 billion. Each Center has environmental insurance covering eligible third-party losses, remediation and non-owned disposal sites, subject to a $100,000 retention and a $50 million three-year aggregate loss limit, with the exception of one Center, which has a $5 million ten-year aggregate loss limit and another Center, which has a $20 million ten-year aggregate loss limit. Some environmental losses are not covered by this insurance because they are uninsurable or not economically insurable. Furthermore, the Company carries title insurance on substantially all of the Centers for generally less than their full value. 

14

Qualification as a Real Estate Investment Trust

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), commencing with its first taxable year ended December 31, 1994, and intends to conduct its operations so as to continue to qualify as a REIT under the Code. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to federal and state income taxes on its net taxable income that it currently distributes to stockholders. Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends on the Company's ability to meet certain dividend distribution tests, share ownership requirements and various qualification tests prescribed in the Code.

Supplemental Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations

The following discussion updates the disclosures under “Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” in the prospectus dated August 10, 2017 contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC on August 10, 2017, as previously updated by the disclosures under “Supplemental Material Federal Income Tax Considerations” in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on February 23, 2018 and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC on February 25, 2019 (collectively, the “Base Disclosure”).

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA") repealed the rule, referenced under the heading “Taxable REIT Subsidiaries,” that limits a taxable REIT subsidiary’s ability to deduct interest payments made to the Company. The TCJA introduced a rule which may limit the deductibility of interest payments by the Company and its subsidiaries, including its Taxable REIT subsidiaries. However, certain tax elections may be available to a "real property trade or business" to have this rule not apply.

Recently promulgated proposed regulations make certain changes to the discussion of “qualified foreign pension funds” appearing under the heading “Taxation of Non-U.S. Stockholders–Dispositions of Stock”. Under the proposed regulations, entities that are wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more qualified foreign pension funds are exempt from FIRPTA in the same manner as described in the Base Disclosure for qualified foreign pension funds. The proposed regulations also do not require an entity to provide annual information reporting about its beneficiaries to relevant local tax authorities in order to qualify as a qualified foreign pension fund as long as such information is either available to the taxing authorities or is provided to another government agency. These proposed regulations have not been finalized, may never be finalized, and may be rescinded at any time, but taxpayers may rely on them while they are proposed, provided they apply them consistently and accurately. 

The TCJA introduced a rule which expanded the scope of the $1 million limitation on corporate tax deductions and repealed the exclusion for performance-based compensation (the "section 162(m) limitation"). Proposed regulations were issued in late 2019 which may cause the Company to be subject to the section 162(m) limitation.

Employees

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had approximately 737 employees, of which approximately 723 were full-time. The Company believes that relations with its employees are good.

Seasonality

The shopping center industry is seasonal in nature, particularly in the fourth quarter during the holiday season when retailer occupancy and retail sales are typically at their highest levels. In addition, shopping malls achieve a substantial portion of their specialty (temporary retailer) rents during the holiday season and the majority of percentage rent is recognized in the fourth quarter. As a result of the above, earnings are generally higher in the fourth quarter.

Sustainability

A recognized leader in sustainability, the Company has achieved the #1 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) ranking in the North American Retail Sector for five straight years 2015 – 2019. Additional information about the Company’s Environmental, Social and Governance programs can be obtained from the Company's website at www.macerich.com.

15

Available Information; Website Disclosure; Corporate Governance Documents

The Company's corporate website address is www.macerich.com. The Company makes available free-of-charge through this website its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and all amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These reports are available under the heading "Investors—Financial Information—SEC Filings", through a free hyperlink to a third-party service. Information provided on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. The following documents relating to Corporate Governance are available on the Company's website at www.macerich.com under "Investors—Corporate Governance":

Guidelines on Corporate Governance

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics

Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers

Audit Committee Charter

Compensation Committee Charter

Executive Committee Charter

Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter

You may also request copies of any of these documents by writing to:

Attention: Corporate Secretary

The Macerich Company

401 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 700

Santa Monica, CA 90401

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS