PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

BACKGROUND

As used in this report, except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Moody’s” or the “Company” refer to Moody’s Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. The Company’s executive offices are located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007 and its telephone number is (212) 553-0300.

THE COMPANY

Company Overview

Moody’s is a provider of (i) credit ratings and assessment services; (ii) credit, capital markets and economic research, data and analytical tools; (iii) software solutions that support financial risk management activities; (iv) quantitatively derived credit scores; (v) learning solutions and certification services; (vi) offshore financial research and analytical services (this business was divested with the sale of the MAKS in the fourth quarter of 2019); and (vii) company information and business intelligence products. Moody’s reports in two reportable segments: MIS and MA. Financial information and operating results of these segments, including revenue, expenses and operating income, are included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this annual report, and are herein incorporated by reference.

MIS publishes credit ratings and provides assessment services on a wide range of debt obligations and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide, including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. Ratings revenue is derived from the originators and issuers of such transactions who use MIS ratings to support the distribution of their debt issues to investors. MIS provides ratings in more than 130 countries. Ratings are disseminated via press releases to the public through a variety of print and electronic media, including the internet and real-time information systems widely used by securities traders and investors. As of December 31, 2019, MIS had the following ratings relationships:

–Approximately 4,900 rated non-financial corporate issuers;

–Approximately 4,100 rated financial institutions issuers;

–Approximately 17,200 rated public finance issuers (including sovereign, sub-sovereign and supranational issuers);

–Approximately 9,500 rated structured finance transactions; and

–Approximately 1,000 rated infrastructure and project finance issuers.

MIS earns revenue from certain non-ratings-related operations, which primarily consist of financial instruments pricing services in the Asia-Pacific region as well as revenue from ICRA non-rating operations. The revenue from these operations is included in the MIS Other LOB and is not material to the results of the MIS segment.

MA provides financial intelligence and analytical tools to assist businesses in making decisions. MA’s portfolio of solutions consists of specialized research, data, software, and professional services, which are assembled to support the financial analysis and risk management activities of institutional customers worldwide. MA customers represent more than 11,000 institutions worldwide operating in over 155 countries. During 2019, Moody’s research website was accessed by over 306,000 individuals including 41,000 customer users.

Corporate Social Responsibility

Moody’s believes that knowledge fuels opportunity. The core of Moody’s business is to provide credit ratings, research, tools and analysis that help to equip participants in the global financial markets to understand risks and make important investment decisions with critical insight. Moody’s global corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts are rooted in that same approach. Moody’s is committed to working to empower people with the knowledge, resources and confidence they need to create a better future – for themselves, their communities and the environment.

The CSR Council, chaired by President and CEO Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr. and comprised of members of the management team, evaluates the Company’s CSR progress and generates recommendations on its CSR strategy. The CSR Working Group, comprised of senior executives, is then charged with implementing the Company’s CSR strategy. In addition, the Company’s Board of Directors oversees sustainability matters, with assistance from the Governance & Nominating Committee, as part of its oversight of management and the Company’s overall strategy. For more information on Moody’s approach to CSR, see moodys.com/csr. The content of this website is not incorporated by reference herein.

10 MOODY'S 2019 10-K
Sustainability

Moody’s advances sustainability by considering Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) factors throughout its operations and two business segments. It uses its expertise and assets to make a positive difference through technology tools, research and analytical services that help other organizations and the investor community better understand the links between sustainability considerations and the global markets. Moody’s efforts to promote sustainability-related thought leadership, assessments and data to market participants include following the policies of recognized sustainability and corporate social responsibility parties that develop standards or frameworks and/or evaluate and assess performance, including Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). Moody’s sustainability-related achievements in 2019 included the following: (i) Moody’s began reporting using recommendations from SASB; (ii) the Company became a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment; (iii) it joined the United Nations Global Compact; and (iv) it issued its second annual report on how the Company has implemented the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 

PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH

Over recent decades, global fixed-income markets have grown significantly both in terms of the amount and types of securities or other obligations outstanding. Moody’s believes the overall long-term outlook remains favorable for continued growth of the global fixed-income market and related financial information market, which includes information such as credit opinions, research, data, analytics, risk management tools and related services.

Moody’s growth is influenced by a number of trends that impact financial information markets including:

–Health of the world’s major economies;

–Debt capital markets activity;

–Disintermediation of credit markets;

–Fiscal and monetary policy of governments; and

–Business investment spending, including mergers and acquisitions.

In an environment of increasing financial complexity and heightened attention to credit analysis and risk management, Moody’s is well positioned to benefit from continued growth in global fixed-income market activity and a more widespread use of credit ratings, research and related analytical products. Moody’s expects that these developments will support continued long-term demand for high quality, independent credit opinions, research, data, analytics, risk management tools and related services.

Strong secular trends should continue to provide long-term growth opportunities. For MIS, key growth drivers include debt market issuance driven by global GDP growth, continued disintermediation of fixed-income markets in both developed and emerging economies driving issuance and demand for new ratings products and services. Growth in MA is likely to be driven by deeper and broader penetration of the customer base as data demands, regulatory compliance and other analytical requirements drive demand for MA’s products and expertise. Moreover, pricing opportunities aligned with customer value creation and advances in information technology present growth opportunities for Moody’s.

Growth in global fixed income markets in a given year is dependent on many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates, business investment spending, corporate refinancing needs, merger and acquisition activity, issuer profits, consumer borrowing levels and securitization activity. Rating fees paid by debt issuers account for most of the revenue of MIS. Therefore, a substantial portion of MIS’s revenue is dependent upon the dollar-equivalent volume and number of ratable debt securities issued in the global capital markets. MIS’s results can be affected by factors such as the performance and prospects for growth of the major world economies, the fiscal and monetary policies pursued by their governments, and the decisions of issuers to request MIS ratings to aid investors in their investment decisions. However, annual fee arrangements with frequent debt issuers, annual debt monitoring fees and annual fees from commercial paper and medium-term note programs, bank deposit ratings, insurance company financial strength ratings, mutual fund ratings, and other areas partially mitigate MIS’s dependence on the volume or number of new debt securities issued in the global fixed-income markets. Furthermore, the strong growth seen in the issuance of structured finance securities from the mid-1990’s reversed dramatically in 2008 due to market turmoil, before stabilizing in 2011. Despite significant declines from peak market issuance levels, Moody’s believes that structured finance securities will continue to play a role in global fixed-income markets and provide opportunities for long-term revenue growth.

The pace of change in technology and communication over the past two decades makes information about investment alternatives widely available throughout the world and facilitates issuers’ ability to place securities outside their national markets and similarly investors’ ability to obtain information about securities issued outside their national markets. Technology also allows issuers and investors the ability to more readily obtain information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell, which in the absence of the appropriate technology might not be readily or easily obtainable. This availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and expansion of financial markets worldwide, giving issuers and investors access to a wider range of both established and newer capital markets. As technology provides broader access to worldwide markets, it also results in a greater need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk, data, analytics and related services. Additionally, information technology also provides opportunities to further build a global platform to support Moody’s continued expansion in developing markets.

MOODY'S 2019 10-K 11
An ongoing trend in the world’s capital markets is the disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers increasingly raise capital in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or instead of, retaining those assets. Moody’s believes that issuer use of global debt capital markets offer advantages in capacity and efficiency compared to traditional banking systems and that the trend of increased disintermediation will continue. Further, disintermediation has continued because of the historically low interest rate environment and bank deleveraging, which has encouraged a number of corporations and other entities to seek alternative funding in the bond markets.

Moody’s also observes disintermediation in key emerging markets where economic growth may outpace internal banking system capacity. Thus, disintermediation is expected to continue over the longer-term, with Moody’s targeting investment and resources to those markets where disintermediation and bond issuance is expected to remain robust.

In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, banking, insurance and capital markets authorities promulgated a wide range of new regulations to restore stability and confidence in financial institutions under their oversight. Programs such as Basel III, Solvency II, and CCAR — among many others — prompted banks, insurers, securities dealers, and asset managers to invest in more robust risk management practices and systems. Many of these investments drew on expertise and tools offered by MA, resulting in strong revenue growth in the post-crisis period. As banking and capital markets stabilized, and with financial institutions better capitalized, regulatory-driven demand for certain MA products has moderated, while in other areas (e.g., anti-money laundering (AML) and know-your-customer (KYC) compliance) regulatory-driven demand for data and solutions remains strong. We expect MA products and services that improve efficiencies, provide business insights and enable compliance with financial regulation, including AML, KYC, and accounting standards, will continue to be adopted by institutions worldwide. Finally, in order to respond to other sources of demand and drive growth, MA is actively investing in new products, including enhanced data sets and improved delivery methods (e.g., software-as-a-service). These efforts should support broader distribution of MA’s capabilities, deepen relationships with existing customers and drive new customer acquisition.

Legislative bodies and regulators in the U.S., Europe and other jurisdictions continue to conduct regulatory reviews of CRAs, which may result in, for example, an increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities of MIS, removal of references to ratings in certain regulations, or increased costs of doing business for MIS. At present, Moody’s is unable to assess the nature and effect that any regulatory changes may have on future growth opportunities.

Moody’s operations are subject to various risks, as more fully described in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors,” inherent in conducting business on a global basis. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions.

COMPETITION

MIS competes with other CRAs and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many users of MIS’s ratings also have in-house credit research capabilities. MIS’s largest competitor in the global credit rating business is S&P Global Ratings (S&P), a division of S&P Global. There are some rating markets, based on industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions superior to S&P, while in other markets, the reverse is true.

In addition to S&P, MIS’s competitors in the U.S. include Fitch Ratings, A.M. Best Company, Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc., and Morningstar Inc. In Europe, there are approximately 40 companies currently registered with ESMA, which include both purely domestic European CRAs and International CRAs such as S&P and Fitch. There are additional competitors in other regions and countries, some of which are global entities and compete across regions and asset classes, while others focus on particular asset classes and regions.

MA competes broadly in the financial information industry against diversified competitors such as Refinitiv, Bloomberg, S&P Global Market Intelligence, Fitch Solutions, D&B, SS&C Technologies, Wolters Kluwer, Fidelity National Information Services, SAS, Fiserv, MSCI and IHS Markit among others. MA’s main competitors within RD&A include S&P Global Market Intelligence, CreditSights, Refinitiv, Intex, IHS Markit, BlackRock Solutions, FactSet and other providers of fixed income analytics, valuations, economic data and research. In ERS, MA faces competition from both large software providers such as SS&C Technologies, Fidelity National Information Services, SAS, Oracle, Finastra, Oliver Wyman, Verisk Analytics and various other vendors and in-house solutions. Within Professional Services, MA competes with a host of financial training and education firms.

MOODY’S STRATEGY

Moody’s corporate mission is to be the world’s most respected authority serving financial risk-sensitive markets. The key aspects to implement this strategy are to:

–Defend and enhance the core ratings and research business of MIS;

–Build MA’s position as a leading provider of data, analytics and risk management solutions to financial institutions, corporations, and governmental authorities; and

–Invest in strategic growth opportunities.

12 MOODY'S 2019 10-K
Moody’s will make investments to defend and enhance its core businesses in an attempt to position the Company to fully capture market opportunities resulting from global debt capital market expansion and increased business investment spending. Moody’s will also make strategic investments to achieve scale in attractive financial information markets, move into attractive product and service adjacencies where the Company can leverage its brand, extend its thought leadership and expand its geographic presence in high growth emerging markets.

To broaden the Company’s potential, MA provides a wide range of products and services to enable financial institutions, corporations and governmental authorities to better manage risk. As such, MA adds to the Company’s value proposition in three ways. First, MA’s subscription businesses provide a significant base of recurring revenue to offset cyclicality in ratings issuance volumes that may result in volatility in MIS’s revenues. Second, MA products and services, such as financial training and professional services on research and risk management best practices, provide opportunities for entry into emerging markets before banking systems and debt capital markets fully develop and thus present long-term growth opportunities for the ratings business. Finally, MA’s integrated risk management software platform embeds Moody’s solutions deep into the technology infrastructure of banks and insurance companies worldwide.

Moody’s invests in initiatives to implement the Company’s strategy, including internally led organic development and targeted acquisitions. Example initiatives include:

–Enhancements to ratings quality and product extensions;

–Investments that extend ownership and participation in joint ventures and strategic alliances;

–New products, services, content (e.g., non-credit risk assessments such as ESG and cybersecurity risk) and technology capabilities to meet customer demands;

–Selective bolt-on acquisitions that accelerate the ability to scale and grow Moody’s businesses; and

–Expansion in emerging markets.

During 2019, Moody’s continued to invest in and acquire complementary businesses in MIS and MA as further described below:

–In April 2019, Moody’s acquired a majority stake in Vigeo Eiris, a provider of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) research, data and assessments. The acquisition furthers Moody’s objective of promoting global standards for ESG for use by market participants;

–In June 2019, Moody’s formed a joint venture with Team8, a cybersecurity think tank and company creation platform, to establish a global standard for evaluating and assessing cyber risk for enterprises. The joint venture builds on Moody’s investments and initiatives in cybersecurity and emerging technologies, including its 2018 strategic investment in Team8;

–In July 2019, Moody’s acquired a majority stake in Four Twenty Seven, Inc., a provider of data, intelligence, and analysis related to physical climate risks. This further complements Moody’s ESG research, data and assessment capabilities and its majority acquisition of Vigeo Eiris; 

–Also in July 2019, Moody’s acquired RiskFirst, a provider of risk analytic solutions for the asset management and pension fund communities. The acquisition positions MA to extend its range of market-leading risk solutions to the institutional buy-side; 

–In October 2019, Moody’s acquired the ABS Suite business from Deloitte & Touche LLP. ABS Suite is a software platform used by issuers and trustees for the administration of asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities programs. The transaction strengthens MA’s position as a leading provider of structured finance solutions; 

–Also in October 2019, Moody’s acquired a minority stake in SynTao Green Finance, a provider of ESG data and analytics based in and serving China. The investment strengthens Moody’s presence and engagement in China and its financial markets, with a focus on supporting long-term, sustainable growth and contributing to the healthy development of ESG markets. It also complements the acquisitions of majority stakes in Vigeo Eiris and Four Twenty Seven, Inc. 

Additionally, in November 2019, Moody’s completed the sale of Moody’s Analytics Knowledge Services (MAKS), a provider of offshore research and analytic services to the global financial and corporate sectors. Moody’s made the decision to divest the MAKS business given increasing strategic focus on providing its customers with financial intelligence and analytical tools and as a service business, MAKS was increasingly less relevant in this regard.

REGULATION

MIS and many of the securities that it rates are subject to extensive regulation in both the U.S. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). Existing and proposed laws and regulations can impact the Company’s operations and the markets for securities that it rates. Additional laws and regulations have been proposed or are being considered. Each of the existing, adopted, proposed and potential laws and regulations can increase the costs and legal risk associated with the Company’s operations, including the issuance of credit ratings, and may negatively impact the Company’s profitability and ability to compete, or result in changes in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which credit ratings are utilized and in the manner in which the Company operates.

MOODY'S 2019 10-K 13
The regulatory landscape has changed rapidly in recent years and continues to evolve. In the U.S., CRAs are subject to extensive regulation primarily pursuant to the Reform Act and the Dodd-Frank Act. The Reform Act added Section 15E to the Exchange Act and provided the SEC with the authority to establish a registration and oversight program for credit rating agencies registered as NRSROs. Among other things, the Reform Act requires the SEC to submit an annual report to Congress providing an overview of SEC activities with respect to NRSROs, and detailing the SEC’s views on the state of competition, transparency and conflicts of interests among NRSROs. The Dodd-Frank Act enhanced the SEC’s oversight of the regulation of NRSROs, and includes a requirement that the SEC publish an annual report summarizing the results of its annual examinations of NRSROs. To date, through a series of rulemakings, the SEC has implemented a number of Exchange Act provisions related to NRSROs. These include, for example, provisions addressing disclosure of data and assumptions underlying credit ratings, conflicts of interest with respect to sales and marketing practices, disclosure of performance statistics, application and disclosure of credit rating methodologies, analyst training and testing and consistent application of rating symbols and definitions. The Company has made and continues to make substantial IT and other investments, and has implemented the relevant compliance obligations.

In the EU, the CRA industry is registered and supervised through a pan-European regulatory framework. The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has direct supervisory responsibility for the registered CRA industry throughout the EU. MIS’ EU CRA subsidiaries are registered and are subject to formal regulation and periodic inspection. Applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to use of credit ratings, independence and avoidance of conflicts of interest, conflicts of interest concerning investments in CRAs, CRA rotation, methodologies, models and key rating assumptions, use of multiple CRAs, outsourcing, disclosures, credit ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, reporting requirements to ESMA regarding fees, and additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. From time to time, ESMA publishes interpretive guidance, or thematic reports regarding various aspects of the regulation and, annually, sets out its work program for the forthcoming year. During 2019, supervisory priorities included credit ratings quality, cybersecurity, Brexit and fees charged by CRAs. In 2019, ESMA updated guidelines, issued new guidelines and published an update to its thematic report on its observations of CRA fee practices. ESMA’s 2020 work program includes the credit rating process, methodology development and validation, governance and internal controls, including with respect to IT and information security where ESMA is expected to publish cloud guidelines in Q1. Policy priorities include assisting the European Commission in promoting sustainable finance in the field of CRAs. 

In 2016, the European Commission published a report concluding that no new EU legislation was necessary at that time, but that it would continue to monitor the credit rating industry and analyze approaches that may strengthen existing regulation. The European Commission is expected to publish a report in Q1 2020 on CRAs and the integration of sustainability factors into their credit rating opinions and in Q2 on Sustainability Research and Ratings. Furthermore, new proposals on data are expected from the European Commission in 2020 which may have a direct or indirect impact on the Company. 

Separately, on June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted to exit the E.U. and on January 31, 2020 formally left the E.U. There is now a transition period of 11 months until December 31, 2020 when most EU law will remain applicable in the U.K.. The longer-term impact of the decision to leave the E.U. on the overall regulatory framework for the U.K. will depend, in part, on the relationship that the U.K. negotiates with the E.U. During the transition period, the E.U. CRA regulatory framework will remain in place in the U.K. and firms must continue to abide by their existing obligations with ESMA as the regulator of EU-registered CRAs. It is expected that from the start of 2021, legislation for CRAs under the supervision of the Financial Conduct Authority will come into force in the U.K.

In light of the regulations that have gone into effect in both the E.U. and the U.S. (as well as many other countries), periodically and as a matter of course pursuant to their enabling legislation, regulatory authorities have and will continue to publish reports that describe their oversight activities over the industry. In addition, other legislation and/or interpretation of existing regulation relating to the Company’s operations, including credit rating, ancillary and research services is being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and this type of activity is likely to continue in the future. Finally, in certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based CRAs. For example, governments may from time to time establish official CRAs or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and regulation could change the competitive landscape in which MIS operates. The legal status of CRAs has been addressed by courts in various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of the Company cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted, the outcome of any pending or possible future legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of the Company.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Moody’s and its affiliates own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to proprietary information, trademarks, research, publications, software tools and applications, models and methodologies, databases, domain names, and other proprietary materials that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moody’s business. Management of Moody’s believes that each of the trademarks and related corporate names, marks and logos relating to its businesses, including those containing the term “Moody’s”, are of material importance to the Company.

14 MOODY'S 2019 10-K
The Company, primarily through MA and its subsidiaries, licenses certain of its databases, software applications, credit risk models, training courses in credit risk and capital markets, research and other publications and services that contain intellectual property to its customers. These licenses are provided pursuant to standard fee-bearing agreements containing customary restrictions and intellectual property protections.

In addition, Moody’s licenses from third parties certain technology, data and other intellectual property rights. Specifically, Moody’s obtains licenses from third parties to use financial information (such as market and index data, financial statement data, research data, default data, and security identifiers) as well as software development tools and libraries. In addition, the Company’s Bureau van Dijk business obtains from third party information providers certain financial, credit risk, compliance, management, ownership and other data on companies worldwide, which Bureau van Dijk distributes through its company information products. The Company obtains such technology and intellectual property rights from generally available commercial sources. The Company also utilizes generally available open source software and libraries for internal use and subject to appropriately permissive open source licenses, to carry out routine functions in certain of the Company’s software products. Most of such technology and intellectual property is available from a variety of sources. Although certain financial information (particularly security identifiers, certain pricing or index data, and certain company financial data in selected geographic markets) is available from a limited number of sources, Moody’s does not believe it is dependent on any one data source for a material aspect of its business.

The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to Moody’s or one or more of its affiliates. The Company owns three patents. None of the Company's intellectual property is subject to a specific expiration date, except to the extent that the patents and the copyright in items that the Company creates (such as credit reports, research, software, and other written opinions) expire pursuant to relevant law.

The Company considers its intellectual property to be proprietary, and Moody’s relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, non-disclosure and other contractual safeguards for protection. Moody’s also pursues instances of third-party infringement of its intellectual property in order to protect the Company’s rights.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2019 the number of full-time equivalent employees of Moody’s was approximately 11,000.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Moody’s investor relations internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

MOODY'S 2019 10-K 15
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16 MOODY'S 2019 10-K
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS