Part II ♦ Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

ITEM 7A – QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

As discussed earlier, the Company’s operations are highly dependent upon the interest rate-sensitive construction and steelmaking industries. Consequently, these marketplaces could experience lower levels of economic activity in an environment of rising interest rates or escalating costs (see Business Environment section included under Item 7 – MD&A of this Form 10-K).  

Management has considered the current economic environment and its potential impact to the Company’s business. Demand for aggregates products, particularly in the infrastructure construction market, is affected by federal and state budget and deficit issues. Further, delays or cancellations of capital projects in the nonresidential and residential construction markets could occur if companies and consumers are unable to obtain financing for construction projects or if consumer confidence is eroded by economic uncertainty. 

Demand in the residential construction market is affected by interest rates. During 2019, the Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds rate several times throughout the year. The rate at December 31, 2019 was 1.55%. The residential construction market accounted for approximately 22% of the Company’s aggregates product line shipments in 2019.  

Aside from these inherent risks from within its operations, the Company’s earnings are also affected by changes in short-term interest rates.  

Variable-Rate Borrowing Facilities 

At December 31, 2019, the Company had a $700 million Revolving Facility and a $400 million Trade Receivable Facility. The Company also has $300 million of variable-rate senior notes outstanding. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at a variable interest rate. A hypothetical 100-basis-point increase in interest rates on borrowings of $640 million, which was the collective outstanding balance at December 31, 2019, would increase interest expense by $6.4 million on an annual basis.  

Pension Expense 

The Company’s results of operations are affected by its pension expense. Assumptions that affect pension expense include the discount rate and, for the defined benefit pension plans only, the expected long-term rate of return on assets. Therefore, the Company has interest rate risk associated with these factors. The impact of hypothetical changes in these assumptions on the Company’s annual pension expense is discussed in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Pension Expense – Selection of Assumptions section included under Item 7 – MD&A of this Form 10-K. 

Energy Costs  

Energy costs, including diesel fuel, natural gas, coal, petroleum coke and liquid asphalt, represent significant production costs of the Company. The Company may be unable to pass along increases in the costs of energy to customers in the form of price increases for the Company’s products. The cement product line and Magnesia Specialties business each have varying fixed-price agreements for a portion of their energy requirements. A hypothetical 10% change in the Company’s energy prices in 2020 as compared with 2019, assuming constant volumes, would change 2020 energy expense by $27.9 million.  

Commodity Risk 

Cement is a commodity and competition is based principally on price, which is highly sensitive to changes in supply and demand. Prices are often subject to material changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and other market conditions beyond the Company’s control. Increases in the production capacity of industry participants or increases in cement imports tend to create an oversupply of such products leading to an imbalance between supply and demand, which can have a negative impact on product prices. There can be no assurance that product prices will not decline in the future or that such declines will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A hypothetical 10% change in sales price of the cement product line would impact cement product line revenues by $43.9 million, excluding the net impact of internal sales.  

Cement is a key raw material in the production of ready mixed concrete. The Company may be unable to pass along increases in the costs of cement and raw materials to customers in the form of price increases for the Company’s products. A hypothetical 10% change in cement costs in 2020 compared with 2019, assuming constant volumes, would change the ready mixed concrete product line cost of sales by $24.5 million. 

Celebrating 25 Years as a Public Company  

Form 10-K ♦ Page 71   

Part II ♦ Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data