PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

Summary

Murphy Oil Corporation is a global oil and natural gas exploration and production company. As used in this report, the terms Murphy, Murphy Oil, we, our, its and Company may refer to Murphy Oil Corporation or any one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Company was originally incorporated in Louisiana in 1950 as Murphy Corporation. It was reincorporated in Delaware in 1964, at which time it adopted the name Murphy Oil Corporation, and was reorganized in 1983 to operate primarily as a holding company of its various businesses. In 2013, the U.S. downstream business was separated from Murphy Oil Corporation’s oil and natural gas exploration and production business. For reporting purposes, Murphy’s exploration and production activities are subdivided into three geographic segments, including the United States, Canada, and all other countries. Additionally, Corporate activities include interest income, interest expense, foreign exchange effects, corporate risk management activities and administrative costs not allocated to the segments. The Company’s corporate headquarters are located in El Dorado, Arkansas. 

At December 31, 2019, Murphy had 822 employees (2018: 1,108). 

In addition to the following information about each business activity, data about Murphy’s operations, properties and business segments, including revenues by class of products and financial information by geographic area, are provided on pages 22 through 36, 68 through 70, 94 through 108 and 111 of this Form 10-K report.

Interested parties may obtain the Company’s public disclosures filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and other documents, by accessing the Investor Relations section of Murphy Oil Corporation’s Website at www.murphyoilcorp.com.

Exploration and Production

The Company explores for and produces crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids worldwide. The Company’s management team directs the Company’s worldwide exploration and production activities. The business maintains upstream operating offices, with the most significant of these including Houston, Texas and Calgary, Alberta.

In July 2019, the Company closed a divestiture of its two subsidiaries conducting Malaysian operations, Murphy Sabah Oil Co., Ltd. and Murphy Sarawak Oil Co., Ltd., in a transaction with PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP). Total cash consideration received upon closing was $2.0 billion. Effective January 1, 2019, Malaysia operations were reported as discontinued operations, and a gain on sale of $985.4 million was recorded as part of discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Murphy is entitled to receive a $100.0 million bonus payment contingent upon certain future exploratory drilling results prior to October 2020. 

During 2019, Murphy’s principal continuing exploration and production activities were conducted in the United States by wholly-owned Murphy Exploration & Production Company – USA (Murphy Expro USA) and its subsidiaries, in Canada by wholly-owned Murphy Oil Company Ltd. (MOCL) and its subsidiaries, and in Australia, Brazil, Brunei, Mexico and Vietnam by wholly-owned Murphy Exploration & Production Company – International (Murphy Expro International) and its subsidiaries. Murphy’s continuing operations hydrocarbon production in 2019 was in the United States, Canada and Brunei (held for sale).

Unless otherwise indicated, all references to the Company’s offshore U.S. and total oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas production and sales volumes, and proved reserves include a noncontrolling interest in MP Gulf of Mexico, LLC (MP GOM; see further details below).

Murphy’s worldwide 2019 production (excluding Malaysia) on a barrel of oil equivalent basis (six thousand cubic feet of natural gas equals one barrel of oil) was 185,649 barrels of oil equivalent per day, an increase of 49.3% compared to 2018.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis section for further details on 2019 production and sales volume.

United States 

In the United States, Murphy has production of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas primarily from fields in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Eagle Ford Shale area of South Texas. The Company produced approximately 112,000 barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids per day and approximately 83 MMCF of natural gas per day in the U.S. in 2019. These amounts represented 78.9% of the Company’s total worldwide oil and natural gas liquids and 23.4% of worldwide natural gas production volumes.

1
Offshore

On May 31, 2019, the Company completed a transaction with LLOG Exploration Offshore L.L.C. and LLOG Bluewater Holdings, L.L.C., (LLOG), which was effective January 1, 2019. Through this transaction, Murphy acquired strategic deepwater Gulf of Mexico assets which added approximately 67.4 MMBOE of proven reserves at May 31, 2019. 

Under the terms of the transaction, Murphy paid cash consideration of $1,238.4 million. Murphy has a future obligation to pay $50 million following first oil from certain development projects, as well as, additional contingent consideration of up to $200 million in the event that certain revenue thresholds are exceeded between 2019 and 2022.

In 2018, Murphy Expro USA and Petrobras America Inc. (PAI), a subsidiary of Petróleo Brasileiro S.A., closed a transaction among Murphy, PAI and MP Gulf of Mexico, LLC (MP GOM), a subsidiary of Murphy. The transaction had an effective date of October 1, 2018. MP GOM is now owned 80% by Murphy and 20% by PAI. Throughout this 10-K report, unless stated otherwise, financial and operational metrics relating to MP GOM include PAI’s 20% noncontrolling interest in MP GOM. 100% of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and cash flows of MP GOM are fully consolidated in the financial statements.

During 2019, approximately 64% of total U.S. hydrocarbon production was produced at fields in the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 79% of Gulf of Mexico production in 2019 was derived from six fields, including Dalmatian, Kodiak, Marmarlard, Neidermeyer, St. Malo and Cascade/Chinook. Total average daily production in the Gulf of Mexico in 2019 was 71,700 barrels of liquids and approximately 14 MMCF of natural gas. At December 31, 2019, Murphy had total proved reserves for Gulf of Mexico fields of 187.5 million barrels of oil and natural gas liquids and 132.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas. 

Below is a summary of Company’s major working interests in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Onshore

The Company holds rights to approximately 135 thousand gross acres in South Texas in the Eagle Ford Shale unconventional oil and natural gas play. Total 2019 production in the Eagle Ford Shale area was 40,204 barrels of oil and liquids per day and approximately 32 MMCF per day of natural gas. On a barrel of oil equivalent basis, Eagle Ford Shale production accounted for 36.0% of total U.S. production volumes in 2019. At December 31, 2019, the Company’s proved reserves for the U.S. Onshore business totaled 243.1 million barrels of liquids and 283.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas. 

Canada 

In Canada, the Company holds one wholly-owned natural gas area (Tupper Montney), working interests in the Kaybob Duvernay (operated), liquids rich Placid Montney (non-operated) lands, and two non-operated assets – the Hibernia and Terra Nova fields offshore Newfoundland in the Jeanne d’Arc Basin.

Onshore

The Company has approximately 94 thousand gross acres of Tupper Montney mineral rights located in northeast British Columbia. In 2016, the Company completed its transaction to divest natural gas processing and sales pipeline assets that support Murphy’s Montney natural gas fields in the Tupper area. Connected with this sale, the Company entered into a commitment for 285 MMCFD of natural gas processing capacity for minimum monthly payments through 2035. In 2018, the Company entered into a further commitment, commencing November 2020 for an additional 200 MMCFD processing capacity.

In 2016, the Company acquired a 70% operated working interest in Kaybob Duvernay lands and a 30% non-operated working interest in liquids rich Placid Montney lands, both in Alberta. The acquisition included an additional $168.0 million in the form of a carried interest on the Kaybob Duvernay property. As of December 31, 2019, $152.7 million of the carried interest had been paid and the remainder is expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2020. The Company has approximately 348 thousand gross acres of Kaybob Duvernay and Placid Montney mineral rights.

Also in 2016, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its wholly-owned Seal field located in the Peace River area of northwest Alberta. This sale was completed in January 2017. Finally, in 2016, MOCL completed the sale of its 5% undivided interest in Syncrude Canada Ltd. (Syncrude).

Daily production in 2019 in onshore Canada averaged 7,600 barrels of liquids and approximately 271 MMCF of natural gas, an increase of 12.0% and 1.8% versus 2018, respectively. Total onshore Canada proved liquids and natural gas reserves at December 31, 2019, were approximately 29.3 million barrels and 1.6 trillion cubic feet, respectively. 

Offshore

Murphy has a 6.5% working interest in Hibernia Main, a 4.3% working interest in Hibernia South Extension, and a 10.475% working interest at Terra Nova. Oil production in 2019 was approximately 6,543 barrels of oil per day for the two offshore Canada fields. Total proved oil reserves at December 31, 2019 for the two fields were approximately 19.3 million barrels of liquids and 12.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas.

Brunei

The Company has a working interest of 8.05% in Block CA-1 and a 30% working interest in Block CA-2; both assets are currently held for sale.

3
On November 23, 2017, the governments of both Brunei and Malaysia signed a Unitization Framework Agreement (UFA) which resulted in the Jagus East discovery in Block CA-1 forming part of a unitized field with the Gumusut-Kakap (GK) Unit in Malaysia.

Following the UFA, on July 4, 2018, a Participation Agreement was signed which finalized the Company’s interest in the Brunei section of the GK Unit.

The CA-1 and CA-2 blocks cover 1.44 million and 1.49 million gross acres, respectively. Four exploration wells were drilled in Block CA-1 and seven exploration wells were drilled in Block CA-2 at the end of 2019. 

The Company has a 30% non-operating working interest in Block CA-2. In December 2014, the governmental authority, PetroleumBrunei, approved an eight-year natural gas holding period until December 2022. The consortium is presently carrying out pre-development engineering related to the planned Kelidang Cluster development with the aim to achieve project sanction in 2021. 

Australia

In Australia, the Company holds four offshore exploration permits and serves as operator of three of them. All of the permits have high quality 3D seismic data available and exploration studies are ongoing. None of the permits has a drilling commitment and all have options to renew beyond the current expiry dates.

Vietnam

The Company holds a 65% working interest in Blocks 144 and 145; and a 40% interest in Block 15-1/05 and Block 15-2/17. The Company is operator of each of the three blocks.

In November 2019, the Company signed a new PSC with Vietnam National Oil and Gas Group, PetroVietnam Exploration Production Corporation Ltd. (PVEP) and SK Innovation Company Ltd., resulting in the Company now holding a 40% interest in Block 15-2/17.

In August 2015, the Company signed a farm-in agreement to acquire 35% of Block 15-1/05 and in March 2018 became the operator and increased its working interest to 40%. Block 15-1/05 contains the Lac Da Vang (LDV) discovered field and the consortium is progressing pre-development engineering. Declaration of Commerciality was made in January 2019, the field Outline Development Plan was approved in August 2019, and the Exploration Phase expired in December 2019. The Lac Da Trang (LDT) 1X exploration well, the last remaining commitment of the PSC, was completed in April 2019. First oil from LDV is currently planned by the end of 2022.

In November 2012, the Company signed a PSC with Vietnam National Oil and Gas Group and PVEP, where it holds a 65% interest and operatorship of Blocks 144 and 145. The blocks cover approximately 6.56 million gross acres and are located in the outer Phu Khanh Basin. The Company acquired 2D seismic for these blocks in 2013 and undertook seabed surveys in 2015 and 2016. The remaining commitment for the acquisition, processing and interpretation of six hundred square kilometers (600 km2) of 3D seismic is tentatively scheduled for 2021.

Mexico 

In 2016, Murphy and joint venture partners were the successful bidders on Block 5, which was offered as part of Mexico’s fourth phase, round one deepwater auction. Murphy was formally awarded the block in March 2017. Murphy is the operator of the Block with a 40% working interest. Block 5 is located in the deepwater Salinas Basin covering approximately 640,000 gross acres (2,600 square kilometers), with water depths ranging from 2,300 to 3,500 feet (700 to 1,100 meters). The initial exploration period for the license is four years and includes a commitment to drill one exploration well which was drilled in 2019.

4
Brazil

The Company now holds an interest in 6 blocks in the offshore regions of the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin (SEAL) in Brazil (SEAL-M-351, SEAL-M-428, SEAL-M-430, SEAL-M-501, SEAL-M-503 and SEAL-M-573). ExxonMobil is the operator of the blocks. Murphy has a 20% working interest, ExxonMobil has a 50% working interest and Enauta holds a 30% working interest. Murphy and the same partners were successful bidders for three more blocks (SEAL-M-505, 575, 637) in September 2019, award of these blocks was pending government approval at year-end 2019 and were approved in February 2020. 

Subject to government approval, Murphy has also farmed into 3 additional blocks in the Portiguar Basin (POT-M-857, POT-M-863, and POT-M-865) with a 30% working interest; Wintershall Dea is the operator.

Murphy’s total acreage position in Brazil as of December 31, 2019 (excluding 6 blocks pending approval at 2019 year end) is approximately 1,119,555 gross acres, offsetting several major Petrobras discoveries. There are no well commitments.

Proved Reserves

Total proved reserves for crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas as of December 31, 2019 are presented in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes proved developed reserves of 19.6 MMBOE, consisting of 17.7 MMBBL oil, 0.7 MMBBL NGLs, and 7.1 BCF natural gas, attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

2 Proved developed reserves attributed to asset held for sale in Brunei.

3 Includes proved undeveloped reserves of 5.0 MMBOE, consisting of 4.4 MMBBL oil, 0.2 MMBBL NGLs, and 2.4 BCF natural gas, attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

4 Includes proved reserves of 24.6 MMBOE, consisting of 22.1 MMBBL oil, 0.9 MMBBL NGLs, and 9.5 BCF natural gas, attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

5
Proved Reserves (Contd.)

Murphy Oil’s 2019 total proved reserves and proved undeveloped reserves are reconciled from 2018 as presented in the table below:

໿

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 For purposes of these computations, natural gas sales volumes are converted to equivalent barrels of oil using a ratio of six MCF of natural gas to one barrel of oil.

2 Includes 1.5 MMBOE of total proved undeveloped reserves attributable to conversion of certain LLOG properties acquired in 2019.

3 Includes 24.6 MMBOE and 5.0 MMBOE for total proved and proved undeveloped reserves, respectively, attributable to the noncontrolling interest in MP GOM.

໿During 2019, Murphy’s total proved reserves decreased by 19.0 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBOE). The decrease in reserves principally relates to the Malaysia divestiture of 121.4 MMBOE and 2019 production of 75.4 MMBOE; partially offset by Gulf of Mexico acquisitions of 76.2 MMBOE and extensions and discoveries of 38.5 MMBOE in the Eagle Ford Shale, 23.6 MMBOE in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and 11.1 MMBOE in Canada. 

Murphy’s total proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2019 decreased 61.0 MMBOE from a year earlier. The proved undeveloped reserves reported in the table as extensions and discoveries during 2019 were predominantly attributable to three areas: the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and the onshore Canada area of Kaybob Duvernay. Each of these areas had active development work ongoing during the year. The majority of proved undeveloped reserves associated with revisions of previous estimates was the result of deferral of capital expenditures in onshore Canada. The majority of the proved undeveloped reserves migration to the proved developed category are attributable to drilling in the Eagle Ford Shale, Gulf of Mexico, Kaybob Duvernay, and Tupper Montney. 

The Company spent approximately $918 million in 2019 to convert proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. The Company expects to spend approximately $1,370 million in 2020, $1,150 million in 2021 and $810 million in 2022 to move currently undeveloped proved reserves to the developed category. The anticipated level of spending in 2020 primarily includes drilling and development in the Eagle Ford Shale, Kaybob Duvernay, Tupper Montney, and Gulf of Mexico areas. 

At December 31, 2019, proved reserves are included for several development projects, including oil developments at the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas; Kaybob Duvernay in onshore Canada; deepwater Gulf of Mexico; and natural gas developments in Tupper Montney. Total proved undeveloped reserves associated with various development projects at December 31, 2019 were approximately 352.7 MMBOE, which represent 43% of the Company’s total proved reserves.

Certain development projects have proved undeveloped reserves that will take more than five years to bring to production. The Company operates deepwater fields in the Gulf of Mexico that have twenty undeveloped locations that exceed this five-year window. Total reserves associated with the twenty locations amount to approximately 2.6% of the Company’s total proved reserves at year-end 2019. The development of certain of these reserves stretches beyond five years due to limited well slots available, thus making it necessary to wait for depletion of other wells prior to initiating further development of these locations.

6
Murphy Oil’s Reserves Processes and Policies

As per the SEC, proved oil and natural gas reserves are “those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward.” The SEC has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves, as a “high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered.” Proved reserves estimates will generally be revised only as additional geologic or engineering data become available or as economic conditions change. Moreover, estimates of proved reserves may be revised as a result of future operations, effects of regulation by governmental agencies or geopolitical or economic risks. Therefore, the proved reserves included in this report are estimates only and should not be construed as being exact quantities, and if recovered, could be more or less than the estimated amounts.

Murphy has established both internal and external controls for estimating proved reserves that follow the guidelines set forth by the SEC for oil and natural gas reporting. Certain qualified technical personnel of Murphy from the various exploration and production offices are responsible for the preparation of proved reserve estimates and these technical representatives provide the necessary information and maintain the data as well as the documentation for all properties.

The Murphy proved reserves are then consolidated and reported through the Corporate Reserves group. Murphy’s General Manager of Corporate Reserves (Reserves Manager) leads the Corporate Reserves group that also includes Corporate reserve engineers and support staff in which all are independent of the Company’s oil and natural gas operational management and technical personnel. The Reserves Manager joined Murphy in 2018 and has more than 19 years of industry experience. He has a Bachelor of Science and a Master of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering as well as a Master of Business Administration. The Reserves Manager is also a licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas. The Reserves Manager reports to the Chief Financial Officer and makes annual presentations to the Board of Directors about the Company’s reserves. The Reserves Manager and the Corporate reserve engineers review and discuss reserves estimates directly with the Company’s technical staff in order to make every effort to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. The Reserves Manager coordinates and oversees the third-party audits which are performed annually and under Company policy generally target coverage of at least one-third of the barrel oil-equivalent volume of the Company’s proved reserves. 

The estimated proved reserves reported in this Form 10-K are prepared by Murphy’s internal employees. Internal audits may also be performed by the Reserves Manager and qualified engineering staff from areas of the Company other than the area being audited by third parties. In 2019, 99% of the Proved reserves were audited by third-party auditors. Murphy engaged both Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott) and McDaniel & Associates Consultants Ltd. (McDaniel) to perform a reserves audit of 60.6% and 38.7% of the Company’s total proved reserves, respectively.

Each significant exploration and production office also maintains one or more Qualified Reserve Estimators (QRE) on staff. The QRE is responsible for estimating and evaluating reserves and other reserves information for his or her assigned area. The QRE may personally make the estimates and evaluations of reserves or may supervise and approve the estimation and evaluation thereof by others. A QRE is professionally qualified to perform these reserves estimates as a result of having sufficient educational background, professional training, and professional experience to enable him or her to exercise prudent professional judgment. Larger offices (Houston and Calgary) of the Company also employ a Regional Reserves Coordinator (RRC) who supervises the local QREs. The RRC is usually a senior QRE who has the primary responsibility for coordinating and submitting reserves information to senior management.

QRE qualification requires a minimum of five years of practical experience in petroleum engineering or petroleum production geology, with at least three years of such experience being in the estimation and evaluation of reserves, and either a bachelors or advanced degree in petroleum engineering, geology or other discipline of engineering or physical science from a college or university of recognized stature, or the equivalent thereof from an appropriate government authority or professional organization. Murphy provides annual training to all company reserves estimators to ensure SEC requirements associated with reserves estimation and Form 10-K reporting are fulfilled. The training includes materials provided to each participant that outlines the latest guidance from the SEC as well as best practices for many engineering and geologic matters related to reserves estimation.

The Company’s QREs maintain files containing pertinent data regarding each significant reservoir. Each file includes sufficient data to support the calculations or analogies used to develop the values. Examples of data included in the file, as appropriate, include: production histories; pertinent drilling and workover histories; bottom hole pressure data; volumetric, material balance, analogy, or other pertinent reserve estimation data; production performance curves; narrative descriptions of the methods and logic used to determine reserves values; maps and logs; and a signed copy of the documentation stating that, in their opinion, the reserves have been calculated, reviewed, documented, and reported in compliance with SEC regulations. When reserves calculations are completed by technical personnel with the support of the QREs and appropriately reviewed by RRCs, the Corporate reserves engineers and the Reserves Manager, the conclusions are reviewed and approved with the heads of the Company’s exploration and production business units and other senior management on an annual 

7
Murphy Oil’s Reserves Processes and Policies (Contd).

basis. The Company’s Controller’s department is responsible for preparing and filing reserves schedules within the Form 10-K report.

To ensure accuracy and security of reported reserves, the proved reserves estimates are coordinated in industry-standard software with access controls for approved users. In addition, Murphy complies with audit controls concerning the various business processes related to reserves. 

More information regarding Murphy’s estimated quantities of proved reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas for the last three years are presented by geographic area on pages 95 through 102 of this Form 10-K report. Also, Murphy currently has no oil and natural gas reserves from non-traditional sources. Murphy has not filed and is not required to file any estimates of its total proved oil or natural gas reserves on a recurring basis with any federal or foreign governmental regulatory authority or agency other than the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Annually, Murphy reports gross reserves of properties operated in the United States to the U.S. Department of Energy; such reserves are derived from the same data from which estimated proved reserves of such properties are determined.

Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids production and sales, and natural gas sales by geographic area with weighted average sales prices for each of the three years ended December 31, 2019 are shown on pages 28 through 29 and 31 of this Form 10-K report. 

Production expenses for the last three years in U.S. dollars per equivalent barrel are discussed beginning on page 32 of this Form 10-K report. 

Supplemental disclosures relating to oil and natural gas producing activities are reported on pages 94 through 109 of this Form 10-K report.

At December 31, 2019, Murphy held leases, concessions, contracts or permits on developed and undeveloped acreage as shown by geographic area in the following table. Gross acres are those in which all or part of the working interest is owned by Murphy. Net acres are the portions of the gross acres attributable to Murphy’s interest.

໿

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain acreage held by the Company will expire in the next three years. 

Scheduled expirations in 2020 include 447 thousand net acres in Brunei, 117 thousand net acres in onshore Canada; 9 thousand net acres in onshore United States; and 5 thousand net acres in the Gulf of Mexico.

Acreage currently scheduled to expire in 2021 include 41 thousand net acres in onshore Canada; and 7 thousand acres in the Gulf of Mexico.

Scheduled expirations in 2022 include 75 thousand net acres in Brazil; 65 thousand acres in the Gulf of Mexico; and 8 thousand net acres in onshore Canada. 

As used in the three tables that follow, “gross” wells are the total wells in which all or part of the working interest is owned by Murphy, and “net” wells are the total of the Company’s fractional working interests in gross wells expressed as the equivalent 

8
number of wholly-owned wells. An “exploratory” well is drilled to find and produce crude oil or natural gas in an unproved area and includes delineation wells which target a new reservoir in a field known to be productive or to extend a known reservoir beyond the proved area. A “development” well is drilled within the proved area of an oil or natural gas reservoir that is known to be productive.

The following table shows the number of oil and natural gas wells producing or capable of producing at December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Murphy’s net wells drilled in the last three years are shown in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Murphy’s drilling wells in progress at December 31, 2019 are shown in the following table. The year-end well count includes wells awaiting various completion operations. Of the U.S. net wells included below, one is located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the others are located in the Eagle Ford Shale area of South Texas. Canada net wells included below are located in the Kaybob Duvernay area of Western Canada.

໿

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Discontinued Operations

Malaysia – In July 2019, the Company closed a divestiture of its two subsidiaries conducting Malaysian operations, Murphy Sabah Oil Co., Ltd. and Murphy Sarawak Oil Co., Ltd., in a transaction with PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP) which was effective January 1, 2019. Total cash consideration received upon closing was $2.0 billion. A gain on sale of $985.4 million was recorded as part of discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Company has accounted for and reported the Malaysia business as discontinued operations for all periods presented.

Refining and Marketing – The Company decommissioned the Milford Haven refinery units and completed the sale of its remaining downstream assets in the U.K. in 2015 for cash proceeds of $5.5 million. The Company has accounted for and reported this U.K. downstream business as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In October 2019, the current owner of the former Milford Haven Refinery issued a completion certificate acknowledging the Company had satisfactorily completed all obligations regarding the decommissioning and demolition of the facility’s refinery equipment. 

9
Environmental

Murphy’s businesses are subject to various international, national, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the manner in which the Company conducts its operations. The Company anticipates that these requirements will continue to become more complex and stringent in the future.

Further information on environmental matters and their impact on Murphy are contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 36 and 37.

Website Access to SEC Reports

Murphy Oil’s internet Website address is http://www.murphyoilcorp.com. The information contained on the Company’s Website is not part of this report on Form 10-K.

The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on Murphy’s Website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You may also access these reports at the SEC’s Website at http://www.sec.gov.

10
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS