Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to provide a narrative about our business from the perspective of our management. Our MD&A is presented in the following sections:

•Executive Overview;

•Operating Outlook;

•Results of Operations – E&P; 

•Results of Operations – Midstream;

•Results of Operations – Corporate;

•Liquidity and Capital Resources; and

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 

The accompanying consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, contain detailed information that should be read in conjunction with our MD&A.

For discussion related to changes in financial condition and results of operations for 2018 as compared with 2017, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2018 Form 10-K, which was filed with the SEC on February 19, 2019. 

39
Index to Financial Statements

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Industry Outlook

Commodity Prices The global oil and gas industry is cyclical, and commodity prices can be volatile. Global crude oil prices are driven by crude oil supply, which includes Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and non-OPEC producers, and global crude oil demand. The outlook for 2020 crude oil prices will continue to depend on supply and demand dynamics, as well as global geopolitical and security factors in crude oil-producing nations. Production cuts by OPEC and geopolitical factors in critical oil producing regions remain constructive for global crude oil prices. However, a weakening of crude oil demand amid signs of a potential softening in the global economy could result in lower prices. In addition, US and China trade tensions threaten further damage to global trade and economic growth and, consequently, crude oil demand. 

The US domestic natural gas market remains oversupplied as production has continued to grow due to drilling efficiencies, higher incremental volumes of associated gas from oil wells and de-bottlenecking of transportation infrastructure. Despite record domestic LNG exports and high natural gas fired electric generation, natural gas inventories are projected to remain at or slightly above historical five-year averages. As a result, natural gas prices traded within a narrow range in 2019, with an expectation to continue as such in 2020. Natural gas price differentials increased in the DJ Basin, while differentials in the Delaware Basin continue to be wide despite additional pipeline capacity from the Delaware Basin to Corpus Christi, Texas. Additional Delaware Basin natural gas pipeline expansions are targeted for in-service in late 2020, which are expected to decrease these differentials. 

US NGL prices are also suppressed amid increased production, high inventory levels, and downstream fractionation and export bottlenecks. As new processing and export facilities are brought online, NGL prices should benefit. During 2019, we added NGL commodity price hedges to our hedge portfolio.

The chart below shows the historical trends in benchmark prices for WTI crude oil, Brent crude oil, Mont Belvieu composite NGLs, and US Henry Hub natural gas. 

Our Eastern Mediterranean GSPAs generally provide for an initial base price subject to price indexation over the life of the contract and have a contractual floor, which provides some protection from price volatility. 

2019 Operating Focus 

During 2019, our activities were focused on positioning the Company for sustainable, long-term cash flows through the following initiatives:

Improving Cost Structure We focused on strong operational execution and cost control to improve our cost structure for current and future operations. We reduced capital spend, focusing on high-margin, high-return opportunities while emphasizing safety and protection of the environment. Capital efficiencies resulted in significantly lower well costs, driving overall capital spend nearly $240 million lower than expected for the year. Unit production expenses were also driven lower than expected, primarily due to US onshore cost initiatives. 

Improving US Onshore Takeaway Capacity We successfully leveraged significant pipeline expansion projects for increased flow assurance and improved crude oil netback prices. In the DJ Basin, we entered into a strategic relationship with Saddlehorn, acquiring additional capacity of long-term takeaway at lower cost. In the Delaware Basin, we exercised options to acquire ownership interests in EPIC Y-Grade and EPIC Crude Holdings, and partnered in the formation of the Delaware Crossing joint venture. Through these investments, we gained access to Gulf Coast pricing for certain of our Delaware Basin 

40
Index to Financial Statements

production when the EPIC Y-Grade Pipeline began interim crude oil service. We continue to negotiate other pipeline contracts for lower cost arrangements.

Leviathan Phase I Development Having commenced production from the Leviathan field on December 31, 2019, we are now ready for significant regional exports to begin. We expect Leviathan production and regional sales will result in a significant impact to our sustainable production profile, with material increases in sales volumes and cash flows in 2020. 

Progressing Natural Gas Monetization Offshore West Africa We continue to focus on progressing natural gas monetization opportunities through development of a regional natural gas hub offshore West Africa. During the year, we sanctioned the Alen Gas Monetization project, which will result in low-cost access to additional reserves and our entry into the global LNG markets in 2021.

Advancing Exploration Opportunities Although we have modified our exploration activity in the low commodity price environment, we continue to pursue opportunities that have low capital commitments, but which we perceive to have potentially high impact. During the year, we farmed-in a significant new opportunity offshore Colombia and progressed various exploration activities in support of future drilling efforts in both US onshore and international locations.

Completing Midstream Strategic Review  We conducted a strategic review of our Midstream segment and elected to retain and increase our ownership in Noble Midstream Partners. We concluded the review with the sale of substantially all of our remaining US onshore midstream interests and assets and our incentive distribution rights to Noble Midstream Partners for total consideration of $1.6 billion, including $670 million of cash and 38.5 million of newly issued Noble Midstream Partners common units. 

Maintaining Strong Balance Sheet We focused on maintaining our strong balance sheet and financial liquidity, which totaled almost $4.5 billion at December 31, 2019. During the year, we early redeemed certain senior notes, extending the average maturity of our total debt portfolio, which is approximately 16 years. We maintained our investment grade rating across all agencies while returning capital to investors through debt repayments and dividends. 

Advancing Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Initiatives We continued our focus on ESG initiatives by identifying opportunities to reduce environmental impact, improve safety, support the communities in which we operate through social investment, increase transparency, and the diversity of our Board of Directors. We also finished 2019 with a record-low total recordable incident rate in the US onshore. 

OPERATING OUTLOOK

Growing Long-Term Value  We believe the following guiding principles will contribute to growing long-term value:

•Execution of a disciplined capital allocation process by: 

◦designing a flexible investment program aligned with the current commodity price environment.

•Leveraging the benefits of our well-positioned and diversified portfolio, including:

◦exercising investment optionality and flexibility afforded by our assets, certain of which are held by production; and

◦continuing portfolio optimization actions to maximize strategic value.

•Enhancing capital efficiencies by:

◦utilizing our technical competencies and applying historical learnings from unconventional US shale plays to reduce US onshore exploration and development costs.

•Capitalizing on a currently low-cost offshore environment with execution of high-quality, long-cycle development projects, such as:

◦continuing development offshore Israel and monetizing natural gas offshore West Africa.

•Maintaining financial strength through:

◦focusing operational activities on high-margin, high-return assets; and

◦improving overall corporate returns.

•Commitment to people and communities in which we operate by:

◦being a safe and reliable operator;

◦complying with applicable air quality rules and environmental regulations; and

◦advancing ESG initiatives.

We believe our approach positions the Company for sustainability, operational efficiency, and long-term success throughout the oil and gas business cycle. Further, we expect our US onshore activity, combined with Leviathan natural gas sales and efforts towards Alen Gas Monetization, will position us for sustainable free cash flow generation in the future. However, if commodity prices are suppressed for an extended period of time, we could experience material negative impacts on our revenues, profitability, cash flows, liquidity and proved reserves, and, in response, we may consider reductions in our capital investment program or dividends, asset sales or actions to support our financial position. Our production, cash flows, and our stock price could decline as a result of these potential developments. See Item 1A. Risk Factors – Crude oil, NGL and natural gas price 

41
Index to Financial Statements

volatility, including a substantial or extended decline in the price of these commodities, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, and the price of our common stock.

2020 Organic Capital Investment Program Our 2020 organic capital investment program, which excludes Noble Midstream Partners and acquisition capital, is designed to deliver near and long-term value and is flexible in the current commodity price environment. The 2020 organic capital investment program is in the range of $1.6 to $1.8 billion. The 2020 organic capital investment program is approximately 25% below our 2019 organic capital expenditures, which reflects lower spend on the Leviathan field offshore Israel. Approximately 75% of the 2020 organic capital budget is allocated to US onshore development, primarily in the DJ and Delaware Basins, with the remainder allocated to progressing the Alen Gas Monetization in West Africa, expanding gas deliverability in Israel and costs for drilling an exploratory well offshore Colombia. 

We plan to fund our capital investment program with cash flows from operations, cash on hand, proceeds from divestments of non-strategic assets, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, and/or other sources of funding. See Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources and Uses of Liquidity. 

Our 2020 production target is in the range of 385 MBoe/d to 405 MBoe/d. In our US onshore business, we expect relatively flat production compared to 2019, with an increase in DJ and Delaware Basin production offset by reductions in the Eagle Ford Shale. We expect to have higher oil volumes in 2020 compared to 2019.

Potential for Future Impairments We have had in the past, and may incur in the future, impairments of proved and unproved properties. Our impairment assessment as of December 31, 2019 indicated that the carrying amounts of our DJ Basin and Delaware Basin properties were not impaired. However, we believe our Delaware Basin properties, in particular, may be at risk for future impairment. Our Delaware Basin properties have significant book value associated with proved reserves and unproved resources, which were acquired primarily through corporate acquisitions. Through acquisition accounting, acquired asset values are recorded at their estimated fair market values at the time of closing. In 2017, commodity prices, specifically those for domestic NGLs and natural gas, were significantly higher when compared to the current environment. 

We believe that it is reasonably likely an impairment could be triggered if there is a decrease in forward commodity price assumptions, a widening of basis differentials, material changes to development plans or an increase in operating or abandonment costs, among other factors. The variable which generates the most significant change in undiscounted future net cash flows is generally the forward commodity price outlook. For purposes of impairment assessment, where contractual pricing is not applicable, our current assumption is based on a five-year strip price for crude oil and natural gas, with prices subsequent to the fifth year held constant. Should our assumptions regarding forward commodity prices decline 5% or more beyond that used as of December 31, 2019, with all other assumptions unchanged, our Delaware Basin properties would be at risk for impairment. As of December 31, 2019, the carrying amount of our Delaware Basin properties was $5.5 billion, of which $3.6 billion was attributable to proved properties, including related Midstream segment assets, with $1.9 billion attributable to unproved properties. 

In addition, an extended commodity price downturn could result in the impairment of other proved or unproved properties or long-lived assets, including equity method investments, intangible assets, goodwill and/or right-of-use assets. A future impairment of property or other long-lived asset could have a significant impact on our deferred tax asset and liability balance, and potentially cause us to establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets associated with domestic net operating loss carryforwards, which would result in a corresponding increase in income tax expense.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors – Crude oil, NGL and natural gas price volatility, including a substantial or extended decline in the price of these commodities, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, and the price of our common stock.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – E&P

2019 Significant E&P Highlights:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•reduced total production expense per BOE by 3% as compared to 2018;

•exceeded 2 Tcf, gross, of natural gas produced from the Tamar field since commencement of operations; 

•commenced production from the Leviathan field in December 2019;

•invested in the EMG Pipeline, through our affiliate, EMED Pipeline B.V., enabling future flow of natural gas production from offshore Israel to customers in Egypt;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•drilled the Aseng 6P well, offshore Equatorial Guinea, and commenced production in fourth quarter 2019; and

•sanctioned the Alen Gas Monetization project, offshore Equatorial Guinea.

42
Index to Financial Statements

Following is a summarized statement of operations for our E&P business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures. 

(2) See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 10. Impairments.

Average Oil, NGL and Gas Sales Volumes and Prices  Average daily sales volumes from our share of production and average realized sales prices were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Natural gas from the Alba field is sold under contract for $0.25 per MMBtu to a methanol plant, an LPG plant, an LNG plant and a power generation plant. The methanol and LPG plants are owned by affiliated entities accounted for under the equity method. See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties – Delivery Commitments – West Africa Agreements.

(2) Volumes represent sales of condensate and LPG from the LPG plant in Equatorial Guinea. See Income from Equity Method Investments and Other.

(3) Includes 7 MBoe/d for 2018 related to Gulf of Mexico assets sold in second quarter 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures.

43
Index to Financial Statements

An analysis of revenues from sales of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Changes exclude impacts of commodity derivative instruments. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 14. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.

Crude Oil and Condensate Sales Revenues Revenues from crude oil and condensate sales decreased in 2019 as compared with 2018 due to the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•reduction in sales volumes of 5 MBbl/d due to the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in second quarter 2018; and

•lower offshore West Africa sales volumes of 3 MBbl/d due to timing of liftings and natural field decline;

partially offset by:

•higher US onshore sales volumes of 11 MBbl/d primarily due to an increase in development activity in the DJ and Delaware Basins.

NGL Sales Revenues  Revenues from NGL sales decreased in 2019 as compared with 2018 due to the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•lower Eagle Ford Shale sales volumes of 6 MBbl/d due to reduced activity and natural field decline;

partially offset by:

•higher sales volumes of 12 MBbl/d in the DJ and Delaware Basins due to an increase in development activities.

Natural Gas Sales Revenues  Revenues from natural gas sales decreased in 2019 as compared with 2018 due to the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•lower Eagle Ford Shale sales volumes of 41 MMcf/d due to reduced activity and natural field decline;

•lower West Africa sales volumes of 28 MMcf/d due to natural field decline and planned maintenance at onshore facilities during first quarter 2019, which required shut-in for a portion of the period; and

•lower Israel sales volumes of 14 MMcf/d primarily due to the sale of a 7.5% interest in the Tamar field in March 2018;

partially offset by:

•higher sales volumes of 91 MMcf/d in the DJ and Delaware Basins due to an increase in development activity.

Sales and Cost of Purchased Oil and Gas  Sales and cost of purchased oil and gas increased in 2019 as compared with 2018 as we engaged in a full year of third-party sales and purchases of crude oil in the DJ Basin in 2019 compared with only fourth quarter sales and purchases in 2018. We enter into these arrangements for flow assurance on pipelines used to deliver our production to market and to cover shortfalls in equity production.

Income from Equity Method Investments and Other  Our share of operations of equity method investments were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44
Index to Financial Statements

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income from equity method investments decreased for 2019 as compared with 2018 due to the following:

•decrease in net income from AMPCO and affiliates primarily due to lower realized methanol prices; and 

•decrease in net income from Alba Plant primarily due to lower realized LPG prices. 

Production Expense Components of production expense were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and expenses attributable to equity method investments.

(2) US production expense includes charges from our midstream operations that are eliminated on a consolidated basis. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 3. Segment Information. 

Production expense decreased in 2019 as compared with 2018 primarily due to the following:

•decrease in US lease operating expense primarily due to the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets and cost reduction efforts, notably workover reductions and compression optimization, in the US onshore basins; and

•decrease in other royalty expense due to lower commodity prices;

•decrease in West Africa lease operating expense due to cost reduction efforts across all assets; and

•decrease in production and ad valorem taxes due to production tax refunds; 

partially offset by:

•increase in US gathering, transportation and processing (GTP) expense primarily due to increased development activity in the DJ Basin and higher-cost Delaware Basin; and

•increase in Eastern Mediterranean lease operating expense due to planned maintenance activities. 

The decrease in the unit rate per BOE for 2019 compared to 2018 is primarily due to cost reduction efforts in US onshore basins and West Africa, partially offset by an increase in GTP expense and an increase in volumes from higher-cost areas within US onshore.

Exploration Expense  The increase in exploration expense for 2019 is primarily due to the write-off of $100 million of Leviathan Deep exploratory well costs. This increase was partially offset by reductions in lease rentals and staff expense as compared with 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 6. Capitalized Exploratory Well Costs and Undeveloped Leasehold Costs.

45
Index to Financial Statements

Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization (DD&A) Expense DD&A expense was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2) Consolidated rates exclude sales volumes and expenses attributable to equity method investments.

Total DD&A expense increased in 2019 as compared with 2018 primarily due to the following:

•capital investment and development activities in the DJ and Delaware Basins resulting in higher sales volumes; and

•increase in Eastern Mediterranean primarily due to the retirement of certain capital assets resulting in accelerated depreciation;

partially offset by:

•decrease resulting from the sale of our Gulf of Mexico assets in second quarter 2018; and

•reduced sales volumes in West Africa, as noted above, from natural field decline.

The unit rate per BOE for 2019 increased as compared with 2018 due to increased development activity in the higher cost oil-rich Delaware Basin and the 2018 sale of lower-cost Tamar reserves, which increased the overall unit rate per BOE. The increase in unit rate is partially offset by the sale of higher-cost production from the Gulf of Mexico assets in second quarter 2018.

Loss (Gain) on Commodity Derivative Instruments Commodity derivative activity was as follows:

For 2019, the loss on commodity derivative instruments was due to the following:

•net cash receipt of $32 million; and

•net non-cash decrease of $175 million in the fair value of our net commodity derivative liability, primarily driven by increases in the forward commodity price curve for crude oil. 

For 2018, gain on commodity derivative instruments included:

•net cash payment of $161 million; and

•net non-cash increase of $224 million in the fair value of our net commodity derivative asset, primarily driven by decreases in the forward commodity price curve for crude oil.

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 14. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – MIDSTREAM 

2019 Significant Midstream Highlights:

•sold substantially all of our US onshore midstream interests and assets and our incentive distribution rights to Noble Midstream Partners for total consideration of $1.6 billion; 

•expanded our long-haul business by developing strategic relationships in the Delaware Basin, exercising investment options in EPIC Y-Grade and EPIC Crude Holdings, and forming the Delaware Crossing crude oil pipeline joint venture, with total equity contributions of approximately $590 million; and

•secured long-term takeaway at a lower cost in the DJ Basin through a strategic relationship with Saddlehorn.

Following is a summarized statement of operations for the Midstream segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46
Index to Financial Statements

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Midstream Services Revenues - Third Party The amount of revenue generated by the Midstream segment depends primarily on the volumes of crude oil, natural gas and water for which services are provided to dedicated acreage for our E&P business and to third-party customers. These volumes are affected by the level of drilling and completion activity and by changes in the supply of, and demand for, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas in the markets served directly or indirectly by our midstream assets.

Midstream segment services revenues for 2019 increased $16 million as compared with 2018 primarily due to increases in crude oil, natural gas and produced water gathering services and fresh water delivery. The increases were due primarily to higher Delaware Basin throughput volumes, a full year of services in the Mustang IDP and a full year of services related to the Black Diamond System, which was acquired in first quarter 2018.

Sales and Cost of Purchased Oil and Gas Sales and cost of purchased oil and gas for 2019 increased $48 million as compared with 2018 due to an increase in throughput volumes driven by additional well connections. 

(Loss) Income from Equity Method Investments The 2019 amount decreased as compared to 2018 due to operating costs incurred by Noble Midstream Partners' equity method investments prior to commencement of full service operations, as well as a decrease in income of $24 million due to the sale of our investments in CONE Gathering LLC and CNX Midstream Partners LP (NYSE: CNXM) in 2018.

Operating Costs and Expenses Total expense for 2019 increased by $22 million as compared with 2018 due to an increase in gathering systems operating expense associated with the Delaware Basin CGFs that were completed in 2018, additional expenses associated with the Black Diamond System and expenses associated with the commencement of gathering services in the Mustang IDP in 2018. 

DD&A Expense  DD&A expense for 2019 increased by $17 million as compared with 2018 primarily due to certain assets being placed in service throughout 2018, including the Mustang IDP gathering system, the Delaware Basin CGFs, and additional Black Diamond assets. In addition, DD&A expense includes a full year of amortization related to intangible assets acquired in the Saddle Butte acquisition.

Gain on Divestitures, Net See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures. 

Asset Impairments See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 10. Impairments. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – CORPORATE

Interest expenses and other debt-related costs, headquarters depreciation, corporate G&A expenses, exit costs and certain other costs associated with mitigating the effects of our retained Marcellus Shale transportation agreements are recorded at the Corporate level.

Transportation Exit Cost Revenues and expenses associated with retained Marcellus Shale firm transportation contracts were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Relates to third-party mitigation activities we engage in to utilize a portion of our Marcellus Shale transportation commitments. Cost of purchased gas includes utilized and unutilized transportation expense. 

(2) Includes exit costs related to future commitments to a third-party resulting from a permanent capacity assignment. 

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 11. Exit Cost – Transportation Commitments. 

47
Index to Financial Statements

General and Administrative Expense G&A expense was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and expenses attributable to equity method investments.

The 2019 increase to G&A is primarily due to incentive compensation awards, which reflected strong operating performance and major project execution. The increase in the unit rate per BOE for 2019 as compared with 2018 was due to the increase in G&A expense, partially offset by the increase in total sales volumes. 

G&A expense is impacted by the number of stock-based awards, the market price of our common stock and price volatility which may result in a higher or lower fair value of stock-based awards as calculated using various valuation models. G&A expense included stock-based compensation expense of $59 million in 2019 and $54 million in 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16. Stock-Based and Other Compensation Plans.

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt or Facility See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt. 

Interest Expense and Capitalized Interest Interest expense and capitalized interest were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Consolidated unit rates exclude sales volumes and expenses attributable to equity method investments.

Interest expense for 2019 increased slightly as compared with 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt. Capitalized interest for 2019 increased as compared with 2018 primarily due to higher work in progress amounts related to Leviathan development and additions to our Midstream segment equity method investments engaged in construction activities. 

The unit rate per BOE for 2019 decreased as compared with 2018, primarily due to the reduction in net interest expense and the increase in total sales volumes.

Income Taxes See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 13. Income Taxes.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Capital Structure/Financing Strategy

In seeking to effectively fund development and monetize our discovered hydrocarbons, we employ a capital structure and financing strategy designed to provide sufficient liquidity throughout commodity price cycles, including a sustained period of low prices. We strive to retain the ability to fund long cycle, multi-year, capital intensive development projects throughout a range of scenarios, while also funding a continuing exploration program and maintaining capacity to capitalize on financially attractive merger and acquisition opportunities. We endeavor to maintain a strong balance sheet and an investment grade debt rating in service of these objectives. 

We strive to maintain a minimum liquidity level to address volatility and risk. Our sources of liquidity are primarily cash flows from operations, cash on hand, proceeds from divestitures of properties and other investments, commercial paper borrowings and available borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facilities (defined below). We occasionally access the capital markets to ensure adequate liquidity exists in the form of unutilized capacity under our Revolving Credit Facilities or to refinance scheduled debt maturities. 

We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding senior notes through cash purchases in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. 

We also evaluate potential strategic farm-out arrangements of our working interests for reimbursement of our capital spending. We periodically consider repatriations of foreign cash to increase our financial flexibility and fund our capital investment program. Additionally, we enter into commodity price hedging arrangements in an effort to mitigate the effects of commodity price volatility and enhance the predictability of cash flows relating to the marketing of a portion of our crude oil and natural gas production. 

48
Index to Financial Statements

In 2019, we funded our capital investment program with cash flows from operations, cash on hand, commercial paper borrowings, proceeds from divestments of non-strategic assets, proceeds from the Midstream segment asset divestiture to Noble Midstream Partners, and other sources of funding. During the year, we did not repurchase any shares of Noble Energy common stock under the Board of Directors-authorized $750 million share repurchase program. As a result of our financing activities, we ended 2019 with almost $4.5 billion in liquidity, including $4.0 billion of availability under our Noble Energy Revolving Credit Facility. 

2019 Significant Financing Highlights

•initiated a commercial paper program;

•issued and redeemed notes, lowering interest expense and extending debt maturities; 

•established a new Noble Midstream Partners term loan;

•increased the Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility capacity to almost $1.2 billion;

•secured a $200 million preferred equity commitment at Noble Midstream Partners; and

•completed our midstream asset sale and simplification to Noble Midstream Partners.

Available Liquidity  

Our operating cash flows are a significant source of liquidity. Additional sources of funding were available through debt financing activities, as described above. Overall, we expect to support our 2020 capital investment program with cash flows from operations, cash on hand, proceeds from divestments of non-strategic assets, issuances of commercial paper, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facilities, and/or other sources of funding.

We believe our current liquidity level and balance sheet, along with our ability to access the capital markets, provide flexibility and that we are well-positioned to fund our business throughout the commodity price cycle. We will continue to evaluate the commodity price environment and our level of capital spending throughout 2020. A downgrade below our current investment grade rating could trigger requirements to post collateral as financial assurance of performance under certain contractual arrangements. See Item 1A. Risk Factors – Indebtedness may limit our liquidity and financial flexibility.

The table below summarizes our cash, debt balances and available liquidity. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Total cash includes $3 million of restricted cash at December 31, 2018. 

(2) Excludes amounts available to be borrowed under the Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility, which is not available to Noble Energy for general corporate purposes. 

(3) Total debt excludes unamortized debt discount/premium and debt issuance costs. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt

(4) We define our ratio of debt-to-book capital as total debt divided by the sum of total debt plus Noble Energy's share of equity. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents  We had approximately $484 million in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019, $383 million of which is attributable to our foreign subsidiaries. 

Revolving Credit Facilities Noble Energy's $4.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolving Credit Facility) and Noble Midstream Services' revolving credit facility (Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility), which was increased from $800 million to almost $1.2 billion in fourth quarter 2019, both mature in 2023. These facilities are used to fund capital investment programs and acquisitions and may periodically provide amounts for working capital purposes. At December 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under Noble Energy's Revolving Credit Facility, and no commercial paper borrowings were outstanding, leaving the entire $4.0 billion available for borrowing. At December 31, 2019, $595 million was outstanding under the Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility, leaving $555 million of remaining availability. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt.

49
Index to Financial Statements

Commercial Paper Program Supported by our investment grade credit rating, in 2019 we established a commercial paper program to provide for short-term funding needs. The program allows for Noble to issue a maximum of $4.0 billion of unsecured commercial paper notes, supported by Noble Energy’s Revolving Credit Facility. The commercial paper program was a significant source of liquidity during 2019. All amounts outstanding were repaid prior to December 31, 2019. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt.

Senior Note Issuance and Redemption  In October 2019, we issued $500 million of 3.25% senior notes due October 15, 2029 and $500 million of 4.20% senior notes due October 15, 2049. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund the early tender offer and redemption of our $1.0 billion 4.15% notes due December 15, 2021. As a result, we paid a premium of $44 million on the extinguishment of debt and recognized a loss in fourth quarter 2019. The transactions resulted in reduced future interest costs and extended debt maturity dates. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt.

Noble Midstream Services 2019 Term Loan Credit Facility In August 2019, Noble Midstream Services entered into a term loan agreement, which provides for a three-year senior unsecured term loan credit facility, due August 23, 2022 (2019 Noble Midstream Services Term Loan Credit Facility), that permits aggregate borrowings of up to $400 million. Proceeds from the term loan were primarily used to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings under the Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt.

Noble Midstream Services 2018 Term Loan Credit Facility In July 2018, Noble Midstream Services entered into a term loan agreement, which provides for a three-year senior unsecured term loan credit facility, due July 31, 2021 (2018 Noble Midstream Services Term Loan Credit Facility), that permits aggregate borrowings of up to $500 million. As of December 31, 2019, $500 million was outstanding under this facility, which was used to repay amounts outstanding under the Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt.

Mezzanine Equity Commitment In March 2019, Noble Midstream Partners obtained a $200 million preferred equity commitment. $100 million of the commitment funded immediately and the remaining $100 million is available for funding until March 2020, subject to certain conditions precedent. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

Asset Sale to Noble Midstream Partners  We received approximately $1.6 billion in consideration from the sale of substantially all of our remaining midstream interests and assets to Noble Midstream Partners. Consideration included approximately $670 million in cash, of which $420 million was funded by the Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility and approximately $250 million was funded by a private placement of Noble Midstream Partners common units. See Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures.

Dividends We funded a 9% dividend increase in 2019. See Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Cash Flows

The following table summarizes our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities  The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2019 compared with 2018 was primarily driven by a decrease in revenues resulting from lower commodity prices, partially offset by increases in sales volumes and lower production costs attributable to cost saving initiatives. In addition, we received cash settlements of commodity derivative instruments for $32 million in 2019, compared with cash payments of $161 million in 2018 and we made cash interest payments related to outstanding debt of $310 million in 2019 compared with $343 million in 2018. 

Investing Activities  Increases in cash used in investing activities primarily related to funding of new equity method investments of $799 million in 2019 compared with zero in 2018 and reduced divestiture activity resulting in proceeds from divestitures of $173 million in 2019 compared with $2.0 billion in 2018. These amounts were partially offset by cash used in acquisitions of $653 million in 2018, compared to none in 2019, as well as a $755 million decrease in spending on property, plant and equipment driven by our focus on improving cost structure and capital efficiencies during 2019, lower investment in 

50
Index to Financial Statements

midstream infrastructure, and the timing of Leviathan field development costs, which were lower in 2019 than the peak year of capital investment in 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5. Equity Method Investments. 

Financing Activities  Increases in cash provided by financing activities include net borrowings of $535 million in 2019 on the Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility, compared with net repayments of $25 million in 2018, and having no net repayments under the Revolving Credit Facility in 2019 compared with $230 million in 2018. Additionally, repayments of senior notes, net of proceeds from senior note issuances, was $53 million in 2019 compared with $384 million of repayments in 2018. In 2019, Noble Midstream Partners received net proceeds of $243 million from the issuance of Noble Midstream Partners common units, which was used to fund Noble Midstream Partners' acquisition of our remaining midstream assets. We did not repurchase shares under our share repurchase program in 2019, compared with spending of $295 million in 2018. In 2019, we received contributions from noncontrolling interest owners of $37 million compared with $353 million in 2018. 

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 

Acquisition and Capital Expenditures

Our expenditures (on an accrual basis) were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts relate to US onshore undeveloped leasehold activity.

(2) Amounts include capitalized interest that will be amortized into earnings over the useful life of the related assets.

Development costs decreased in 2019 as compared with 2018 due to our focus on US onshore capital efficiencies and near-term completion of the Leviathan development activities. Costs include approximately $1.6 billion for US onshore and $482 million for Eastern Mediterranean, primarily related to Leviathan.

Midstream costs incurred in 2018 primarily relate to constructing the Mustang IDP gathering system and Delaware Basin CGFs and were higher than 2019 costs which included expansion of existing infrastructure. In addition, midstream expenditures for 2018 included $206 million related to the Saddle Butte acquisition.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We may enter into off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations. As of December 31, 2019, material off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions that we have entered into included transportation and gathering agreements, undrawn letters of credit and guarantees, all of which are customary in the oil and gas industry (see cross references to the Notes to the Financial Statements in the table below). Other than these aforementioned arrangements, we have no transactions, arrangements or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or availability of or requirements for capital resources. See Contractual Obligations, below.

51
Index to Financial Statements

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes certain contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets and/or disclosed in the accompanying notes. Unless otherwise noted, all amounts are undiscounted and are net to our interest.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)References are to the Notes accompanying Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

(2) Long-term debt excludes unamortized discounts, premiums, debt issuance costs and finance lease obligations. 

(3) Interest payments and commitment fees are based on the total debt balance, scheduled maturities and interest rates in effect at December 31, 2019. 

(4) Annual lease payments exclude regular maintenance and operational costs. 

(5) Amount includes firm transportation exit cost accruals resulting from certain permanent capacity assignments. 

(6) Purchase and service obligations represent contractual agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed and minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.

(7) The table excludes deferred compensation liabilities of $133 million as specific payment dates are unknown. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16. Stock-Based and Other Compensation Plans. 

(8) AROs are discounted.

(9) Amount represents commodity derivative instruments that were in a net payable position with the counterparty at December 31, 2019. 

Additional contractual commitments are as follows:

Exploration Commitments  The terms of some of our PSCs, licenses or concession agreements may require us to conduct certain exploration activities, including drilling one or more exploratory wells or acquiring seismic data, within specific time periods. These obligations can extend over several years, and failure to conduct such exploration activities within the prescribed periods could lead to loss of leases or exploration rights and/or penalty payments. 

Continuous Development Obligations Certain of our Delaware Basin properties are held through continuous development obligations. Therefore, we are contractually obligated to fund a level of development activity in these areas which could be substantial, or exercise options with land owners to extend leases. Failure to meet these obligations may result in the loss of leases.

Mezzanine Equity Commitment Preferred equity is perpetual and has a 6.5% annual dividend rate. The preferred equity partner can request redemption at a pre-determined base return following the later of the sixth anniversary of the preferred equity closing in March 2019 or the fifth anniversary of the completion date of the EPIC Crude Oil Pipeline. 

OIL Contingency As of December 31, 2019, approximately $22 million was accrued as a theoretical withdrawal premium associated with our membership in OIL. OIL is a mutual insurance company which insures specific property, pollution liability and other catastrophic risks. As part of our membership, we are contractually committed to pay termination fees should we elect to withdraw from OIL. We do not anticipate withdrawing from OIL and the potential termination fee is calculated annually based on OIL’s past losses.

Letters of Credit  In the ordinary course of business, we maintain letters of credit and bank guarantees with a variety of banks in support of certain performance obligations of our subsidiaries. Outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees, including Noble Midstream Partners, totaled approximately $132 million at December 31, 2019.

52
Index to Financial Statements

Ratings Triggers We do not have triggers on any of our corporate debt that would cause an event of default in the case of a downgrade of our credit rating. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - Indebtedness may limit our liquidity and financial flexibility.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires our management to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. When alternatives exist among various accounting methods, the choice of accounting method can have a significant impact on reported amounts. The following is a discussion of the accounting policies, estimates and judgments which management believes are most significant in the application of US GAAP used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.

Reserves

Description  We estimate proved oil and gas reserves according to the definition of proved reserves provided by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Reserves estimates have a significant impact on our financial statements as they are used as an input in the calculation of DD&A expense and in impairment assessments for crude oil and natural gas properties.

Judgment and Uncertainties  The accuracy of any reserves estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Commodity prices and development and production costs are factors used in determining reserves economics and reserves estimates. As a result, our reserves estimates will change in the future due to commodity price volatility and cost changes, as well as due to new information obtained from development drilling and production history.

Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions  Our reserves estimates are based on year end cost, development, and production data and on historical 12-month average commodity price data. Results of drilling, testing, and production subsequent to the date of the estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Accordingly, reserves estimates are often different from the quantities of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas that are ultimately recovered due to reservoir performance and new geological and geophysical data. Additionally, increases in future drilling, development, production and abandonment costs and changes in commodity prices may result in future revisions to our reserves.

Estimates of proved crude oil, NGL and natural gas reserves significantly affect our DD&A expense. For example, if estimates of proved reserves decline, the DD&A rate will increase, resulting in a decrease in net income. For 2019, a 10% reduction in estimates of proved reserves across all properties would have increased DD&A expense by approximately $229 million. 

A decline in estimates of proved reserves could also cause us to perform an impairment analysis to determine if the carrying amount of crude oil and natural gas properties exceeds fair value and could result in an impairment charge, which would reduce earnings. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited).

Oil and Gas Properties – Successful Efforts Method of Accounting

Description  We account for crude oil and natural gas properties under the successful efforts method of accounting which results in the capitalization of costs directly related to specific oil and gas reserves when results are positive and expensing of certain costs, including geological and geophysical costs and delay rentals, during the periods the costs are incurred, and, in the case of dry hole costs, in the period the well is deemed non-commercial.

The alternative method of accounting for crude oil and natural gas properties is the full cost method under which geological and geophysical costs, exploratory dry holes and delay rentals are capitalized as assets and charged to earnings in future periods as a component of DD&A expense. In addition, capitalized costs are accumulated in pools on a country-by-country basis. DD&A is computed on a country-by-country basis, and capitalized costs are limited on the same basis through the application of a ceiling test. 

Judgment and Uncertainties  The determination of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties includes assessment of impairment and the calculation of DD&A expense. We assess our oil and gas properties for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Our assessment involves a high degree of estimation uncertainty as it requires us to make assumptions and apply judgment to estimate future net undiscounted cash flows related to proved reserves. Such assumptions include commodity prices, capital spending, production and abandonment costs and reservoir data. In cases where unproved reserve cash flows are utilized to assess properties for impairment, we apply the same pricing, cost and future production assumptions. We also apply significant judgment in assessing entity-specific assumptions and assumptions relating, but not limited to, potential impacts of the political and regulatory climate on future development activity, current exploration plans, favorable or unfavorable exploration activity on the property being evaluated and/or adjacent properties, our geologists' evaluation of the property, and the remaining lease term of the property. Negative revisions in estimates of reserves quantities, expectations of decreasing commodity prices, or rising 

53
Index to Financial Statements

operating or development costs could result in a reduction in undiscounted future cash flows, potentially indicating an impairment.

An impairment is indicated if, as a result of the assessment, an asset's carrying value exceeds its future net undiscounted cash flows. Once an impairment is indicated, we estimate the asset's fair value as the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. In the absence of comparable market data, fair value is estimated using a discounted net cash flow model. Cash flows are discounted using a risk-adjusted rate and compared to the carrying value in determining the amount of impairment expense to record. Estimated future cash flows are based on management’s expectations for the future and include estimates of crude oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and future commodity prices, revenues and operating and development costs. 

For the purpose of impairment assessment as of December 31, 2019, the undiscounted future net cash flows included five-year strip prices for crude oil and natural gas, with prices subsequent to the fifth year held constant as the benchmark price, unless contractual arrangements designated the price to be used. Capital and operating costs were estimated assuming 0% escalation. As a result of the assessment, an impairment of our Eagle Ford Shale assets was indicated. We then estimated the fair value of the assets and reduced the carrying value of the assets to fair value, resulting in impairment expense of $1.2 billion. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 10. Impairments.

For capitalized exploratory well costs, significant judgment is required in order to determine whether sufficient progress has been made in assessing the reserves and the economic and operational viability of a project in order to continue capitalization of such costs. Such assessment requires consideration of the following factors: commitment of project personnel, costs incurred to assess reserves and potential development, progress of economic, legal, political and environmental aspects of potential development, existence or active negotiations of agreements with governments and venture partners or sales contracts with customers, identification of existing transportation and other infrastructure that is or will be available for the project and other factors. Consideration of these factors requires us to make assumptions and apply judgment to assess industry and economic conditions, as well as our future drilling and development plans. Future changes in our exploratory and drilling activities or economic conditions may result in the determination not to pursue certain projects, resulting in future write-offs of the capitalized exploratory well costs. 

Calculation of unit-of-production rates for DD&A purposes is performed on a field-by-field basis and includes estimation of the period-end reserves base and production data for each respective field, including estimates of production for non-operated properties. 

Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions  At year end, the net book value of our unproved properties includes significant amounts allocated in previous business combinations or acquisitions. Unfavorable revisions to our reserves and/or changes in our exploration and development plans or the economic, political or regulatory environment in areas where we operate, or changes in the availability of funds for future activities may result in abandonment and impairment of unproved leases and oil and gas properties. Unfavorable changes in pricing and cost assumptions in the future may result in negative revisions to proved and/or unproved reserves and associated cash flows, causing us to record impairment of proved and/or unproved oil and gas properties. An impairment of a proved or unproved property could result in a significant decrease in earnings.

If management determines that future appraisal drilling or development activities are unlikely to occur, associated suspended exploratory well costs would be charged to exploration expense in future periods, resulting in a decrease in earnings. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 6. Capitalized Exploratory Well Costs and Undeveloped Leasehold Costs.

Furthermore, a change in groupings of our oil and gas properties for the purpose of the DD&A calculation and impairment review could affect the calculation of unit-of-production rates, DD&A expense and determination of impairment.

Exit Costs 

Description Our consolidated balance sheets include accrued exit cost liabilities relating to retained Marcellus Shale natural gas firm transportation contracts. 

Judgment and Uncertainties We are required to make significant judgments and estimates regarding the timing and amount of recognition of exit cost liabilities, taking into consideration current commercialization activities related to the retained firm transportation contracts and/or the potential occurrence of a cease-use date. We must consider, among other factors, the status of negotiations with counterparties regarding permanent assignment or capacity release of our contract commitments and the likelihood of capacity utilization through purchase of third-party natural gas, which reduces unutilized volume commitments.

Additionally, any subsequent changes in interest rates and/or credit risk will affect the discount rate used to calculate the present value of expected future cash flows associated with our existing contract commitments. There are inherent uncertainties surrounding the recording of exit cost liabilities, and, in future periods, a number of factors could significantly change our estimate of such obligations or result in recognition of additional liability.

54
Index to Financial Statements

Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Although we based the initial fair value estimate of our accrued exit cost liabilities on assumptions we believed to be reasonable, those assumptions were inherently unpredictable and uncertain. Changes in assumptions, such as a reduced likelihood of capacity utilization through purchase of third-party natural gas, could have resulted in a higher exit cost accrual, higher current period expense, and lower future expense. For example, as of December 31, 2019, we have a significant remaining financial commitment associated with Marcellus Shale retained contracts. We cannot guarantee that our current commercialization efforts for these contracts will be successful, and, in the future, we may recognize substantial future liabilities, at fair value, for the net amount of the estimated remaining commitments under these contracts, with the offsetting charge reducing our earnings. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 11. Exit Cost – Transportation Commitments.

Income Tax Expense and Deferred Tax Assets

Description Our consolidated balance sheets include deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to temporary differences, operating losses, and tax-credit carryforwards. Valuation allowances may reduce the deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

Judgment and Uncertainties   Estimates of amounts of income tax to be recorded involve interpretation of complex tax laws as well as assessment of the effects of foreign taxes on domestic taxes, and estimates regarding the timing and amounts of future repatriation of earnings from controlled foreign corporations.

In determining whether a valuation allowance is required for our deferred tax asset balances, we consider all available evidence (both positive and negative) including, among other factors, current financial position, results of operations, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and new tax legislation. Significant judgment is involved in this determination as we are required to make assumptions about future commodity prices, projected production rates, timing of development activities, profitability of future business strategies and forecasted economics in the oil and gas industry. Judgment is also required in considering the relative weight of negative and positive evidence. Additionally, changes in the effective tax rate resulting from changes in tax law and our level of earnings may limit utilization of deferred tax assets and will affect valuation of deferred tax balances in the future.

Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions  We continue to monitor facts and circumstances in the reassessment of the likelihood that operating loss carryforwards, credits and other deferred tax assets will be utilized prior to their expiration. Changes to our current financial position, results of operations, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and/or new tax legislation may be deemed significant enough to necessitate a change to our deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future, in which case the increases or decreases could significantly impact net income through offsetting changes in income tax expense. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 13. Income Taxes.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk