Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Commodity Price Risk

We are exposed to market risk in the normal course of business operations, and the volatility of commodity prices continues to impact the oil and gas industry. 

Derivative Instruments Held for Non-Trading Purposes Due to commodity price volatility, we may use derivative instruments as a means of managing our exposure to price changes. At December 31, 2019, we had various open commodity derivative instruments. Changes in the fair value of commodity derivative instruments are reported in earnings in the period in which they occur. Our open commodity derivative instruments were in a net liability position with a fair value of $22 million. Based on the December 31, 2019 published commodity futures price curves for the underlying commodities, a hypothetical price increase of 10% per Bbl for both crude oil and NGLs and 10% per MMBtu for natural gas would increase the fair value of our net commodity derivative liability by approximately $121 million. 

Even with certain hedging arrangements in place to mitigate the effect of commodity price volatility, our 2020 revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if commodity prices were to decline. See Item 1A. Risk Factors – Commodity hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or fail to fully protect us from declines in commodity prices and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 14. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.

Interest Rate Risk

Changes in interest rates affect the amount of interest we pay on certain of our borrowings. Borrowings under our commercial paper program, the Revolving Credit Facility, Noble Midstream Services Revolving Credit Facility and Noble Midstream Services Term Loan Credit Facilities, which as of December 31, 2019 total $1.5 billion and have a weighted average interest rate of 2.92%, are subject to variable interest rates which expose us to the risk of earnings or cash flow loss due to potential increases in market interest rates. A change in the interest rate applicable to amounts, if any, related to these debt agreements would have has a de minimis impact on our consolidated net loss. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8. Long-Term Debt.

55
Index to Financial Statements

While we currently have no interest rate derivative instruments as of December 31, 2019, we may invest in such instruments in the future in order to mitigate interest rate risk. 

LIBOR Transition London Inter-bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) is a commonly used indicative measure of the average interest rate at which major global banks could borrow from one another. Certain of our commercial agreements use LIBOR as a “benchmark” or “reference rate” for various commercial terms. It is currently expected that the LIBOR benchmark will be discontinued after 2021. We are currently reviewing our contracts that extend past 2021 to determine their exposure to LIBOR, some of which contain an existing LIBOR alternative. Where there is not an alternative, we expect to replace the LIBOR benchmark with an alternative reference rate such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate. We do not expect the transition to an alternative rate to have a significant impact on our business, operations or liquidity.

Foreign Currency Risk

The US dollar is considered the functional currency for each of our international operations. Substantially all of our international crude oil, NGL and natural gas production is sold pursuant to US dollar denominated contracts. Transactions, such as operating costs and administrative expenses that are paid in a foreign currency, are remeasured into US dollars and recorded in the financial statements at prevailing currency exchange rates. Certain monetary assets and liabilities, for example certain local working capital items, are denominated in a foreign currency and remeasured into US dollars. A reduction in the value of the US dollar against currencies of other countries in which we have material operations could result in the use of additional cash to settle operating, administrative and tax liabilities. Net transaction gains and losses were de minimis for 2019, 2018 and 2017. 

We currently have no foreign currency derivative instruments outstanding. However, we may enter into foreign currency derivative instruments in the future if we determine that it is necessary to invest in such instruments in order to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risk.

56
Index to Financial Statements

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data