Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2019 and 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. Discussions of 2017 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.

Results of Operations

The following represents our consolidated performance highlights:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased 28% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase in our consolidated revenues was due to the 23% growth in average paying memberships and a 5% increase in average monthly revenue per paying membership. The increase in average monthly revenue per paying membership resulted from our price changes and plan mix, partially offset by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.

The increase in operating margin is due primarily to increased revenues, partially offset by increased content expenses as we continue to acquire, license and produce content, including more Netflix originals, as well as increased marketing expenses and headcount costs to support continued improvements in our streaming service, our international expansion, and our growing content production activities.

Streaming Revenues

We derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services related to streaming content to our members. We offer a variety of streaming membership plans, the price of which varies by country and the features of the plan. As of December 31, 2019, pricing on our plans ranged from the U.S. dollar equivalent of $3 to $22 per month. We expect that from time to time the prices of our membership plans in each country may change and we may test other plan and price variations.

The following tables summarize streaming revenue and other streaming membership information by region for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.

20
United States and Canada (UCAN)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Latin America (LATAM)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

21
Asia-Pacific (APAC)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) We believe constant currency information is useful in analyzing the underlying trends in average monthly revenue per paying membership. In order to exclude the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations on average monthly revenue per paying membership, we estimate current period revenue assuming foreign exchange rates had remained constant with foreign exchange rates from each of the corresponding months of the prior-year period. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our revenues would have been approximately $762 million higher had foreign currency exchange rates remained constant with those for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Cost of Revenues

Amortization of streaming content assets makes up the majority of cost of revenues. Expenses associated with the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content (such as payroll and related personnel expenses, costs associated with obtaining rights to music included in our content, overall deals with talent, miscellaneous production related costs and participations and residuals), streaming delivery costs and other operations costs make up the remainder of cost of revenues. We have built our own global content delivery network (“Open Connect”) to help us efficiently stream a high volume of content to our members over the internet. Streaming delivery expenses, therefore, include equipment costs related to Open Connect, payroll and related personnel expenses and all third-party costs, such as cloud computing costs, associated with delivering streaming content over the internet. Other operations costs include customer service and payment processing fees, including those we pay to our integrated payment partners, as well as other costs incurred in making our content available to members.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to a $1,684 million increase in content amortization relating to our existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. Other costs increased $789 million primarily due to increases in expenses associated with the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content as well as increased payment processing fees driven by our growing member base.

Marketing

Marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising expenses and certain payments made to our marketing partners, including consumer electronics ("CE") manufacturers, MVPDs, mobile operators and ISPs. Advertising expenses include promotional activities such as digital and television advertising. Marketing expenses also include payroll and related expenses for personnel that support marketing activities. 

22
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to a $139 million increase in personnel-related expenses, including increases in compensation for existing employees and growth in average headcount, as well as increased advertising and payments to our marketing partners.

Technology and Development

Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for all technology personnel, as well as other costs incurred in making improvements to our service offerings, including testing, maintaining and modifying our user interface, our recommendation, merchandising and streaming delivery technology and infrastructure. Technology and development expenses also include costs associated with computer hardware and software.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in technology and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to a $305 million increase in personnel-related costs, including increases in compensation for existing employees and growth in average headcount to support the increase in our production activity and continued improvements in our streaming service. In addition, third-party expenses, including costs associated with cloud computing, increased $18 million. 

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for corporate personnel. General and administrative expenses also includes professional fees and other general corporate expenses. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 increased primarily due to a $233 million increase in personnel-related costs, including increases in compensation for existing employees and growth in average headcount to support the increase in our production activity and continued improvements in our streaming service. In addition, third-party expenses, including costs for contractors and consultants, increased $40 million.

Interest Expense

Interest expense consists primarily of the interest associated with our outstanding long-term debt obligations, including the amortization of debt issuance costs. See Note 4 Long-term Debt in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further detail of our long-term debt obligations. 

23
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 consists primarily of $614 million of interest on our Notes. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 is due to the increase in long-term debt.

Interest and Other Income (Expense)

Interest and other income (expense) consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency denominated balances and interest earned on cash and cash equivalents.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest and other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 increased primarily due to a $30 million increase in interest income earned on cash balances, coupled with foreign exchange gains. The foreign exchange gain of $7 million in the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily driven by the $46 million gain from the remeasurement of our Senior Notes denominated in euros, partially offset by the remeasurement of cash and content liability positions in currencies other than the functional currencies of our European and U.S. entities.

Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In connection with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, we simplified our global corporate structure, effective April 1, 2019. The tax impacts of such simplifications were not material to the financial statements taken as a whole. During the fourth quarter of 2019, the United States Treasury issued final regulations with respect to certain aspects related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Additional guidance provided in these regulations resulted in a tax adjustment in the fourth quarter of 2019. We paid U.S. Federal taxes for the full year inclusive of this fourth quarter adjustment.

The increase in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 is primarily due to the global corporate structure simplification, lower benefit from the recognition of excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation, and a lower benefit on a percentage basis from Federal and California research and development ("R&D") credits. The one-time transition tax benefit under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118") that provided a measurement period to address the U.S. GAAP impacts associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 is no longer applicable in 2019.

 In 2019, the difference between our 9% effective tax rate and the Federal statutory rate of 21% was primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation, Federal and California R&D credits, and the international provisions from the U.S. tax reform enacted in 2017, partially offset by state taxes, foreign taxes, and non-deductible expenses.

24
Liquidity and Capital Resources

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash increased $1,232 million in the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to the issuance of debt, partially offset by cash used in operations. 

Long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs, increased $4,399 million due to long-term note issuances in 2019. The earliest maturity date for our outstanding long-term debt is February 2021. As of December 31, 2019, no amounts had been borrowed under our $750 million Revolving Credit Agreement. See Note 4 Long-term Debt in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. We anticipate continuing to finance our future capital needs in the debt market. Our ability to obtain this or any additional financing that we may choose to, or need to, obtain will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. 

Our primary uses of cash include the acquisition, licensing and production of content, streaming delivery, marketing programs and personnel-related costs. Cash payment terms for non-original content have historically been in line with the amortization period. Investments in original content, and in particular content that we produce and own, require more cash upfront relative to licensed content. For example, production costs are paid as the content is created, well in advance of when the content is available on the service and amortized. We expect to continue to significantly increase our investments in global streaming content, particularly in original content, which will impact our liquidity and result in future net cash used in operating activities and negative free cash flows for many years. We currently anticipate that cash flows from operations, available funds and access to financing sources, including our revolving credit facility, will continue to be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next twelve months. 

Free Cash Flow

We define free cash flow as cash provided by (used in) operating and investing activities excluding the non-operational cash flows from purchases, maturities and sales of short-term investments. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity metric because it measures, during a given period, the amount of cash generated that is available to repay debt obligations, make investments and for certain other activities or the amount of cash used in operations, including investments in global streaming content. Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, net income, operating income, cash flow used in operating activities, or any other measure of financial performance or liquidity presented in accordance with GAAP.

In assessing liquidity in relation to our results of operations, we compare free cash flow to net income, noting that the three major recurring differences are excess content payments over amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation expense and other working capital differences. Working capital differences include deferred revenue, excess property and equipment purchases over depreciation, taxes and semi-annual interest payments on our outstanding debt. Our receivables from members generally settle quickly.

25
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash used in operating activities increased $207 million from the year ended December 31, 2018 to $2,887 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increased use of cash was primarily driven by the increase in investments in streaming content that require more upfront payments, partially offset by a $4,362 million or 28% increase in revenues. The payments for streaming content assets increased $2,567 million, from $12,044 million to $14,611 million, or 21%, as compared to the increase in the amortization of streaming content assets of $1,684 million, from $7,532 million to $9,216 million, or 22%. In addition, we had increased payments associated with higher operating expenses, primarily related to increased headcount to support our continued improvements in our streaming service, our international expansion and increased content production activities.

Net cash used in investing activities increased $48 million, primarily due to an increase in purchases of property and equipment.

Net cash provided by financing activities increased $457 million due to an increase in the proceeds from the issuance of debt of $507 million from $3,926 million in the year ended December 31, 2018 to $4,433 million in the year ended December 31, 2019. In addition, we had a decrease in the proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $52 million.

Free cash flow was $5,141 million lower than net income for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to $5,394 million of cash payments for streaming content assets over streaming amortization expense and $152 million in other non-favorable working capital differences, partially offset by $405 million of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.

Contractual Obligations

For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of the payment of the obligations discussed below is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2019. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

26
Streaming content obligations include amounts related to the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content. An obligation for the production of content includes non-cancelable commitments under creative talent and employment agreements and other production related commitments. An obligation for the acquisition and licensing of content is incurred at the time we enter into an agreement to obtain future titles. Once a title becomes available, a content liability is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain agreements include the obligation to license rights for unknown future titles, the ultimate quantity and/or fees for which are not yet determinable as of the reporting date. Traditional film output deals, or certain TV series license agreements where the number of seasons to be aired is unknown, are examples of these types of agreements. The contractual obligations table above does not include any estimated obligation for the unknown future titles, payment for which could range from less than one year to more than five years. However, these unknown obligations are expected to be significant and we believe could include approximately $1 billion to $4 billion over the next three years, with the payments for the vast majority of such amounts expected to occur after the next twelve months. The foregoing range is based on considerable management judgments and the actual amounts may differ. Once we know the title that we will receive and the license fees, we include the amount in the contractual obligations table above.

(2)Long-term debt obligations include our Notes consisting of principal and interest payments. See Note 4 Long-term Debt in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4)Other purchase obligations include all other non-cancelable contractual obligations. These contracts are primarily related to streaming delivery and cloud computing costs, as well as other miscellaneous open purchase orders for which we have not received the related services or goods.

As of December 31, 2019, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $67 million which was classified in “Other non-current liabilities” and a reduction to deferred tax assets which was classified as "Other non-current assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. At this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible adjustments to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits cannot be made.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

 We do not have transactions with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to us. 

Indemnifications

The information set forth under Note 6 Guarantees - Indemnification Obligations in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. The Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has defined a company’s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

27
Streaming Content 

We acquire, license and produce content, including original programing, in order to offer our members unlimited viewing of entertainment. The content licenses are for a fixed fee and specific windows of availability. Payment terms for certain content licenses and the production of content require more upfront cash payments relative to the amortization expense. Payments for content, including additions to streaming assets and the changes in related liabilities, are classified within "Net cash used in operating activities" on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

We recognize content assets (licensed and produced) as "Non-current content assets, net" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. For licenses, we capitalize the fee per title and record a corresponding liability at the gross amount of the liability when the license period begins, the cost of the title is known and the title is accepted and available for streaming. For productions, we capitalize costs associated with the production, including development cost, direct costs and production overhead. Participations and residuals are expensed in line with the amortization of production costs. 

Based on factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns, we amortize the content assets (licensed and produced) in “Cost of revenues” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations over the shorter of each title's contractual window of availability or estimated period of use or ten years, beginning with the month of first availability. The amortization is on an accelerated basis, as we typically expect more upfront viewing, for instance due to additional merchandising and marketing efforts, and film amortization is more accelerated than TV series amortization. On average, over 90% of a licensed or produced streaming content asset is expected to be amortized within four years after its month of first availability. We review factors that impact the amortization of the content assets on a regular basis. Our estimates related to these factors require considerable management judgment.

Our business model is subscription based as opposed to a model generating revenues at a specific title level. Content assets (licensed and produced) are predominantly monetized as a group and therefore are reviewed at a group level when an event or change in circumstances indicates a change in the expected usefulness of the content or that the fair value may be less than unamortized cost. To date, we have not identified any such event or changes in circumstances. If such changes are identified in the future, these aggregated content assets will be stated at the lower of unamortized cost or fair value. In addition, unamortized costs for assets that have been, or are expected to be, abandoned are written off. 

Income Taxes

We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Deferred income taxes are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance for any tax benefits for which future realization is uncertain. 

Although we believe our assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements.

In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, in full or in part, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, and our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Actual operating results in future years could differ from our current assumptions, judgments and estimates. However, we believe that it is more likely than not that most of the deferred tax assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets will ultimately be realized. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. At December 31, 2019 the valuation allowance of $135 million was primarily related to foreign tax credits that we are not expected to realize. 

We did not recognize certain tax benefits from uncertain tax positions within the provision for income taxes. We may recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2019, our estimated gross unrecognized tax benefits were $67 million of which $57 million, if recognized, would favorably impact our future earnings. Due to uncertainties in any tax audit outcome, our estimates of the ultimate settlement of our unrecognized tax positions may change and the actual tax benefits may differ significantly from the estimates. 

See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding income taxes.

28
Recent Accounting Pronouncements

The information set forth under Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption “Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” is incorporated herein by reference. 

29
Historical Segment Information

Historically, we reported contribution profit (loss) for three segments: Domestic streaming, International streaming and Domestic DVD, which was reflective of how our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") reviewed financial information for the purposes of making operating decisions, assessing financial performance and allocating resources. Contribution profit (loss) is defined as revenues less cost of revenues and marketing expenses incurred by the segment. Because we increasingly obtain multi-territory or global rights for streaming content, contribution profit (loss) on a regional basis is no longer a meaningful metric reviewed by the CODM or used in the allocation of resources. 

Effective in the fourth quarter of 2019, we operate as a single operating segment. Our CODM is our chief executive officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions, assessing financial performance and allocating resources. 

As the transition to one segment occurred during 2019, we are providing supplemental pro-forma information reflecting our historic segment reporting as if it had remained in place for the full year ended December 31, 2019 as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk