Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk Factors

Changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: Funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. Corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. As a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. Changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. We follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. A substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with ratings of AA or higher, and A-1/P-1 ratings on short-term securities. We invest predominately in municipal bonds – including general obligation bonds and revenue bonds; U.S. government agency and treasury securities; and corporate bonds. We limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest primarily in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. We manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years.

During fiscal 2020, our primary short-term investment vehicles were U.S. government agency and treasury securities, VRDNs, and bank demand deposit accounts. We have no exposure to high-risk or non-liquid investments. We have insignificant exposure to European investments. We have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk.

During fiscal 2020, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.8%, compared to 1.9% and 1.5% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. When interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. During a falling interest rate environment, earnings decrease from our short-term investments, and over time earnings will decrease from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. Earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of May 31, 2020 had an average duration of 2.9 years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. 

The amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of May 31, 2020 are shown below by contractual maturity. Expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

VRDNs are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. Although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature.

The Federal Reserve reduced the Federal Funds rate by 25 basis points three times in the first nine months of fiscal 2020 after periodically raising the rate from December 2015 through May 2019. Then in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve reduced the Federal Funds rate a total of 150 basis points. As of May 31, 2020, the Federal Funds rate was in the range of 0.0% to 0.25% as compared to a range of 2.25% to 2.50% as of May 31, 2019, and in the range of 1.50% to 1.75% as of May 31, 2018. There continues to be uncertainty in the changing market and economic conditions, including the possibility of additional measures that could be taken by the Federal Reserve and other government agencies, related to the COVID-19 pandemic. We will continue to monitor market conditions.

Calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. These factors include, but are not limited to:

governmental action resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic;

daily interest rate changes; 

33
seasonal variations in investment balances;

actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities;

the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments;

changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and

financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates.

Subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. Under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be approximately $3.0 million to $4.0 million, after taxes, for a twelve-month period. Such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the Federal Funds rate.

Our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investments) averaged approximately $4.8 billion for fiscal 2020. Our anticipated allocation is approximately 40% invested in short-term securities and VRDNs with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 60% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. 

The combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected net unrealized gains of $100.0 million and $19.7 million as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019, respectively. Refer to Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional disclosures on fair value measurements.

During fiscal 2020, the net unrealized gain or loss on our investment portfolios ranged from an unrealized gain of $106.3 million to an unrealized loss of $27.0 million. During fiscal 2019, the net unrealized gain or loss on our investment portfolios ranged from an unrealized gain of $19.7 million to an unrealized loss of $60.7 million. The net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $112.4 million as of July 15, 2020.

As of May 31, 2020 and 2019, we had $2.8 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. The weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 2.1% as of May 31, 2020 and May 31, 2019. The weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates, such as the VRDNs. Assuming a hypothetical increase in longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of May 31, 2020, would be in the range of $20.0 million to $25.0 million. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. This hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio’s recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders’ equity. These fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized.

Credit risk: We are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. We regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. We believe that the investments we held as of May 31, 2020 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. While $66.8 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that unrealized losses of $1.7 million were due to changes in interest rates and were not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. Most of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of May 31, 2020 and 2019 held an AA rating or better. We do not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. Our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment.

We have some credit risk exposure relating to the purchase of accounts receivable as a means of providing payroll funding to clients in the temporary staffing industry. This credit risk exposure is diversified amongst multiple client arrangements and all such arrangements are regularly reviewed for potential write-off. No single client is material in respect to total accounts receivable, service revenue, or results of operations. 

34
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data