ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS 

OF OPERATIONS

Financial and Operating Performance

Pioneer's financial and operating performance for 2019 included the following highlights:

•Net income attributable to common stockholders was $756 million ($4.50 per diluted share) for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to net income of $978 million ($5.70 per diluted share) in 2018. The primary components of the $222 million decrease in earnings attributable to common stockholders include:

•a $767 million decrease in the gain (loss) on disposition of assets (from a net gain on disposition of assets in 2018 to a net loss on disposition of assets in 2019), primarily due to the 2019 net loss recorded on the divestiture of the Company's Eagle Ford assets and other remaining South Texas assets, as compared to the net gain recorded on the Company's 2018 divestitures, including the Company's pressure pumping assets; Sinor Nest (Lower Wilcox) oil field assets; West Panhandle and West Eagle Ford Shale gas and liquids fields assets; and Raton Basin gas field assets;

•a $177 million increase in DD&A expense, primarily due to an increase in sales volumes due to the Company's successful Spraberry/Wolfcamp horizontal drilling program;

•a $175 million decrease in net sales of purchased oil and gas due to a decrease in downstream oil margins on the Company's Gulf Coast refinery and export sales;

•a $75 million decrease in oil and gas revenues, primarily due to a nine percent decrease in average realized commodity prices per BOE, partially offset by an eight percent increase in sales volumes; and

•a $34 million increase in total oil and gas production costs and production and ad valorem taxes, primarily due to the aforementioned increase in sales volumes.

Partially offset by:

•a $401 million decrease in other expense, primarily related to $159 million of 2019 restructuring charges associated with the Company's corporate restructuring program to align its cost structure with the needs of a Permian Basin-focused company (the "Corporate Restructuring Program"), as compared to 2018 expenses that included a noncash charge of $443 million associated with the Company's closure of its Brady, Texas sand mine and $170 million of asset divestiture-related charges associated with the sale of the aforementioned pressure pumping assets and oil and gas properties;

•a $326 million increase in derivative gain (loss) (from a net loss on derivatives assets in 2018 to a net gain on derivatives in 2019), primarily due to changes in forward commodity prices and the cash settlement of derivative positions in accordance with their terms;

•a $77 million decrease in impairment charges reflecting the 2018 noncash impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the Company's divested Raton Basin gas field assets;

•a $57 million decrease in general and administrative expense due to a reduction in headcount as a result of the Company's Corporate Restructuring Program and other cost saving initiatives;

•a $56 million decrease in exploration and abandonments expense, primarily due to reductions in geologic and geophysical costs as a result of the aforementioned Corporate Restructuring Program and a reduction in unsuccessful exploratory well costs; 

•a $45 million decrease in income tax expense due to the decrease in earnings in 2019 compared to 2018; and 

•a $38 million increase in interest and other income, primarily related to net proceeds received from the sale of the Company's investment in its new corporate headquarters, partially offset by valuation adjustments associated with the Company's investment in an affiliate and contingent consideration received in the sale of the Company's Eagle Ford assets and other remaining South Texas assets in 2019.

•During 2019, average daily sales volumes increased on a BOE basis by eight percent to 345,518 BOEPD, as compared to 319,984 BOEPD during 2018, primarily due to the Company's successful Spraberry/Wolfcamp horizontal drilling program, which more than offset the loss of production associated with the Company's 2019 and 2018 divestitures.

•Average oil and NGL prices per Bbl decreased in 2019 to $53.77 and $19.33, respectively, as compared to $57.36 and $29.84, respectively, in 2018. Average gas prices decreased per Mcf in 2019 to $1.79 as compared to $2.13 in 2018.

50
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

First Quarter 2020 Outlook

Based on current estimates, the Company expects the following operating and financial results for the first quarter of 2020: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2020 Capital Budget

The Company's capital budget for 2020 is expected to be in the range of $3.15 billion to $3.45 billion, consisting of $3.0 billion to $3.3 billion for drilling and completion related activities, including additional tank batteries and saltwater disposal facilities, and $125 million for water infrastructure. The 2020 capital budget excludes acquisitions, asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest and geological and geophysical general and administrative expense and corporate facilities. 

The 2020 capital budget is expected to be funded from operating cash flow, and, if necessary, from cash and cash equivalents on hand, sales of investments, or borrowings under the Company's credit facility.

Divestitures, Decommissioning and Restructuring Activities

Divestitures.

In December 2019, the Company completed the sale of certain vertical and horizontal wells and approximately 4,500 undeveloped acres in Glasscock County of the Permian Basin to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $64 million. The Company recorded a gain of $10 million associated with the sale.

In July 2019, the Company completed the sale of certain vertical wells and approximately 1,400 undeveloped acres in Martin County of the Permian Basin to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $27 million. The Company recorded a gain of $26 million associated with the sale.

In June 2019, the Company completed the sale of certain vertical wells and approximately 1,900 undeveloped acres in Martin County of the Permian Basin to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $38 million. The Company recorded a gain of $31 million associated with the sale.

In May 2019, the Company completed the sale of its Eagle Ford assets and other remaining assets in South Texas (the "South Texas Divestiture") to an unaffiliated third party in exchange for total consideration having an estimated fair value of $210 million. The fair value of the consideration included (i) net cash proceeds of $2 million, (ii) $136 million in contingent consideration and (iii) a $72 million receivable associated with estimated deficiency fees to be paid by the buyer. Of the total consideration, $208 million is considered a noncash investing activity for the year ended December 31, 2019. The Company recorded a loss of $525 million and recognized employee-related charges of $19 million associated with the sale. 

In December 2018, the Company completed the sale of its pressure pumping assets to ProPetro Holding Corp. ("ProPetro") in exchange for total consideration of $282 million, comprised of 16.6 million shares of ProPetro's common stock, which was delivered as of the date of the sale and had a fair value of $172 million, and $110 million in cash, which was received during the first quarter of 2019. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $30 million, employee-related charges of $19 million, contract termination charges of $13 million and other divestiture-related charges of $6 million associated with 

51
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

the sale. During 2019, the Company reduced the gain associated with the sale by $10 million and recorded additional employee-related charges of $1 million.

In December 2018, the Company completed the sale of approximately 2,900 net acres in the Sinor Nest (Lower Wilcox) oil field in South Texas to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $105 million. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $54 million associated with the sale.

In August 2018, the Company completed the sale of its assets in the West Panhandle gas and liquids field to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $170 million. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $127 million and employee-related charges of $7 million associated with the sale. 

In July 2018, the Company completed the sale of its gas field assets in the Raton Basin to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $54 million. The Company recorded a noncash impairment charge of $77 million in June 2018 to reduce the carrying value of its Raton Basin assets to their estimated fair value less costs to sell as the assets were considered held for sale. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $2 million associated with this divestiture. The Company also recorded divestiture-related charges of $117 million, including $111 million of deficiency charges related to certain firm transportation contracts retained by the Company and employee-related charges of $6 million.

In April 2018, the Company completed the sale of approximately 10,200 net acres in the West Eagle Ford Shale gas and liquids field to an unaffiliated third party for net cash proceeds of $100 million. During 2018, the Company recorded a gain of $75 million associated with the sale. 

Decommissioning. 

In November 2018, the Company announced plans to close its sand mine located in Brady, Texas and transition its proppant supply requirements to West Texas sand sources. 

•During 2019, the Company recorded $23 million of accelerated depreciation, $13 million of inventory and other property and equipment impairment charges and $12 million of sand mine closure-related costs. 

•During 2018, the Company recorded $443 million of accelerated depreciation and $7 million of employee-related charges associated with the pending shutdown.

Restructuring.

During 2019, the Company implemented the Corporate Restructuring Program to align its cost structure with the needs of a Permian Basin-focused company. The restructuring occurred in three phases as follows:

•In March 2019, the Company made certain changes to its leadership and organizational structure, which included the early retirement and departure of certain officers of the Company,

•In April 2019, the Company adopted a voluntary separation program ("VSP") for certain eligible employees, and 

•In May 2019, the Company implemented an involuntary separation program ("ISP").

During 2019, the Company recorded $159 million of employee-related charges, including $26 million of noncash stock-based compensation expense related to the accelerated vesting of certain equity awards, associated with the Corporate Restructuring Program.

See Note 3 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding Divestitures, Decommissioning and Restructuring activities.

52
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Results of Operations

Results of operations should be read together with the Company's consolidated financial statements and related notes included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for a discussion of the Company's 2018 results of operations as compared to the Company's 2017 results of operations.

Oil and gas revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Average daily sales volumes are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(a)Gas production excludes gas produced and used as field fuel.

Average daily sales volumes per BOE increased for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to the Company's successful Spraberry/Wolfcamp horizontal drilling program, which more than offset the loss of production associated with the Company's 2019 and 2018 divestitures.

The oil, NGL and gas prices reported by the Company are based on the market prices received for each commodity. The average prices are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales of purchased oil and gas. The Company enters into pipeline capacity commitments in order to secure available oil, NGL and gas transportation capacity from the Company's areas of production. The Company also enters into purchase transactions with third parties and separate sale transactions with third parties to diversify a portion of the Company's oil and gas sales to Gulf Coast refineries and LNG facilities, international export markets and to satisfy unused gas pipeline capacity commitments. Revenues and expenses from these transactions are presented on a gross basis as the Company acts as a principal in the transaction by assuming both the risk and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, of the commodities purchased and the responsibility to deliver the commodities sold. The transportation costs associated with these transactions are presented on a net basis in purchased oil and gas expense. 

53
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

The net effect of third party purchases and sales of oil and gas is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The $175 million decrease in net sales of purchased oil and gas for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, is primarily due to a decrease in downstream oil margins on the Company's Gulf Coast refinery and export sales. 

Firm transportation payments on excess pipeline capacity are included in other expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Interest and other income. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest and other income for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, is primarily due to receiving net proceeds of $56 million from the sale of the Company's investment in its new corporate headquarters offset by noncash valuation adjustments associated with the Company's investment in an affiliate and contingent consideration received in the sale of the Company's Eagle Ford assets and other remaining South Texas assets in 2019.

See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Derivative gain (loss), net. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company primarily utilizes commodity swap contracts, option contracts, collar contracts, collar contracts with short puts and basis swap contracts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells or consumes, (ii) support the Company's annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects.

54
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Commodity derivatives and the relative price impact are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(a)Excludes the effect of liquidating the Company's NYMEX WTI collar contracts with short puts and its Brent swap contracts for cash payments of $81 million and its ethane basis contracts for cash payments of $4 million. Also excludes the effect of non-commodity derivative cash payments of $3 million.

The Company's open derivative contracts are subject to continuing market risk. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Gain (loss) on disposition of assets, net. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company's gain (loss) on disposition of assets is primarily attributable to the following divestitures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

55
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Oil and gas production costs. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Total production costs per BOE are as follows

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(a)Lease operating expense and workover expense represent the components of oil and gas production costs over which the Company has management control.

(b)Gathering, processing and transportation expense represents the costs to gather, process and transport the Company's gas to the point of sale.

(c)Net natural gas plant income represents the earnings from the Company's ownership share of gas processing facilities that gather and process the Company's and third party gas.

Lease operating expense per BOE increased for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, primarily due to higher maintenance costs associated with the Company's vertical wells in the Permian Basin. Gathering, processing and transportation decreased due to a greater proportion of the Company's production volumes coming from the Permian Basin, which have lower per BOE gathering, processing and transportation costs. The net natural gas plant income per BOE primarily reflects increased throughput of volumes that are processed in gas processing facilities that the Company has an ownership interest due to additional gas plants being brought online in 2019. The decrease in workover costs per BOE was primarily due to a reduction in workover activity on vertical wells.

Production and ad valorem taxes. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In general, production taxes and ad valorem taxes are directly related to commodity price changes; however, Texas ad valorem taxes are based upon prior year commodity prices, whereas production taxes are based upon current year commodity prices.

Production and ad valorem taxes per BOE are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Depletion, depreciation and amortization ("DD&A") expense. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

56
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Total DD&A expense per BOE is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in DD&A per BOE and depletion expense per BOE is primarily due to the Company's divested assets, which had a lower depletion per BOE rate.

Impairment of oil and gas properties and other long-lived assets. The Company performs assessments of its long-lived assets to be held and used, including oil and gas properties, whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of those assets may not be recoverable. As a result of the Company's impairment assessments, the Company recorded noncash impairment charges in 2018 to reduce the carrying value of its Raton Basin gas field assets by $77 million.

See Note 2 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Exploration and abandonments expense. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in geological and geophysical costs is primarily due to a decrease in geological and geophysical personnel costs as a result of the Corporate Restructuring Program. The decrease in exploration and abandonments expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, is primarily due to a decrease in unsuccessful Eagle Ford exploratory well costs. 

During 2019 and 2018, the Company completed and evaluated 281 and 261 exploration/extension wells, respectively, and 100 percent and 96 percent, respectively, were successfully completed as discoveries.

General and administrative expense. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, was primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs, including benefits expense, as a result of the Company's 2019 Corporate Restructuring Program.

57
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

Interest expense. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The weighted average interest rate on the Company's indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2019 is 5.3 percent, as compared to 5.4 percent for the year ended December 31, 2018.

See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Other expense. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in other expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, is primarily related to a noncash charge of $443 million in 2018 associated with the Company's closure of its Brady, Texas sand mine and $170 million of asset divestiture-related charges associated with the sale of the Company's pressure pumping assets and oil and gas properties during 2018. The decrease was partially offset by $159 million of restructuring charges associated with the Company's Corporate Restructuring Program during 2019. 

See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Income tax provision. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in the income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, is primarily due to a decrease of $264 million in income before income taxes.

See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity. The Company's primary sources of short-term liquidity are (i) cash and cash equivalents, (ii) net cash provided by operating activities, (iii) sales of investments, (iv) unused borrowing capacity under its credit facility (the "Credit Facility"), (v) issuances of debt or equity securities and (vi) other sources, such as sales of nonstrategic assets. 

The Company's primary needs for cash are for (i) capital expenditures, (ii) acquisitions of oil and gas properties, (iii) payments of contractual obligations, including debt maturities, (iv) dividends and share repurchases and (v) working capital obligations. Funding for these cash needs may be provided by any combination of the Company's sources of liquidity. Although the Company expects that its sources of funding will be adequate to fund its 2020 capital expenditures, dividend payments and provide adequate liquidity to fund other needs, including stock repurchases, no assurance can be given that such funding sources will be adequate to meet the Company's future needs. 

58
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

2020 capital budget. The Company' capital budget for 2020 is expected to be in the range of $3.15 billion to $3.45 billion, consisting of $3.0 billion to $3.3 billion for drilling and completion related activities, including additional tank batteries and saltwater disposal facilities, and $125 million for water infrastructure. The 2020 capital budget excludes acquisitions, asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest, geological and geophysical general and administrative expense and corporate facilities. 

Capital resources. See the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for a discussion of the Company's 2018 capital resources as compared to the Company's 2017 capital resources.

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its Credit Facility, leaving $1.5 billion of unused borrowing capacity. The Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants as of December 31, 2019. The Company also had cash on hand of $631 million as of December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating activities. The decrease in net cash flow provided by operating activities in 2019, as compared to 2018, is primarily due to decreases in the Company's oil and gas revenues as a result of decreases in commodity prices.

Investing activities. The decrease in net cash flow used in investing activities during 2019, as compared to 2018, is primarily due to a decrease of $532 million in capital expenditures related to oil and gas properties offset by a $320 million decrease in net cash proceeds from the disposition of assets. The Company's investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2019 were primarily funded by net cash provided by operating activities.

Financing activities. The Company's significant financing activities are as follows:

•2019: The Company repurchased $653 million of its common stock and paid dividends of $127 million.

•2018: The Company repaid $450 million associated with the maturity of its 6.875% senior notes, repurchased $179 million of its common stock and paid dividends of $55 million.

Dividends/distributions. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company's board of directors declared dividends of $1.20 per common share, compared to dividends declared of $0.32 per common share during the year ended December 31, 2018. The Company paid aggregate dividends of $127 million during 2019 and $55 million during 2018. In addition, on February 19, 2020, the board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.55 per share on the Company's outstanding common stock, payable April 14, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 31, 2020. Future dividends are at the discretion of the Company's board of directors, and, if declared, the board of directors may change the dividend amount based on the Company's liquidity and capital resources at the time.

Off-balance sheet arrangements. From time to time, the Company enters into arrangements and transactions that can give rise to material off-balance sheet obligations of the Company. As of December 31, 2019, the material off-balance sheet arrangements and transactions that the Company had entered into included (i) operating lease agreements related to contracted drilling rigs whose terms have not commenced, (ii) firm purchase, transportation, storage and fractionation commitments, (iii) open purchase commitments and (iv) contractual obligations for which the ultimate settlement amounts are not fixed and determinable. The contractual obligations for which the ultimate settlement amounts are not fixed and determinable include (i) derivative contracts that are sensitive to future changes in commodity prices or interest rates, (ii) gathering, processing (primarily treating and fractionation) and transportation commitments on uncertain volumes of future throughput, (iii) open purchase commitments and (iv) indemnification obligations following certain divestitures. Other than the off-balance sheet arrangements described above, the Company has no transactions, arrangements or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company's liquidity or availability of or requirements for capital resources. The Company expects to enter into similar contractual arrangements in the future, including incremental derivative contracts and additional firm purchase, transportation, storage and fractionation arrangements, in order to support the Company's business plans. See "Contractual obligations" below and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Contractual obligations. The Company's contractual obligations include long-term debt, leases (primarily related to contracted drilling rigs, equipment and office facilities), capital funding obligations, derivative obligations, firm transportation, 

59
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

storage and fractionation commitments, minimum annual gathering, processing and transportation commitments and other liabilities (including postretirement benefit obligations). Other joint owners in the properties operated by the Company could incur portions of the costs represented by these commitments.

Contractual obligations are estimated as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________

(a)Firm purchase, gathering, processing, transportation, storage and fractionation commitments represent take-or-pay agreements, which include (i) contractual commitments to purchase sand and water for use in the Company's drilling operations and (ii) estimated fees on production throughput commitments and demand fees associated with volume delivery or storage commitments. The Company does not expect to be able to fulfill all of its short-term and long-term volume delivery obligations from projected production of available reserves; consequently, the Company plans to purchase third party volumes to satisfy its commitments if it is economic to do so; otherwise, it will pay demand fees for any commitment shortfalls. See "Item 2. Properties" and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

(b)The amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. 

(c)Open purchase commitments primarily represent expenditure commitments for inventories, materials and other property and equipment ordered, but not received, as of December 31, 2019.

(d)The amounts represent future minimum lease payments associated long-term lease contracts to which the Company was a party and had commenced as of December 31, 2019. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. 

(e)Derivative obligations represent net liabilities determined in accordance with master netting arrangements for commodity derivatives that were valued as of December 31, 2019. The Company's commodity derivative contracts are periodically measured and recorded at fair value and continue to be subject to market and credit risk. The ultimate liquidation value of the Company's commodity derivatives will be dependent upon actual future commodity prices, which may differ materially from the inputs used to determine the derivatives' fair values as of December 31, 2019. See Note 5 and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional information.

(f)The Company's other liabilities represent current and noncurrent other liabilities that are comprised of litigation and environmental contingencies, asset retirement obligations and other obligations for which neither the ultimate settlement amounts nor their timings can be precisely determined in advance. See Note 9 and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Debt ratings. The Company is rated as mid-investment grade by three credit rating agencies. The Company receives debt credit ratings from several of the major ratings agencies, which are subject to regular reviews. The Company believes that each of the rating agencies considers many factors in determining the Company's ratings, including: (i) production growth opportunities, (ii) liquidity, (iii) debt levels, (iv) asset composition and (v) proved reserve mix. A reduction in the Company's debt ratings could increase the interest rates that the Company incurs on Credit Facility borrowings and could negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain additional financing or the interest rate, fees and other terms associated with such additional financing. 

Book capitalization and current ratio. The Company's net book capitalization at December 31, 2019 was $13.8 billion, consisting of cash and cash equivalents of $631 million, debt of $2.3 billion and equity of $12.1 billion. The Company's net debt to book capitalization increased to 12 percent at December 31, 2019 from seven percent at December 31, 2018, primarily 

60
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

due to funding the Company's share repurchases with cash and cash equivalents. The Company's ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 0.88:1 at December 31, 2019, as compared to 1.42:1 at December 31, 2018.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in this Report in accordance with GAAP. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. The following is a discussion of the Company's most critical accounting estimates, judgments and uncertainties that are inherent in the Company's application of GAAP.

Asset retirement obligations. The Company has significant obligations to remove tangible equipment and facilities and to restore the land at the end of oil and gas production operations. The Company's removal and restoration obligations are primarily associated with plugging and abandoning wells. Estimating the future restoration and removal costs is difficult and requires management to make estimates and judgments because most of the removal obligations are many years in the future and contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what constitutes removal. Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as are regulatory, political, environmental, safety and public relations considerations.

Inherent in the present value calculation are numerous assumptions and judgments including the ultimate settlement amounts, credit-adjusted discount rates, timing of settlement and changes in the legal, regulatory, environmental and political environments. To the extent future revisions to these assumptions impact the present value of the existing asset retirement obligations, a corresponding adjustment is generally made to the oil and gas property or other property and equipment balance. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Successful efforts method of accounting. The Company utilizes the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities as opposed to the alternate acceptable full cost method. In general, the Company believes that net assets and net income are more conservatively measured under the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities than under the full cost method, particularly during periods of active exploration. The critical difference between the successful efforts method of accounting and the full cost method is that under the successful efforts method, exploratory dry holes and geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against earnings during the periods in which they occur; whereas, under the full cost method of accounting, such costs and expenses are capitalized as assets, pooled with the costs of successful wells and charged against the earnings of future periods as a component of depletion expense. 

Proved reserve estimates. Estimates of the Company's proved reserves included in this Report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:

•the quality and quantity of available data;

•the interpretation of that data;

•the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and

•the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.

The Company's proved reserve information included in this Report as of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was prepared by the Company's engineers and audited by independent petroleum engineers with respect to the Company's major properties. Estimates prepared by third parties may be higher or lower than those included herein.

Because these estimates depend on many assumptions, all of which may substantially differ from future actual results, proved reserve estimates will be different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production after the date of an estimate may justify, positively or negatively, material revisions to the estimate of proved reserves.

It should not be assumed that the Standardized Measure included in this Report as of December 31, 2019 is the current market value of the Company's estimated proved reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the Company based the 2019 Standardized Measure on a twelve month average of commodity prices on the first day of each month in 2019 and prevailing costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs utilized in the estimate. See "Item 2. Properties" and Unaudited Supplementary Information included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

The Company's estimates of proved reserves materially impact depletion expense. If the estimates of proved reserves decline, the rate at which the Company records depletion expense will increase, reducing future net income. Such a decline may result from lower commodity prices, which may make it uneconomical to drill for and produce higher cost fields. In addition, a 

61
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

decline in proved reserve estimates may impact the outcome of the Company's assessment of its proved properties and goodwill for impairment.

Impairment of proved oil and gas properties. The Company reviews its proved properties to be held and used whenever management determines that events or circumstances indicate that the recorded carrying value of the properties may not be recoverable. Management assesses whether or not an impairment provision is necessary based upon estimated future recoverable proved and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, Management's Price Outlooks, production and capital costs expected to be incurred to recover the reserves, discount rates commensurate with the nature of the properties and net cash flows that may be generated by the properties. Proved oil and gas properties are reviewed for impairment at the level at which depletion of proved properties is calculated. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Impairment of unproved oil and gas properties. At December 31, 2019, the Company carried unproved property costs of $584 million. Management assesses unproved oil and gas properties for impairment on a project-by-project basis. Management's impairment assessments include evaluating the results of exploration activities, Management's Price Outlooks and planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of such projects.

Suspended wells. The Company suspends the costs of exploratory wells that discover hydrocarbons pending a final determination of the commercial potential of the discovery. The ultimate disposition of these well costs is dependent on the results of future drilling activity and development decisions. If the Company decides not to pursue additional appraisal activities or development of these fields, the costs of these wells will be charged to exploration and abandonment expense.

The Company does not carry the costs of drilling an exploratory well as an asset in its consolidated balance sheets following the completion of drilling unless both of the following conditions are met:

(i)The well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well; and

(ii)The Company is making sufficient progress assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project.

Due to the capital intensive nature and the geographical location of certain projects, it may take an extended period of time to evaluate the future potential of an exploration project and economics associated with making a determination on its commercial viability. In these instances, the project's feasibility is not contingent upon price improvements or advances in technology, but rather the Company's ongoing efforts and expenditures related to accurately predicting the hydrocarbon recoverability based on well information, gaining access to other companies' production, transportation or processing facilities and/or getting partner approval to drill additional appraisal wells. These activities are ongoing and being pursued constantly. Consequently, the Company's assessment of suspended exploratory well costs is continuous until a decision can be made that the well has found sufficient quantities of proved reserves to sanction the project or is determined to be noncommercial and is impaired. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Deferred tax asset valuation allowances. The Company continually assesses both positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that its deferred tax assets will be realized prior to their expiration. Pioneer monitors Company-specific, oil and gas industry and worldwide economic factors and based on that information, along with other data, reassesses the likelihood that the Company's net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax attributes in each jurisdiction will be utilized prior to their expiration. There can be no assurance that facts and circumstances will not materially change and require the Company to establish deferred tax asset valuation allowances in certain jurisdictions in a future period. 

Uncertain tax positions. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based upon the technical merits of the position. The Company has unrecognized tax benefits for tax years 2016-2018 ("UTBs") resulting from research and experimental expenditures related to horizontal drilling and completion innovations. If all or a portion of the UTBs is sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, the tax benefit will be recorded as a reduction to the Company’s deferred tax liability and will affect the Company’s effective tax rate in the period it is recorded. In December 2019, the Company and the taxing authorities effectively settled the uncertain tax position for the 2012-2015 tax years. The Company believes it will substantially resolve the uncertainties associated with the remaining UTB within the next twelve months. See Note 17 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Goodwill impairment. The Company reviews its goodwill for impairment at least annually. During the third quarter of 2019, the Company performed a qualitative assessment of goodwill to assess whether it was more likely than not that the fair 

62
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

value of the Company's reporting unit was less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it was necessary to record a noncash impairment charge. The Company determined that it was more likely than not that the Company's goodwill was not impaired. There is considerable judgment involved in estimating fair values, particularly in determining the valuation methodologies to utilize, the estimation of proved reserves as described above and the weighting of different valuation methodologies applied. 

Litigation and environmental contingencies. The Company makes judgments and estimates in recording liabilities for ongoing litigation and environmental remediation. Actual costs can vary from such estimates for a variety of reasons. The costs to settle litigation can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations of laws and opinions and assessments on the amount of damages. Similarly, environmental remediation liabilities are subject to change because of changes in laws and regulations, developing information relating to the extent and nature of site contamination and improvements in technology. A liability is recorded for these types of contingencies if the Company determines the loss to be both probable and reasonably estimable. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Valuation of stock-based compensation. The Company calculates the fair value of stock-based compensation using various valuation methods. The valuation methods require the use of estimates to derive the inputs necessary to determine fair value. The Company utilizes (i) the Black-Scholes option pricing model to measure the fair value of stock options, (ii) the closing stock price on the day prior to the date of grant for the fair value of restricted stock awards, (iii) the closing stock price on the balance sheet date for restricted stock awards that are expected to be settled wholly or partially in cash on their vesting date and (iv) the Monte Carlo simulation method for the fair value of performance unit awards. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

Valuation of other assets and liabilities at fair value. The Company periodically measures and records certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The assets and liabilities that the Company measures and records at fair value on a recurring basis include trading securities, commodity derivative contracts and interest rate contracts. Other assets are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis, but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances. The assets and liabilities that the Company measures and records at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include inventories, proved and unproved oil and gas properties, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations and other long-lived assets that are written down to fair value when they are determined to be impaired or held for sale. The Company also measures and discloses certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value, such as long-term debt and investments. The valuation methods used by the Company to measure the fair values of these assets and liabilities may require considerable management judgment and estimates to derive the inputs necessary to determine fair value estimates, such as future prices, credit-adjusted risk-free rates and current volatility factors. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information.

New Accounting Pronouncements

The effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

63
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK