PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

Southern Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945. Southern Company owns all of the outstanding common stock of Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Mississippi Power, each of which is an operating public utility company. These traditional electric operating companies supply electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi. More particular information relating to each of the traditional electric operating companies is as follows:

Alabama Power is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power Company, Gulf Electric Company, and Houston Power Company. The predecessor Alabama Power Company had been in continuous existence since its incorporation in 1906.

Georgia Power was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26, 1930.

Mississippi Power was incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on July 12, 1972 and effective December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924.

On January 1, 2019, Southern Company completed its sale of Gulf Power to NextEra Energy for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $5.8 billion (less $1.3 billion of indebtedness assumed). Gulf Power is an electric utility serving retail customers in the northwestern portion of Florida. See Note 15 to the financial statements under "Southern Company" in Item 8 herein for additional information.

In addition, Southern Company owns all of the common stock of Southern Power Company, which is also an operating public utility company. The term "Southern Power" when used herein refers to Southern Power Company and its subsidiaries, while the term "Southern Power Company" when used herein refers only to the Southern Power parent company. Southern Power develops, constructs, acquires, owns, and manages power generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. Southern Power Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware on January 8, 2001. See "The Southern Company System – Southern Power" herein and Note 15 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein for additional information, including Southern Power's recent acquisitions and dispositions.

Southern Company acquired all of the common stock of Southern Company Gas in July 2016. Southern Company Gas is an energy services holding company whose primary business is the distribution of natural gas in four states - Illinois, Georgia, Virginia, and Tennessee - through the natural gas distribution utilities. Southern Company Gas is also involved in several other businesses that are complementary to the distribution of natural gas. Southern Company Gas was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on November 27, 1995 for the primary purpose of becoming the holding company for Atlanta Gas Light, which was founded in 1856. See "The Southern Company System – Southern Company Gas" herein and Note 15 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein for additional information, including Southern Company Gas' recent and pending dispositions.

Southern Company also owns all of the outstanding common stock or membership interests of SCS, Southern Linc, Southern Holdings, Southern Nuclear, PowerSecure, and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. SCS, the system service company, has contracted with Southern Company, each traditional electric operating company, Southern Power, Southern Company Gas, Southern Nuclear, SEGCO, and other subsidiaries to furnish, at direct or allocated cost and upon request, the following services: general executive and advisory, general and design engineering, operations, purchasing, accounting, finance, treasury, legal, tax, information technology, marketing, auditing, insurance and pension administration, human resources, systems and procedures, digital wireless communications, cellular tower space, and other services with respect to business and operations, construction management, and Southern Company power pool transactions. Southern Linc provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and also markets these services to the public and provides fiber optics services within the Southeast. Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding company subsidiary, primarily for Southern Company's leveraged lease and other investments. Southern Nuclear operates and provides services to the Southern Company system's nuclear power plants and is currently managing construction of and developing Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which are co-owned by Georgia Power. PowerSecure provides energy solutions to electric utilities and their customers in the areas of distributed generation, energy storage and renewables, and energy efficiency.

Segment information for Southern Company and Southern Company Gas is included in Note 16 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein.

The Registrants' Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are made available on Southern Company's website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably 

I-1

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Southern Company's internet address is www.southerncompany.com.

The Southern Company System

Traditional Electric Operating Companies

The traditional electric operating companies are vertically integrated utilities that own generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. See PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein for additional information on the traditional electric operating companies' generating facilities. Each company's transmission facilities are connected to the respective company's own generating plants and other sources of power (including certain generating plants owned by Southern Power) and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other traditional electric operating companies and SEGCO. For information on the State of Georgia's integrated transmission system, see "Territory Served by the Southern Company System – Traditional Electric Operating Companies and Southern Power" herein.

Agreements in effect with principal neighboring utility systems provide for capacity and energy transactions that may be entered into from time to time for reasons related to reliability or economics. Additionally, the traditional electric operating companies have entered into various reliability agreements with certain neighboring utilities, each of which provides for the establishment and periodic review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs, emergency operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power supply. The traditional electric operating companies have joined with other utilities in the Southeast to form the SERC to augment further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply. Through the SERC, the traditional electric operating companies are represented at the North American Electric Reliability Corporation.

The utility assets of the traditional electric operating companies and certain utility assets of Southern Power Company are operated as a single integrated electric system, or Southern Company power pool, pursuant to the IIC. Activities under the IIC are administered by SCS, which acts as agent for the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power Company. The fundamental purpose of the Southern Company power pool is to provide for the coordinated operation of the electric facilities in an effort to achieve the maximum possible economies consistent with the highest practicable reliability of service. Subject to service requirements and other operating limitations, system resources are committed and controlled through the application of centralized economic dispatch. Under the IIC, each traditional electric operating company and Southern Power Company retains its lowest cost energy resources for the benefit of its own customers and delivers any excess energy to the Southern Company power pool for use in serving customers of other traditional electric operating companies or Southern Power Company or for sale by the Southern Company power pool to third parties. The IIC provides for the recovery of specified costs associated with the affiliated operations thereunder, as well as the proportionate sharing of costs and revenues resulting from Southern Company power pool transactions with third parties. In connection with the sale of Gulf Power, an appendix was added to the IIC setting forth terms and conditions governing Gulf Power's continued participation in the IIC for a defined transition period that, subject to certain potential adjustments, is scheduled to end on January 1, 2024.

Southern Power and Southern Linc have secured from the traditional electric operating companies certain services which are furnished in compliance with FERC regulations.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power each have agreements with Southern Nuclear to operate the Southern Company system's existing nuclear plants, Plants Farley, Hatch, and Vogtle. In addition, Georgia Power has an agreement with Southern Nuclear to develop, license, construct, and operate Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. See "Regulation – Nuclear Regulation" herein for additional information.

Southern Power

Southern Power develops, constructs, acquires, owns, and manages power generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates (under authority from the FERC) in the wholesale market. Southern Power seeks opportunities to execute its strategy to create value through various transactions including acquisitions, dispositions, and sales of partnership interests, development and construction of new generating facilities, and entry into PPAs primarily with investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, electric cooperatives, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers. Southern Power's business activities are not subject to traditional state regulation like the traditional electric operating companies, but the majority of its business activities are subject to regulation by the FERC. Southern Power has attempted to insulate itself from significant fuel supply, fuel transportation, and electric transmission risks by generally making such risks the responsibility of the counterparties to its PPAs. However, Southern Power's future earnings will depend on the parameters of the wholesale market and the efficient operation of its wholesale generating assets, as well as Southern Power's ability to execute its growth strategy and to develop and construct generating facilities. For additional information on 

I-2

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Southern Power's business activities, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – OVERVIEW – "Business Activities" in Item 7 herein.

Southern Power Company directly owns and manages generation assets primarily in the Southeast, which are included in the Southern Company power pool, and has various subsidiaries, which were created to own and operate natural gas and renewable generation facilities either wholly or in partnership with various third parties. At December 31, 2019, Southern Power's generation fleet, which is owned in part with various partners, totaled 11,527 MWs of nameplate capacity in commercial operation (including 4,147 MWs of nameplate capacity owned by its subsidiaries and excluding Plant Mankato, which was sold to a subsidiary of Xcel on January 17, 2020). In addition, Southern Power Company has other subsidiaries that are pursuing additional natural gas generation and other renewable generation development opportunities. The generation assets of Southern Power subsidiaries are not included in the Southern Company power pool. See "Traditional Electric Operating Companies" herein for additional information on the Southern Company power pool.

During 2019, Southern Power completed the sale of its equity interests in a 115-MW biomass facility located in Nacogdoches County, Texas to Austin Energy.

A majority of Southern Power's partnerships in renewable facilities allow for the sharing of cash distributions and tax benefits at differing percentages, with Southern Power being the controlling member and thus consolidating the assets and operations of the partnerships. At December 31, 2019, Southern Power has four tax-equity partnership arrangements where the tax-equity investors receive substantially all of the tax benefits from the facilities, including ITCs and PTCs. In addition, Southern Power holds controlling interests in eight partnerships in solar facilities through SP Solar. For seven of these solar partnerships, Southern Power and its 33% partner, Global Atlantic, are entitled to 51% of all cash distributions and the respective partner that holds the Class B membership interests is entitled to 49% of all cash distributions. For the Desert Stateline partnership, Southern Power and Global Atlantic are entitled to 66% of all cash distributions and the Class B member is entitled to 34% of all cash distributions. In addition, Southern Power and Global Atlantic are entitled to substantially all of the federal tax benefits with respect to these eight partnership entities. Finally, for the Roserock partnership, Southern Power is entitled to 51% of all cash distributions and substantially all of the federal tax benefits, with the Class B member entitled to 49% of all cash distributions.

See PROPERTIES in Item 2 herein and Note 15 to the financial statements under "Southern Power" in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding Southern Power's acquisitions, dispositions, construction, and development projects. 

Southern Power calculates an investment coverage ratio for its generating assets, including those owned with various partners, based on the ratio of investment under contract to total investment using the respective generation facilities' net book value (or expected in-service value for facilities under construction) as the investment amount. With the inclusion of investments associated with the wind facilities currently under construction, as well as other capacity and energy contracts, and excluding Plant Mankato, which was sold on January 17, 2020, Southern Power's average investment coverage ratio at December 31, 2019 was 93% through 2024 and 90% through 2029, with an average remaining contract duration of approximately 14 years.

Southern Power's electricity sales from natural gas generating facilities are primarily through long-term PPAs that consist of two types of agreements. The first type, referred to as a unit or block sale, is a customer purchase from a dedicated plant unit where all or a portion of the generation from that unit is reserved for that customer. Southern Power typically has the ability to serve the unit or block sale customer from an alternate resource. The second type, referred to as requirements service, provides that Southern Power serves the customer's capacity and energy requirements from a combination of the customer's own generating units and from Southern Power resources not dedicated to serve unit or block sales. Southern Power has rights to purchase power provided by the requirements customers' resources when economically viable. Capacity charges that form part of the PPA payments are designed to recover fixed and variable operations and maintenance costs based on dollars-per-kilowatt year and to provide a return on investment.

Southern Power's electricity sales from solar and wind (renewable) generating facilities are also primarily through long-term PPAs; however, these solar and wind PPAs do not have a capacity charge and customers either purchase the energy output of a dedicated renewable facility through an energy charge or provide Southern Power a certain fixed price for the electricity sold to the grid. As a result, Southern Power's ability to recover fixed and variable operations and maintenance expenses is dependent upon the level of energy generated from these facilities, which can be impacted by weather conditions, equipment performance, transmission constraints, and other factors. Generally, under the renewable generation PPAs, the purchasing party retains the right to keep or resell the renewable energy credits.

I-3

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

The following tables set forth Southern Power's PPAs as of December 31, 2019: 

Natural Gas Block Sales PPAs

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Block Sales PPAs (continued)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The MWs and related facility units may change due to unit rating changes or assignment of units to contracts.

(2)PPA block sales to current requirement services PPA counterparties.

(3)Georgia Power will be served by Plant Harris Unit 2 through May 2020.

(4)AMEA will be served by Plant Franklin Unit 1 through May 2020.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(6)Represents sale of power purchased from NCEMC under a PPA.

I-4

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Natural Gas Requirements Services PPAs

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents forecasted incremental capacity needs over the contract term.

Fuel Cell PPAs

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) MWs shown are for 100% of the PPA, which is based on demonstrated capacity of the facility.

Battery Storage PPAs

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) MWs shown are for 100% of the PPA, which is based on demonstrated capacity of the facility.

Solar/Wind PPAs

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

I-5

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Solar/Wind PPAs (continued)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) MWs shown are for 100% of the PPA, which is based on demonstrated capacity of the facility.

(2) Southern Power owns a 67% equity interest in SP Solar (a limited partnership indirectly owning all of Southern Power's solar facilities, except the Roserock and Gaskell West facilities). SP Solar is the 51% majority owner of Boulder 1, Garland, Henrietta, Imperial Valley, Lost Hills Blackwell, North Star, and Tranquillity; the 66% majority owner of Desert Stateline; and the sole owner of the remaining SP Solar facilities. Southern Power is the 51% majority owner of Roserock and also the controlling partner in a tax equity partnership owning Gaskell West. All of these entities are consolidated subsidiaries of Southern Power.

(3) See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Revenues – Concentration of Revenue" in Item 8 herein for additional information on Pacific Gas & Electric Company's bankruptcy filing.

(4) Southern Power is the controlling member in SP Wind (a tax equity entity owning all of Southern Power's wind facilities, except Cactus Flats, Wildhorse Mountain, and the two projects under construction, Reading and Skookumchuck). SP Wind is the 90.1% majority owner of Wake Wind and owns 100% of the remaining SP Wind facilities. Southern Power owns 100% of Reading and Skookumchuck and is the controlling partner in tax equity partnerships owning Cactus Flats and Wildhorse Mountain. All of these entities are consolidated subsidiaries of Southern Power.

(5) Subject to commercial operation.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, approximately 9.0% of Southern Power's revenues were derived from Georgia Power. Southern Power actively pursues replacement PPAs prior to the expiration of its current PPAs and anticipates that the revenues attributable to one customer may be replaced by revenues from a new customer; however, the expiration of any of Southern 

I-6

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Power's current PPAs without the successful remarketing of a replacement PPA could have a material negative impact on Southern Power's earnings but is not expected to have a material impact on Southern Company's earnings.

Southern Company Gas

Southern Company Gas is an energy services holding company whose primary business is the distribution of natural gas through the natural gas distribution utilities. Southern Company Gas is also involved in several other businesses that are complementary to the distribution of natural gas, including gas pipeline investments, wholesale gas services, and gas marketing services. Southern Company Gas also has an "all other" non-reportable segment that includes segments below the quantitative threshold for separate disclosure, including the storage and fuels operations, Pivotal LNG, and other subsidiaries that fall below the quantitative threshold for separate disclosure. See Note 15 under "Southern Company Gas – Proposed Sale of Pivotal LNG and Atlantic Coast Pipeline" in Item 8 herein for information regarding Southern Company Gas' pending disposition of its interests in Pivotal LNG and Atlantic Coast Pipeline.

Gas distribution operations, the largest segment of Southern Company Gas' business, operates, constructs, and maintains approximately 75,585 miles of natural gas pipelines and 14 storage facilities, with total capacity of 157 Bcf, to provide natural gas to residential, commercial, and industrial customers. Gas distribution operations serves approximately 4.3 million customers across four states.

Gas pipeline investments primarily consists of joint ventures in natural gas pipeline investments including a 50% interest in SNG, two significant pipeline construction projects, and a 50% joint ownership interest in the Dalton Pipeline. These natural gas pipelines enable the provision of diverse sources of natural gas supplies to the customers of Southern Company Gas. SNG, the largest natural gas pipeline investment, is the owner of a 7,000-mile pipeline connecting natural gas supply basins in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama to markets in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and Tennessee. For additional information on Southern Company Gas's pipeline projects, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – "Southern Company Gas – Pipeline Construction Projects" in Item 7 herein and Note 15 under "Southern Company Gas – Proposed Sale of Pivotal LNG and Atlantic Coast Pipeline" in Item 8 herein.

Wholesale gas services consists of Sequent and engages in natural gas storage and gas pipeline arbitrage and provides natural gas asset management and related logistical services to most of the natural gas distribution utilities as well as non-affiliate companies.

Gas marketing services is comprised of SouthStar, which serves approximately 631,000 natural gas commodity customers, markets gas to residential, commercial, and industrial customers, and offers energy-related products that provide natural gas price stability and utility bill management in competitive markets or markets that provide for customer choice.

Other Businesses

PowerSecure, which was acquired by Southern Company in 2016, provides energy solutions to electric utilities and their customers in the areas of distributed generation, energy storage and renewables, and energy efficiency.

Southern Holdings is an intermediate holding subsidiary, primarily for Southern Company's leveraged lease and other investments.

Southern Linc provides digital wireless communications for use by Southern Company and its subsidiary companies and also markets these services to the public. Southern Linc delivers multiple wireless communication options including push to talk, cellular service, text messaging, wireless internet access, and wireless data. Its system covers approximately 127,000 square miles in the Southeast. Southern Linc also provides fiber optics services within the Southeast through its subsidiary, Southern Telecom, Inc.

I-7

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Construction Programs

The subsidiary companies of Southern Company are engaged in continuous construction programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. For estimated construction and environmental expenditures for the periods 2020 through 2024, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY – "Capital Requirements" and "Contractual Obligations" in Item 7 herein. The Southern Company system's construction program consists of capital investment and capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In 2020, the construction program is expected to be apportioned approximately as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Totals may not add due to rounding.

(b)Includes the Subsidiary Registrants, as well as the other subsidiaries. See "Other Businesses" herein for additional information.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e)Does not include approximately $0.5 billion for planned expenditures for plant acquisitions and placeholder growth, which may vary materially due to market opportunities and Southern Power's ability to execute its growth strategy.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to environmental rules; changes in electric generating plants, including unit retirements and replacements and adding or changing fuel sources at existing electric generating units, to meet regulatory requirements; changes in FERC rules and regulations; state regulatory agency approvals; changes in the expected environmental compliance program; changes in legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; project scope and design changes; abnormal weather; delays in construction due to judicial or regulatory action; storm impacts; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. Additionally, Southern Power's planned expenditures for plant acquisitions may vary due to market opportunities and Southern Power's ability to execute its growth strategy.

The construction program of Georgia Power also includes Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which includes components based on new technology that only within the last few years began initial operation in the global nuclear industry at this scale and which may be subject to additional revised cost estimates during construction. See Note 2 to the financial statements under "Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding Georgia Power's construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.

I-8

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Also see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" in Item 7 herein for additional information with respect to certain existing and proposed environmental requirements and PROPERTIES – "Electric – Jointly-Owned Facilities" and – "Natural Gas – Jointly-Owned Properties" in Item 2 herein and Note 5 to the financial statements under "Joint Ownership Agreements" in Item 8 herein for additional information concerning Alabama Power's, Georgia Power's, and Mississippi Power's joint ownership of certain generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated utilities and Southern Company Gas' joint ownership of a pipeline facility.

Financing Programs

See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY in Item 7 herein and Note 8 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein for information concerning financing programs.

Fuel Supply

Electric

The traditional electric operating companies' and SEGCO's supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas and coal. Southern Power's supply of electricity is primarily fueled by natural gas. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION – "Southern Company – Electricity Business – Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses" and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATION under "Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses" for each of the traditional electric operating companies in Item 7 herein for information regarding the electricity generated and the average cost of fuel in cents per net KWH generated for the years 2018 and 2019.

The traditional electric operating companies have agreements in place from which they expect to receive substantially all of their 2020 coal burn requirements. These agreements have terms ranging between one and four years. Fuel procurement specifications, emission allowances, environmental control systems, and fuel changes have allowed the traditional electric operating companies to remain within limits set by applicable environmental regulations. As new environmental regulations are proposed that impact the utilization of coal, the traditional electric operating companies' fuel mix will be monitored to help ensure that the traditional electric operating companies remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, Southern Company and the traditional electric operating companies will continue to evaluate the need to purchase additional emissions allowances, the timing of capital expenditures for environmental control equipment, and potential unit retirements and replacements. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" in Item 7 herein for additional information on environmental matters.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power Company, has agreements in place for the natural gas burn requirements of the Southern Company system. For 2020, SCS has contracted for 530 Bcf of natural gas supply under agreements with remaining terms up to 14 years. In addition to natural gas supply, SCS has contracts in place for both firm natural gas transportation and storage. Management believes these contracts provide sufficient natural gas supplies, transportation, and storage to ensure normal operations of the Southern Company system's natural gas generating units.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have multiple contracts covering their nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services, and fuel fabrication with remaining terms ranging from one to 14 years. Management believes suppliers have sufficient nuclear fuel production capability to permit the normal operation of the Southern Company system's nuclear generating units.

Changes in fuel prices to the traditional electric operating companies are generally reflected in fuel adjustment clauses contained in rate schedules. See "Rate Matters – Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans" herein for additional information. Southern Power's natural gas PPAs generally provide that the counterparty is responsible for substantially all of the cost of fuel.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the United States, acting through the DOE, that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. The DOE failed to begin disposing of spent fuel in 1998, as required by the contracts, and Alabama Power and Georgia Power have pursued and are pursuing legal remedies against the government for breach of contract. See Note 3 to the financial statements under "Nuclear Fuel Disposal Costs" in Item 8 herein for additional information.

Natural Gas 

Advances in natural gas drilling in shale producing regions of the United States have resulted in historically high supplies of natural gas and low prices for natural gas. Procurement plans for natural gas supply and transportation to serve regulated utility customers are reviewed and approved by the regulatory agencies in the states where Southern Company Gas operates. Southern Company Gas purchases natural gas supplies in the open market by contracting with producers and marketers and, for the natural gas distribution utilities except Nicor Gas, from its wholly-owned subsidiary, Sequent, under asset management agreements approved by the applicable state regulatory agency. Southern Company Gas also contracts for transportation and 

I-9

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

storage services from interstate pipelines that are regulated by the FERC. When firm pipeline services are temporarily not needed, Southern Company Gas may release the services in the secondary market under FERC-approved capacity release provisions or utilize asset management arrangements, thereby reducing the net cost of natural gas charged to customers for most of the natural gas distribution utilities. Peak-use requirements are met through utilization of company-owned storage facilities, pipeline transportation capacity, purchased storage services, peaking facilities, and other supply sources, arranged by either transportation customers or Southern Company Gas.

Territory Served by the Southern Company System

Traditional Electric Operating Companies and Southern Power

The territory in which the traditional electric operating companies provide retail electric service comprises most of the states of Alabama and Georgia, together with southeastern Mississippi. In this territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems that obtain some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the traditional electric operating companies. As of December 31, 2019, the territory had an area of approximately 116,000 square miles and an estimated population of approximately 16 million. Southern Power sells wholesale electricity at market-based rates across various U.S. utility markets, primarily to investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers.

Alabama Power is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation, transmission, distribution, and purchase of electricity and the sale of electric service, at retail in approximately 400 cities and towns (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden, Mobile, Montgomery, and Tuscaloosa), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to 11 municipally-owned electric distribution systems, all of which are served indirectly through sales to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. The sales contract with AMEA is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2025. Alabama Power owns coal reserves near its Plant Gorgas site and uses the output of coal from the reserves in its generating plants. In addition, Alabama Power sells, and cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances and products and also markets and sells outdoor lighting services.

Georgia Power is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution, and purchase of electricity and the sale of electric service within the State of Georgia, at retail in over 530 cities and towns (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon, Rome, and Savannah), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to OPC, MEAG Power, Dalton, various EMCs, and non-affiliated utilities. Georgia Power also markets and sells outdoor lighting services and other customer-focused utility services.

Mississippi Power is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution, and purchase of electricity and the sale of electric service within 23 counties in southeastern Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian, and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution cooperative associations, and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

For information relating to KWH sales by customer classification for the traditional electric operating companies, see MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – RESULTS OF OPERATIONS in Item 7 herein. For information relating to the number of retail customers served by customer classification for the traditional electric operating companies, see SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA of Southern Company and each traditional electric operating company in Item 6 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of revenues for Southern Company, each traditional electric operating company, and Southern Power, see Item 7 herein and Note 1 to the financial statements under "Revenues – Traditional Electric Operating Companies" and " – Southern Power" and Note 4 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein.

As of December 31, 2019, there were approximately 62 electric cooperative distribution systems operating in the territories in which the traditional electric operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

One of these organizations, PowerSouth, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling power to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems, and other customers in south Alabama. As of December 31, 2019, PowerSouth owned generating units with approximately 2,100 MWs of nameplate capacity, including an undivided 8.16% ownership interest in Alabama Power's Plant Miller Units 1 and 2. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein and Note 5 to the financial statements under "Joint Ownership Agreements" in Item 8 herein for details of Alabama Power's joint-ownership with PowerSouth of a portion of Plant Miller. Alabama Power has system supply agreements with PowerSouth to provide 200 MWs of year-round capacity service through January 31, 2024 and 200 MWs of winter-only capacity service through December 31, 2023. In August 2019, Alabama Power agreed to provide PowerSouth an additional 100 MWs of year-round capacity service from November 1, 2020 through February 28, 2023, with the option to extend through May 31, 2023.

Alabama Power has entered into a separate agreement with PowerSouth involving interconnection between their systems. The delivery of capacity and energy from PowerSouth to certain distributing cooperatives in the service territory of Alabama Power is governed by the Southern Company/PowerSouth Network Transmission Service Agreement. The rates for this service to PowerSouth are on file with the FERC.

I-10

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

OPC is an EMC owned by its 38 retail electric distribution cooperatives, which provide retail electric service to customers in Georgia. OPC provides wholesale electric power to its members through its generation assets, some of which are jointly owned with Georgia Power, and power purchased from other suppliers. OPC and the 38 retail electric distribution cooperatives are members of Georgia Transmission Corporation, an EMC (GTC), which provides transmission services to its members and third parties. See PROPERTIES – "Electric – Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein and Note 5 to the financial statements under "Joint Ownership Agreements" in Item 8 herein for additional information regarding Georgia Power's jointly-owned facilities.

Mississippi Power has an interchange agreement with Cooperative Energy, a generating and transmitting cooperative, pursuant to which various services are provided.

As of December 31, 2019, there were approximately 72 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in the territory in which the traditional electric operating companies provide electric service at retail or wholesale.

As of December 31, 2019, 48 municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one county-owned system received their requirements through MEAG Power, which was established by a Georgia state statute in 1975. MEAG Power serves these requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and purchases from other resources. MEAG Power also has a pseudo scheduling and services agreement with Georgia Power. Dalton serves its requirements from self-owned generation facilities, some of which are jointly-owned with Georgia Power, and through purchases from Southern Power through a service agreement. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein and Note 5 to the financial statements under "Joint Ownership Agreements" in Item 8 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power has entered into substantially similar agreements with GTC, MEAG Power, and Dalton providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry the power and energy of all parties. The agreements require an investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in proportion to its respective share of the aggregate system load. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Southern Power has PPAs with Georgia Power, investor-owned utilities, IPPs, municipalities, electric cooperatives, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers. See "The Southern Company System – Southern Power" herein and MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Southern Power's Power Sales Agreements" in Item 7 herein for additional information.

SCS, acting on behalf of the traditional electric operating companies, also has a contract with SEPA providing for the use of the traditional electric operating companies' facilities at government expense to deliver to certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power allocated to them by SEPA from certain U.S. government hydroelectric projects.

Southern Company Gas

Southern Company Gas is engaged in the distribution of natural gas in four states through the natural gas distribution utilities. The natural gas distribution utilities construct, manage, and maintain intrastate natural gas pipelines and distribution facilities. Details of the natural gas distribution utilities at December 31, 2019 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For information relating to the sources of revenue for Southern Company Gas, see Item 7 herein and Note 1 to the financial statements under "Revenues – Southern Company Gas" and Note 4 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein. 

Competition

Electric 

The electric utility industry in the U.S. is continuing to evolve as a result of regulatory and competitive factors. The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy is influenced by various factors, including price, availability, technological advancements, service, and reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among other influences, regulatory, political, and environmental considerations, taxation, and supply.

I-11

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia are regulated by the Territorial Electric Service Act of 1973. Pursuant to standards set forth in this Act, the Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, this Act provides that any new customer locating outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load of at least 900 KWs may exercise a one-time choice for the life of the premises to receive electric service from the supplier of its choice.

Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued "Grandfather Certificates" of public convenience and necessity to Mississippi Power and to six distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then served in whole or in part by Mississippi Power, authorizing them to distribute electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state. The six cooperatives serve approximately 325,000 retail customers in a certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a "Grandfather Certificate," the utility holding such certificate may extend or maintain its electric system subject to certain regulatory approvals; extensions of facilities by such utility, or extensions of facilities into that area by other utilities, may not be made unless the Mississippi PSC grants a CPCN. Areas included in a CPCN that are subsequently annexed to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the CPCN, irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing municipality. On the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.

Generally, the traditional electric operating companies have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in varying degrees from the development and deployment of alternative energy sources such as self-generation (as described below) and distributed generation technologies, as well as other factors.

Southern Power competes with investor-owned utilities, IPPs, and others for wholesale energy sales across various U.S. utility markets. The needs of these markets are driven by the demands of end users and the generation available. Southern Power's success in wholesale energy sales is influenced by various factors including reliability and availability of Southern Power's plants, availability of transmission to serve the demand, price, and Southern Power's ability to contain costs.

As of December 31, 2019, Alabama Power had cogeneration contracts in effect with six industrial customers. Under the terms of these contracts, Alabama Power purchases excess energy generated by such companies. During 2019, Alabama Power purchased approximately 123 million KWHs from such companies at a cost of $3 million.

As of December 31, 2019, Georgia Power had contracts in effect to purchase generation from 33 small IPPs. During 2019, Georgia Power purchased 2.7 billion KWHs from such companies at a cost of $176 million. Georgia Power also has PPAs for electricity with six cogeneration facilities. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity output. During 2019, Georgia Power purchased 390 million KWHs at a cost of $31 million from these facilities.

As of December 31, 2019, Mississippi Power had a cogeneration agreement in effect with one of its industrial customers. Under the terms of this contract, Mississippi Power purchases any excess generation. During 2019, Mississippi Power did not make any such purchases.

Natural Gas 

Southern Company Gas' natural gas distribution utilities do not compete with other distributors of natural gas in their exclusive franchise territories but face competition from other energy products. Their principal competitors are electric utilities and fuel oil and propane providers serving the residential, commercial, and industrial markets in their service areas for customers who are considering switching to or from a natural gas appliance. 

Competition for heating as well as general household and small commercial energy needs generally occurs at the initial installation phase when the customer or builder makes decisions as to which types of equipment to install. Customers generally use the chosen energy source for the life of the equipment. 

Customer demand for natural gas could be affected by numerous factors, including:

•changes in the availability or price of natural gas and other forms of energy;

•general economic conditions;

•energy conservation, including state-supported energy efficiency programs;

•legislation and regulations; 

•the cost and capability to convert from natural gas to alternative energy products; and

•technological changes resulting in displacement or replacement of natural gas appliances.

The natural gas-related programs generally emphasize natural gas as the fuel of choice for customers and seek to expand the use of natural gas through a variety of promotional activities. In addition, Southern Company Gas partners with third-party entities to market the benefits of natural gas appliances.

The availability and affordability of natural gas have provided cost advantages and further opportunity for growth of the businesses.

I-12

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Seasonality

The demand for electric power and natural gas supply is affected by seasonal differences in the weather. While the electric power sales of some electric utilities peak in the summer, others peak in the winter. In the aggregate, during normal weather conditions, the Southern Company system's electric power sales peak during both the summer and winter. In most of the areas Southern Company Gas serves, natural gas demand peaks during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of the Registrants in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, the Subsidiary Registrants have historically sold less power and natural gas when weather conditions are milder.

Regulation

States

The traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities are subject to the jurisdiction of their respective state PSCs or applicable state regulatory agencies. These regulatory bodies have broad powers of supervision and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states, including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the Mississippi PSC), and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and the Mississippi PSC, in part, retail service territories. See "Territory Served by the Southern Company System" and "Rate Matters" herein for additional information.

Federal Power Act

The traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power Company and certain of its generation subsidiaries, and SEGCO are all public utilities engaged in wholesale sales of energy in interstate commerce and, therefore, are subject to the rate, financial, and accounting jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. The FERC must approve certain financings and allows an "at cost standard" for services rendered by system service companies such as SCS and Southern Nuclear. The FERC is also authorized to establish regional reliability organizations which enforce reliability standards, address impediments to the construction of transmission, and prohibit manipulative energy trading practices.

Alabama Power and Georgia Power are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect to their hydroelectric developments. As of December 31, 2019, among the hydroelectric projects subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing Alabama Power generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,670,000 KWs and 17 existing Georgia Power generating stations and one generating station partially owned by Georgia Power, with a combined aggregate installed capacity of 1,101,402 KWs.

In 2013, the FERC issued a new 30-year license to Alabama Power for Alabama Power's seven hydroelectric developments on the Coosa River (Weiss, Henry, Logan Martin, Lay, Mitchell, Jordan, and Bouldin). Alabama Power filed a petition requesting rehearing of the FERC order granting the relicense seeking revisions to several conditions of the license. In 2016, the FERC issued an order granting in part and denying in part Alabama Power's rehearing request. American Rivers and Alabama Rivers Alliance also filed multiple appeals of the FERC's 2013 order for the new 30-year license and, in July 2018, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the order and remanded the proceeding to the FERC. Alabama Power continues to operate the Coosa River developments under annual licenses issued by the FERC. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

In 2019, Alabama Power continued the process of developing an application to relicense the Harris Dam project on the Tallapoosa River, which is expected to be filed with the FERC by November 30, 2021. The current Harris Dam project license will expire on November 30, 2023.

In May 2018, Georgia Power filed an application to relicense the Wallace Dam project on the Oconee River. The current Wallace Dam project license will expire on June 1, 2020. In July 2018, Georgia Power filed a Notice of Intent to relicense the Lloyd Shoals project on the Ocmulgee River. The application to relicense the Lloyd Shoals project is expected to be filed with the FERC by December 31, 2021. The current Lloyd Shoals project license will expire on December 31, 2023. In December 2018, Georgia Power filed applications to surrender the Langdale and Riverview hydroelectric projects on the Chattahoochee River upon their license expirations on December 31, 2023. Both projects together represent 1,520 KWs of Georgia Power's hydro fleet capacity.

Georgia Power and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2026, for the Rocky Mountain project, a pure pumped storage facility of 903,000 KW installed capacity. See PROPERTIES – "Jointly-Owned Facilities" in Item 2 herein for additional information.

Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the years 2034-2066 in the case of Alabama Power's projects and in the years 2035-2044 in the case of Georgia Power's projects.

Upon or after the expiration of each license, the U.S. Government, by act of Congress, may take over the project or the FERC may relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee. In the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to 

I-13

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the fair value of the property, plus reasonable damages to other property of the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the property. The FERC may grant relicenses subject to certain requirements that could result in additional costs.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.

Nuclear Regulation

Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Nuclear are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978, as amended; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities also include protecting public health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity with antitrust laws.

The NRC licenses for Georgia Power's Plant Hatch Units 1 and 2 expire in 2034 and 2038, respectively. The NRC licenses for Alabama Power's Plant Farley Units 1 and 2 expire in 2037 and 2041, respectively. The NRC licenses for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 expire in 2047 and 2049, respectively.

In 2012, the NRC issued combined construction and operating licenses (COLs) for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Receipt of the COLs allowed full construction to begin. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Construction Programs – Nuclear Construction" in Item 7 herein and Note 2 to the financial statements under "Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" in Item 8 herein for additional information.

See Notes 3 and 6 to the financial statements under "Nuclear Insurance" and "Nuclear Decommissioning," respectively, in Item 8 herein for information on nuclear insurance and nuclear decommissioning costs.

Environmental Laws and Regulations

See "Construction Programs" herein, MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" in Item 7 herein, and Note 3 to the financial statements under "Environmental Remediation" and Note 6 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein for information concerning environmental laws and regulations impacting the Registrants.

Rate Matters

Rate Structure and Cost Recovery Plans

Electric

The rates and service regulations of the traditional electric operating companies are uniform for each class of service throughout their respective retail service territories. Rates for residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon KWHs used and include minimum charges. Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for commercial service are presently of the block type and, for large customers, the billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill charges. These large customers' rates are generally based upon usage by the customer and include rates with special features to encourage off-peak usage. Additionally, Alabama Power and Mississippi Power are generally allowed by their respective state PSCs to negotiate the terms and cost of service to large customers. Such terms and cost of service, however, are subject to final state PSC approval.

The traditional electric operating companies recover certain costs through a variety of forward-looking, cost-based rate mechanisms. Fuel and net purchased energy costs are recovered through specific fuel cost recovery provisions. These fuel cost recovery provisions are adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such costs as needed or on schedules as required by the respective PSCs. Approved compliance, storm damage, and certain other costs are recovered at Alabama Power and Mississippi Power through specific cost recovery mechanisms approved by their respective PSCs. Certain similar costs at Georgia Power are recovered through various base rate tariffs as approved by the Georgia PSC. Costs not recovered through specific cost recovery mechanisms are recovered at Alabama Power and Mississippi Power through annual, formulaic cost recovery proceedings and at Georgia Power through periodic base rate proceedings.

See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 herein and Note 2 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters and certain cost recovery mechanisms. Also, see "Integrated Resource Planning" herein for additional information.

I-14

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

The traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power Company and certain of its generation subsidiaries are authorized by the FERC to sell power to non-affiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate.

Mississippi Power serves long-term contracts with rural electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern Mississippi under cost-based electric tariffs, which are subject to regulation by the FERC. The contracts with these wholesale customers represented 15.7% of Mississippi Power's total operating revenues in 2019 and are generally subject to 10-year rolling cancellation notices. Historically, these wholesale customers have acted as a group and any changes in contractual relationships for one customer are likely to be followed by the other wholesale customers.

Natural Gas

Southern Company Gas' natural gas distribution utilities are subject to regulation and oversight by their respective state regulatory agencies. Rates charged to these customers vary according to customer class (residential, commercial, or industrial) and rate jurisdiction. These agencies approve rates designed to provide each natural gas distribution utility the opportunity to generate revenues to recover all prudently-incurred costs, including a return on rate base sufficient to pay interest on debt, and provide a reasonable return.

With the exception of Atlanta Gas Light, which operates in a deregulated environment in which Marketers rather than a traditional utility sell natural gas to end-use customers and earns revenue by charging rates to its customers based primarily on monthly fixed charges that are set by the Georgia PSC, the earnings of the natural gas distribution utilities can be affected by customer consumption patterns that are largely a function of weather conditions and price levels for natural gas. 

The natural gas distribution utilities, excluding Atlanta Gas Light, are authorized to use natural gas cost recovery mechanisms that adjust rates to reflect changes in the wholesale cost of natural gas and ensure recovery of all costs prudently incurred in purchasing natural gas for customers. In addition to natural gas cost recovery mechanisms, the natural gas distribution utilities have other cost recovery mechanisms, such as regulatory riders, which vary by utility but allow recovery of certain costs, such as those related to infrastructure replacement programs as well as environmental remediation and energy efficiency plans. 

See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Regulatory Matters – Southern Company Gas" in Item 7 herein and Note 2 to the financial statements under "Southern Company Gas" in Item 8 herein for a discussion of rate matters and certain cost recovery mechanisms.

Integrated Resource Planning

Each of the traditional electric operating companies continually evaluates its electric generating resources in order to ensure that it maintains a cost-effective and reliable mix of resources to meet the existing and future demand requirements of its customers. See MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL – "Environmental Matters" in Item 7 herein for a discussion of existing and potential environmental regulations that may impact the future generating resource needs of the traditional electric operating companies.

Alabama Power

Triennially, Alabama Power provides an IRP report to the Alabama PSC. This report overviews Alabama Power's resource planning process and contains information that serves as the foundation for certain decisions affecting Alabama Power's portfolio of supply-side and demand-side resources. The IRP report facilitates Alabama Power's ability to provide reliable and cost-effective electric service to customers, while accounting for the risks and uncertainties inherent in planning for resources sufficient to meet expected customer demand. Under State of Alabama law, a CCN must be obtained from the Alabama PSC before Alabama Power constructs any new generating facility, unless such construction is deemed an ordinary extension in the usual course of business. See Note 2 to the financial statements under "Alabama Power – Petition for Certificate of Convenience and Necessity" in Item 8 herein for additional information.

Georgia Power

Triennially, Georgia Power must file an IRP with the Georgia PSC that specifies how it intends to meet the future electric service needs of its customers through a combination of demand-side and supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC, under state law, must certify any new demand-side or supply-side resources for Georgia Power to receive cost recovery. Once certified, the lesser of actual or certified construction costs and purchased power costs is recoverable through rates. Certified costs may be excluded from recovery only on the basis of fraud, concealment, failure to disclose a material fact, imprudence, or criminal misconduct. See Note 2 to the financial statements under "Georgia Power – Rate Plans" and " – Integrated Resource Plan." Also see Note 2 under and "Georgia Power – Nuclear Construction" in Item 8 herein for additional information on the Georgia Nuclear Energy Financing Act and the Georgia PSC certification of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, which allow Georgia Power to recover certain financing costs for construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.

I-15

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Mississippi Power

In November 2019, the Mississippi PSC established the Integrated Resource Planning and Reporting Rule (IRP Rule), which is intended to allow electric utilities the flexibility to formulate long-term plans to best meet the needs of their customers through a combination of demand-side and supply-side resources and considering transmission needs. The IRP Rule establishes reporting requirements that include the filing of an IRP on a three-year cycle, with supply-side updates midway through the three-year cycle, and an annual report on energy delivery improvements. The IRP filing is not intended to supplant or replace the Mississippi PSC's existing regulatory processes for petition and approval of CCNs for new generating resources. Mississippi Power will file its first triennial IRP in compliance with the IRP Rule in April 2021.

In February 2018, the Mississippi PSC approved a settlement agreement related to cost recovery for the Kemper County energy facility, pursuant to which Mississippi Power filed a Reserve Margin Plan (RMP) in August 2018, which it updated on December 31, 2019. The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. For additional information, see Note 2 to the financial statements under "Mississippi Power – Reserve Margin Plan" in Item 8 herein.

Employee Relations

The Southern Company system had a total of 27,943 employees on its payroll at December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities have separate agreements with local unions of the IBEW and the Utilities Workers Union of America generally covering wages, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to operating, maintenance, and construction employees.

Alabama Power has agreements with the IBEW in effect through August 14, 2025. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

Georgia Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through June 30, 2021.

Mississippi Power has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions, which is in effect through May 1, 2024.

Southern Nuclear has a five-year agreement with the IBEW covering certain employees at Plants Hatch and Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2, which is in effect through June 30, 2021. A five-year agreement between Southern Nuclear and the IBEW representing certain employees at Plant Farley is in effect through August 15, 2024. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

The agreements also make the terms of the pension plans for the companies discussed above subject to collective bargaining with the unions at either a five-year or a 10-year cycle, depending upon union and company actions.

The natural gas distribution utilities have separate agreements with different local unions of the IBEW covering wages, benefits, working conditions, and procedures for handling grievances and arbitration. Nicor Gas' agreement with the IBEW is effective through February 29, 2020 and negotiations on a new agreement commenced on January 9, 2020. Virginia Natural Gas' agreement with the IBEW is effective through May 15, 2020. Notice has been given to Virginia Natural Gas by the IBEW of their intent to negotiate changes to the agreement prior to the expiration date. A new IBEW local union was certified at Atlanta Gas Light in April 2018 and negotiations for a new agreement are ongoing.

I-16

 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS