PART I  

Item 1.  

Business  

Overview  

Tripadvisor, Inc. (“Tripadvisor”, “the Company”, “we”, or “us”) is a leading online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip. We operate a global travel platform that connects the world’s largest audience of prospective travelers with travel partners through rich content, price comparison tools, and online reservation and related services for destinations, accommodations, travel activities and experiences, and restaurants. 

Under our flagship brand, Tripadvisor, we launched www.Tripadvisor.com in the United States in 2000. Since then, we have launched localized versions of the Tripadvisor website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. Tripadvisor features 859 million reviews and opinions on 8.6 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do – including 1.4 million hotels, inns, B&Bs and specialty lodging, 842,000 rental properties, 5.2 million restaurants and 1.2 million travel activities and experiences worldwide. Tripadvisor’s rich content and engaged community attract the world’s largest travel audience, based on monthly unique visitors, including 463 million average monthly unique visitors in the third quarter of 2019 during the peak summer travel season. 

In addition to the flagship Tripadvisor brand, we own and operate a portfolio of travel media brands and businesses, operating under various websites, including the following: www.airfarewatchdog.com, www.bokun.io, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.familyvacationcritic.com, www.flipkey.com, www.thefork.com (including www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.restorando.com, and www.bookatable.co.uk), www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.holidaywatchdog.com, www.housetrip.com, www.jetsetter.com, www.niumba.com, www.onetime.com, www.oyster.com, www.seatguru.com, www.singleplatform.com, www.smartertravel.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and www.viator.com.  

Our Industry and Market Opportunity  

We operate in the global travel industry, focusing exclusively on online travel and travel-related activity, and the online advertising market. 

According to Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, the annual global travel market represents $1.7 trillion in sales and is increasingly shifting online. As consumer online travel media consumption and online travel commerce activity increases, we believe travel and travel-related businesses will continue to allocate greater percentages of their marketing budgets to online channels in order to grow their businesses. We believe this creates a significant long-term growth opportunity for our business. 

Our Business Model  

Our businesses match demand, or consumers that seek to discover, research, price compare and book the best travel experiences online, with supply from travel partners around the world that provide travel accommodations and experiences.  

Consumer Offerings 

Tripadvisor enables consumers to plan, book and experience the perfect trip by providing content, supply, price, and convenience. Content and supply has enabled Tripadvisor to become a well-known global brand, one that has attracted the world’s largest travel audience, based on average monthly unique visitors, and influences a significant amount of travel commerce. We are focused on creating the best online experience in travel planning and booking, making it easier for consumers to research destinations and experiences, read and contribute user-generated content, compare destinations and businesses based on quality, price and availability, and complete bookings powered by our travel partners.  

2 

Travel Partners 

Our portfolio of travel-related websites enables our travel partners to be discovered, to advertise and to sell their services to a global travel audience. Travel partners may include hotel chains, independent hoteliers, online travel agencies, or OTAs, destination marketing organizations, and other travel-related and non-travel related product and service providers—that seek to market and sell their products and services to a global audience. We enable media advertising opportunities – and in some cases, facilitate transactions between consumers and travel partners in a number of ways, including by sending referrals to our travel partners’ websites, facilitating bookings on behalf of our travel partners, or by serving as the merchant of record – particularly in our Experiences and Rentals offerings – and by offering advertising placements on our websites and mobile apps. 

Segments and Products 

We manage our business based on the following reportable segments: (1) Hotels, Media & Platform and (2) Experiences & Dining.  

The Hotels, Media & Platform segment includes revenue generated from the following sources: 

•  

Tripadvisor-branded Hotels Revenue. Our largest source of Hotels, Media & Platform segment revenue is generated from click-based advertising on Tripadvisor-branded websites, which is primarily comprised of contextually-relevant booking links to our travel partners’ websites. Our click-based travel partners are predominantly OTAs and direct suppliers in the hotel category. Click-based advertising is generally priced on a cost-per-click, or “CPC”, basis, with payments from travel partners determined by the number of travelers who click on a link multiplied by the CPC rate for each specific click. CPC rates are determined in a dynamic, competitive auction process, also known as our hotel metasearch auction, where our travel partner CPC bids for rates and availability to be listed on our site are submitted. We also offer subscription-based advertising to hotel partners, owners of B&Bs and other specialty lodging properties, enabling subscribers to advertise their businesses on our websites, as well as manage and promote their website URL, email address, phone number, special offers and other information related to their business. Subscription-based advertising services are predominantly sold for a flat fee for a contracted period of time of one year or less. We also offer travel partners the opportunity to advertise and promote their business through hotel sponsored placements on our websites. This service is generally priced on a CPC basis, with payments from travel partners determined by the number of travelers who click on the sponsored link multiplied by the CPC rate for each specific click. CPC rates for hotel sponsored placements that our travel partners pay are based on a pre-determined contractual rate. In addition, transaction revenue is generated from our hotel instant booking feature, which enables hotel shoppers to book directly with a travel partner, with the latter serving as the merchant of record for the transaction, without leaving our website. We earn a commission from our travel partners for each traveler that completes a hotel reservation on our website based on a pre-determined contractual commission rate.   

•  

Tripadvisor-branded Display and Platform Revenue. We offer travel partners the ability to promote their brands in a contextually-relevant manner through a variety of display-based advertising placements on our websites. Our display-based advertising clients are predominantly direct suppliers of hotels, air travel and cruises, as well as destination marketing organizations. Other display advertising partners include OTAs and other travel-related businesses, as well as advertisers from non-travel categories. Display-based advertising is sold predominantly on a cost per thousand impressions, or CPM, basis.  

The Experiences & Dining segment includes revenue generated from the following sources:  

•  

Experiences. We provide information and services that allow consumers to research and book activities and attractions in popular travel destinations both through Viator, our dedicated Experiences offering, and on our Tripadvisor website and mobile apps. We also power travel activities and experiences booking capabilities to consumers on affiliate partner websites, including some of the world’s top airlines, hotel chains, and online and offline travel agencies. We work with local tour or travel  

3 

activities/experiences operators (“the supplier”) to provide consumers the ability to book tours, activities and experiences (“the activity”) in popular destinations worldwide. We generate commissions for each booking transaction we facilitate through our online reservation system. To a lesser extent, we earn commissions from affiliate partners, or third-party merchant partners who display and promote on their websites the supplier activities available on our platform to generate bookings. 

•  

Dining. We provide information and services for consumers to research and book restaurants in popular travel destinations through our dedicated restaurant reservations offering, TheFork, and on our Tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. TheFork is an online restaurant booking platform operating on a number of websites (including www.thefork.com, www.lafourchette.com, www.eltenedor.com, www.restorando.com and www.bookatable.co.uk), with a network of restaurant partners located primarily across the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”), Europe, Australia, and South America. We primarily generate transaction fees (or per seated diner fees) that are paid by restaurants for diners seated primarily from bookings through TheFork’s online reservation system. To a lesser extent, we also generate subscription fees for subscription-based advertising to restaurants, access to certain online reservation management services, marketing analytic tools, and menu syndication services provided by TheFork and Tripadvisor. In addition, we also offer restaurant partners the opportunity to advertise and promote their business through restaurant media advertising placements on our website. This service is generally priced on a CPC basis, with payments from restaurant partners determined by the number of users who click on the sponsored link multiplied by the CPC rate for each specific click. CPC rates for media advertising placements that our restaurant partners pay are based on a pre-determined contractual rate. 

Other is a combination of our Rentals, Flights/Cruises/Car, SmarterTravel, and Tripadvisor China business units and is not considered a reportable segment. Other includes revenue generated from the following sources:  

•  

Our Rentals offering provides information and services that allow travelers to research and book vacation and short-term rental properties, including full homes, condominiums, villas, beach properties, cabins and cottages. Rentals generates revenue primarily by offering individual property owners and managers the ability to list their properties on our websites and mobile apps thereby connecting with travelers through a free-to-list, commission-based option or, to a lesser extent, by an annual subscription-based fee structure. These properties are listed on www.flipkey.com, www.holidaylettings.co.uk, www.housetrip.com, www.niumba.com, www.vacationhomerentals.com, and on our Tripadvisor-branded websites and mobile apps. In addition, Other also includes revenue generated from flights, cruise, and car offerings on Tripadvisor, as well as revenue from non-Tripadvisor-branded websites not otherwise described above, such as www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com, www.onetime.com and www.smartertravel.com, and Tripadvisor China, which primarily includes click-based advertising and display-based advertising revenue. 

For further information regarding our segments, including a change in reportable segments during 2019, financial information, and the principal revenue streams within these segments, refer to “Note 1: Organization and Business Description” and “Note 18: Segment and Geographic Information” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Seasonality  

Consumers’ travel expenditures follow a seasonal pattern. Correspondingly, travel partners’ advertising investments and, therefore, our revenue and profits, also follow a seasonal pattern. Our financial performance tends to be seasonally highest in the second and third quarters of a given year, which includes the seasonal peak in consumer demand, traveler hotel and rental stays, and travel activities and experiences taken, compared to the first and fourth quarters, which represent seasonal low points. Significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends.  

Our Growth Strategy  

Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, estimates the annual global travel market (not including dining) at $1.7 trillion of bookings and we believe that Tripadvisor’s influence in the travel  

4 

ecosystem remains significant. Our growth strategy aims to increase revenue by deepening customer engagement on our platform by pursuing the following key strategies, including:  

•  

continue building products that reduce friction throughout the travel planning and trip-taking journey and delight travelers; 

•  

deepen consumer engagement with our platform (including, but not limited to, membership growth, mobile app engagement and overall repeat usage); 

•  

invest in technology to further improve our customer and supplier experiences; 

•  

deepen travel partner engagement with our platform by expanding the number of products and services we offer; 

•  

invest in and grow certain categories where we lead the broader travel market today and/or can leverage unique assets, such as hotel business to business (“B2B”) services, media advertising, experiences and restaurants; 

•  

leverage our technological and operational efficiencies; and 

•  

opportunistically pursue strategic acquisitions. 

Marketing and Competition  

We compete with other companies in attractive, rapidly evolving categories of the travel industry. In these areas, we compete for content, traffic, advertising dollars and, more generally, to attract and retain our users’ attention, both in terms of reach and engagement. Since our products and those of our competitors are typically free, we compete based on our brand, the quality and nature of our product offerings and our online travel search and price comparison services (or metasearch), rather than on price. As such, we invest heavily in constantly improving our user experience and expanding content, listings and bookable inventory.  

We also invest to amplify our global brand and raise consumer awareness of, and engagement with, our end-to-end product offerings. We leverage a number of online and offline marketing channels, including online search engines (primarily Google), social media, email and brand advertising (primarily television advertising). The relative success of our marketing strategy is more measurable on some of these channels than others, and can be influenced by changes that we, our travel partners, or our competitors make to our respective products and marketing strategies. During 2019, our total advertising expense was approximately $423 million, primarily driven by investments in online search engines, and to a lesser extent, investments in offline marketing channels, which was primarily television advertising. We intend to continue to promote brand awareness through both online and offline advertising efforts. We compete globally with both online and offline, established and emerging, providers of travel, lodging, experiences and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost.  

We also compete with different types of companies in the various markets and geographies where we operate, including large and small companies in the travel space as well as broader service providers. More specifically:  

•  

In our Hotels, Media & Platform segment, we compete, and in some cases partner, with the following businesses:  

o  

OTAs (including Expedia Group, Inc., or “Expedia”, Booking Holdings, Inc., or “Booking”, Trip.com Group Limited (formerly known as Ctrip.com International, Ltd) and their respective subsidiaries and operating companies);  

o  

hotel metasearch providers (including Google, trivago (a subsidiary of Expedia), Kayak and HotelsCombined (subsidiaries of Booking)); 

o  

large online search, social media, and marketplace platforms and companies (including Google, Facebook, Microsoft’s Bing, Yahoo, Baidu, Alibaba, and Amazon);  

o  

traditional offline travel agencies; and  

5 

o  

global hotel chains seeking to promote direct bookings.  

•  

We also compete with offerings in our Experiences & Dining segment. Experiences competes with online travel agencies, such as Airbnb, Booking, GetYourGuide and Klook; traditional travel agencies; online travel service providers; and wholesalers, among others. Dining competes with other online restaurant reservation services, such as SeatMe (owned by Yelp) and OpenTable (a subsidiary of Booking).  

Commercial Relationships  

We have a number of commercial relationships that are important to the success of our business. Although these relationships are memorialized in agreements, many of these agreements are for limited terms or are terminable at will or on short notice. As a result, we seek to ensure the mutual success of these relationships.  

We have commercial relationships with a majority of the world’s leading OTAs, as well as thousands of other travel partners, pursuant to which these companies primarily purchase traveler leads from us, generally on a click-based advertising basis. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 our two most significant travel partners were Expedia Group, Inc. and Booking Holdings, Inc., which each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue and together accounted for approximately 33%, 37% and 43% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. Nearly all of this concentration of revenue is recorded in the Tripadvisor-branded Hotels revenue line within our Hotels, Media & Platform segment for these reporting periods.  

Operations and Technology  

We have assembled a team of highly skilled software engineers, computer scientists, data scientists, network engineers and systems engineers whose expertise spans a broad range of technical areas, including a wide variety of open source operating systems, databases, languages, analytics, networking, scalable web architecture, operations and warehousing technologies. We make significant investments in product and feature development, data management, personalization technologies, scalable infrastructures, networking, data warehousing, and search engine technologies.  

Our systems infrastructure for Tripadvisor-branded websites is housed at two geographically separate facilities and hosted by Amazon Web Services. Our infrastructure installations have multiple communication links as well as continuous monitoring and engineering support. Each facility is fully self-sufficient and operational with its own hardware, networking, software and content, and is structured in an active/passive, fully redundant configuration. Substantially all of our software components, data, and content are replicated in multiple datacenters and development centers, as well as backed up at offsite locations. Our systems are monitored and protected though multiple layers of security. Several of our individual subsidiaries and businesses have their own data infrastructure and technology teams.  

Intellectual Property  

Our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology and trade secrets, is an important component of our business. We rely on our intellectual property rights in our content, proprietary technology, software code, ratings indexes, databases of reviews and forum content. We have acquired some of our intellectual property rights through licenses and content agreements with third parties and these arrangements may place restrictions on the use of our intellectual property.  

We protect our intellectual property by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions, as well as on international, national, federal, state and common law rights. We protect our brands by pursuing the trademark registration of our core brands, as appropriate, maintaining our trademark portfolio, securing contractual trademark rights protection when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. We also register copyrights and domain names as deemed appropriate. Additionally, we protect our trademarks, domain names and copyrights with the use of intellectual property licenses and an enforcement program.  

6 

We have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future inventions, as circumstances may warrant. However, many patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us.  

In connection with our copyrightable content, we post and institute procedures under the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and similar “host privilege” statutes worldwide to gain immunity from copyright liability for photographs, text and other content loaded on our sites by users. However, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity, and moderation efforts in the many jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our ability to claim immunity.  

From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement by us of the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially harm our business.  

Regulation  

We are subject to a number of laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the internet and relating to the travel industry, the vacation rental industry and the provision of travel services. As we continue to expand the reach of our brands into additional international markets, we are increasingly subject to additional laws and regulations. This includes laws and regulations regarding, among other matters, consumer privacy, libel, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, taxation, online payment services, competition and protection of minors. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. Many of these laws and regulations are being tested in courts, and could be interpreted by regulators and courts in ways that could harm our business. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations is often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving industry in which we operate.  

In addition, we provide advertising data and information and conduct marketing activities that are subject to consumer protection laws that regulate unfair and deceptive practices, domestically and internationally, including, in some countries, pricing display requirements, licensing and registration requirements and industry specific value-added tax regimes. The United States (as well as individual states), the European Union (as well as member states) and other countries have adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online editorial and user-generated content, data privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, and liability for third-party activities. It is difficult to accurately predict how such legislation will be interpreted and applied or whether new taxes or regulations will be imposed on our services, and whether or how we might be affected. Increased regulation of the internet could increase the cost of doing business or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.  

We are subject to laws that require protection of user privacy and user data. As our business has evolved, we have begun to receive and store a greater volume of personally identifiable data. This data is increasingly subject to laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. For example, the European Union, in May 2018, adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which requires companies, including ours, to meet enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data. In addition, the State of California adopted the Consumer Privacy Protection Act which became effective January 1, 2020 and also enhances privacy rights and consumer protection for residents of California. In addition, similar laws have been adopted or are currently under discussion in other jurisdictions. The enactment, interpretation and application of these laws is still in a state of flux.   

7 

Also, on June 23, 2016, the U.K. passed a referendum to exit the European Union, known as Brexit, and the U.K. ceased to be a member of the EU on January 31, 2020. The EU and U.K. will continue to work on the terms of the departure through a transition period ending December 31, 2020. Since the final terms of the U.K.’s exit from the European Union remain uncertain, we are unable to predict the effect Brexit will have on our business and results of operations; however, we will likely face new regulatory costs and challenges if the U.K. regulations diverge from those of the European Union.  

Corporate History, Equity Ownership and Voting Control 

Tripadvisor was co-founded in February 2000 by Stephen Kaufer, our current Chief Executive Officer and President. In April 2004, Tripadvisor was acquired by IAC/InterActiveCorp, or IAC. In August 2005, IAC spun-off its portfolio of travel brands, including Tripadvisor, into Expedia, at the time a separate newly-formed Delaware corporation. On December 20, 2011 Expedia completed a spin-off of Tripadvisor into a separate publicly-traded Delaware corporation. We refer to this second spin-off transaction as the “Spin-Off.” Following the Spin-Off, on December 21, 2011, Tripadvisor began trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ, as an independent public company under the trading symbol “TRIP.” 

On December 11, 2012, Liberty Interactive Corporation, or Liberty, purchased an aggregate of approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock of Tripadvisor from Barry Diller, our former Chairman of the Board of Directors and Senior Executive, and certain of his affiliates. As a result, Liberty beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our Class B common stock.  

On August 27, 2014, the entire beneficial ownership of our common stock and Class B common stock held by Liberty was acquired by Liberty Tripadvisor Holdings, Inc., or LTRIP. Simultaneously, Liberty, LTRIP’s former parent company, distributed, by means of a dividend, to the holders of its Liberty Ventures common stock, Liberty’s entire equity interest in LTRIP. We refer to this transaction as the “Liberty Spin-Off”. As a result of the Liberty Spin-Off, effective August 27, 2014, LTRIP became a separate, publicly traded company holding 100% of Liberty’s interest in Tripadvisor.  

As a result of these transactions, as of December 31, 2019, LTRIP beneficially owned approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock and 12.8 million shares of our Class B common stock, which constitute 14.6% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock. Assuming the conversion of all of LTRIP’s shares of Class B common stock into common stock, LTRIP would beneficially own 22.5% of the outstanding common stock. Because each share of Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share, LTRIP may be deemed to beneficially own equity securities representing 57.9% of our voting power. 

Employees  

As of December 31, 2019, we had 4,194 employees. Of these employees, 45% were based in the United States. We believe we have good relationships with our employees, including relationships with employees represented by international works councils or other similar organizations.  

Additional Information  

We maintain a corporate website at ir.tripadvisor.com. Except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the SEC.  

On our Investor Relations website (http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations), we provide our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports free of charge. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish these reports to the SEC or publish through press releases, public conference calls and certain webcasts. All documents filed electronically with the SEC (including reports, proxy and information statements and other information) are also available at www.sec.gov. Investors and others should be aware that we  

8 

use our investor relations website (http://ir.tripadvisor.com/investor-relations) to announce material financial information to our investors as well as communicate with the public about our company, our results of operations and other information.  

We post our code of business conduct and ethics, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers, senior financial officers and directors, on our corporate website at www.tripadvisor.com. We intend to disclose any waivers of the code of ethics for our executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, on our corporate website.  

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors