Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Overview  

Tripadvisor is a leading online travel company and our mission is to help people around the world plan, book and experience the perfect trip. We operate a global travel platform that connects the world’s largest audience of prospective travelers with travel partners through rich content, price comparison tools, and online reservation and related services for destinations, accommodations, travel activities and experiences, and restaurants. 

Under our flagship brand, Tripadvisor, we launched www.Tripadvisor.com in the United States in 2000. Since then, we have launched localized versions of the Tripadvisor website in 48 markets and 28 languages worldwide. Tripadvisor features 859 million reviews and opinions on 8.6 million places to stay, places to eat and things to do – including 1.4 million hotels, inns, B&Bs and specialty lodging, 842,000 rental properties, 5.2 million restaurants and 1.2 million travel activities and experiences worldwide. Tripadvisor’s rich content and engaged community attract the world’s largest travel audience, based on monthly unique visitors, including 463 million average monthly unique visitors in the third quarter of 2019 during the peak summer travel season. 

In addition to the flagship Tripadvisor brand, we own and operate a portfolio of websites and businesses, connected by the common goal of providing consumers the most comprehensive travel-planning and trip-taking resources in the travel industry. For additional information about our portfolio of brands and our business model, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1. “Business”, under the caption “Overview.” 

During the first quarter of 2019, as part of our continuous review of the business, we evaluated our operations and realigned the reportable segment information which our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, regularly assesses to evaluate performance for operating decision-making purposes, including evaluation and allocation of resources. The CODM for the Company is our Chief Executive Officer. The revised segment reporting structure includes the following reportable segments: (1) Hotels, Media & Platform; and (2) Experiences & Dining. For  

36 

further information on our segments, including the change in segments, and principal revenue streams within these segments refer to “Note 1: Organization and Business Description” and “Note 18: Segment and Geographic Information” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All prior period segment disclosure information has been reclassified to conform to the current reporting structure in this Form 10-K. These reclassifications had no effect on our consolidated financial statements in any period. 

Executive Financial Summary and Business Trends 

Tripadvisor is the world’s largest online travel site, as measured by average unique monthly visitors. As a result, Tripadvisor represents an attractive platform for travel partners – including hotel chains, independent hoteliers, OTAs, destination marketing organizations, and other travel-related and non-travel related product and service providers – who seek to market and sell their products and services to a global audience. Tripadvisor’s platform and product offerings enable consumers to discover, research and price shop a variety of travel products, including hotels, flights, cruises, cars, vacation rental properties, tours, travel activities and experiences, and restaurants; and book a number of these travel experiences either directly on our websites or mobile apps, or on our travel partners’ websites or mobile apps. Key drivers of our financial results are described below, including current trends affecting our business, and our segment reporting information. 

Business Trends  

The online travel industry in which we operate is large and growing and also remains highly dynamic and competitive. Our overall strategy is to deliver more value to consumers and travel partners in order to generate more monetization on our platform. While we operate with a long-term growth focus, our specific growth objectives and resource allocation strategies can differ in both duration and magnitude within our reportable segments. We describe these dynamics, as well as other trends in our business, below.  

Hotels, Media & Platform Segment 

We operate the Hotels, Media & Platform segment for profit while also driving increased customer and client engagement with – and high-margin media advertising revenue from – the Tripadvisor platform. We seek to achieve this by delivering consumers a holistic product experience and by offering travel partners a diversified number of advertising opportunities.  

For consumers, we seek to implement product enhancements that deliver a more engaging and comprehensive hotel shopping experience. This includes providing rich, immersive content – reviews, photos, videos and ratings, among other contributions – as well as increasing the number of travel partners and properties as well as the available hotel supply on our platform. We believe providing consumers tools to discover, research, price shop and book a comprehensive selection of accommodations, helps increase brand awareness and brand loyalty and, over time, can result in deeper consumer engagement, more qualified leads delivered to travel partners and greater monetization on our platform.  

We seek to monetize our influence and achieve revenue growth through hotel-related product improvements, supply and marketing efforts and customer advertising opportunities. We rely heavily on search engines, such as Google, to generate a significant amount of hotel shoppers to our websites, principally through SEM as well as through SEO. We define hotel shoppers as visitors who view either a listing of hotels in a city or on a specific hotel page. Given our ongoing focus on Hotels, Media & Platform profitability, a key ongoing objective is to attract or acquire hotel shoppers at or above our desired marketing return on investment targets. To that end, starting in mid-2017, we began to reduce inefficient direct selling and marketing investments on paid online channels, primarily SEM, to improve profitability. This reduced the number of hotel shoppers to our platform and reduced Tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue specifically in our hotel metasearch auction into 2019, while generating meaningful overall Hotels, Media & Platform segment profit growth and margin expansion, including year-over-year profit growth during both the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Following moderate revenue growth resulting from SEO during 2018, we experienced revenue headwinds in this marketing channel in 2019 and expect this trend to continue, which we believe is impacted by search engines (primarily Google) increasing the prominence of their own hotel products in search results. We believe executing our long-term growth strategy can enable us to deepen customer engagement on our platform, monetize our influence and stabilize – and eventually grow – Hotels,  

37 

Media & Platform segment revenue. For example, in Tripadvisor-branded display and platform revenue, we enable travel partners to amplify their brand, generate brand impressions, and potentially drive qualified leads and bookings for their businesses. Historically, we have limited both the type and number of display-based advertising opportunities we make available to travel partners, particularly on mobile phone, which, in turn, has limited display-based advertising revenue growth. However, we are working on initiatives to better leverage our audience, content, data, travel influence and platform breadth to open up new media advertising opportunities through a more modern, high-powered advertising suite spanning native, video and programmatic solutions. We also intend to deliver this broadened solution to a larger set of advertising travel endemic and non-travel endemic advertising partners, including industries such as airlines, finance and beauty.  

In addition, we are focused on initiatives to increase our traffic quality and deepen customer engagement on our platform, including membership growth, personalization, and mobile app initiatives we believe can lead to increased monetization over time in this segment. For example, there remains not only an opportunity to continue to grow our member base, but also to deepen member engagement by making membership more valued, through building communities and leveraging our content to further personalize trip-planning features.  

Experiences & Dining Segment 

During 2019, our Experiences & Dining segment growth strategy prioritized near-term investments for platform expansion and bookings and revenue growth. We increased investments in product, supply and marketing to enhance our long-term growth prospects. We have done this by, for example, growing bookable supply in newer experience categories in lower-priced options, such as events, tickets, and other experiences, and also non-English markets and mobile offerings. These categories have grown rapidly, and has added to our total bookable experience products which reached approximately 345,000 as of December 31, 2019. We believe offering consumers more selection can contribute to our goals to build deeper, more durable consumer relationships with our platform.  

We also continue to seek selective acquisition opportunities in this segment. For example, in December 2019, we acquired U.K.-based Bookatable, which offers an online restaurant reservation and booking platform. This further strengthens our position in certain of our existing European markets as well as expands us into new countries, such as the U.K., Germany, Austria, Finland and Norway. Once fully integrated, Bookatable should add approximately 14,000 more restaurants to TheFork’s online restaurant booking platform, which, including Bookatable, had approximately 84,000 total bookable restaurants, as of December 31, 2019. 

Over the long-term, our Experiences and Dining offerings enable us to deliver consumers a more comprehensive experience, which we believe will increase awareness of, loyalty to, and engagement with our products, drive more bookings to Experiences and Dining partners and generate greater revenue and increased profitability on our platform. Given the significant market opportunities in these large and growing categories, as well as competition aiming to provide consumers a similar multimodal experience, we expect to continue to invest to drive bookings and revenue growth. 

Other  

Other is a combination of our Rentals, Flights/Cruises/Car, SmarterTravel, and Tripadvisor China business units and is not considered a reportable segment. Profits have been relatively stable to positive and revenues have declined in recent periods primarily due to strategic re-alignments and resource re-allocation to other areas of our business. We operate these offerings opportunistically as they complement our overall strategic objectives to deliver more value to consumers and travel partners. 

Consolidated Results of Operations 

A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017 can be found in Part II, Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 22, 2019 (our “2018 Annual Report”). As previously noted, we revised our  

38 

reportable segments during 2019. Although not required, in order to complement our revenue discussion of fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017 in our 2018 Annual Report for investors, we presented below summary commentary describing the key drivers of revenue performance related to our principal revenue sources during that time frame conformed to our revised reportable segment structure.  

Results of Operations  

Selected Financial Data  

(in millions, except per share amounts and percentages)  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

39 

Revenue and Segment Information 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

n.m. = not meaningful 

(1)  

Other consists of our Rentals, Flights/Cruises/Car, SmarterTravel, and Tripadvisor China business units and does not constitute a reportable segment.  

(2)  

We define “Adjusted EBITDA Margin by Segment”, as Adjusted EBITDA by segment divided by revenue by segment. 

Hotels, Media & Platform Segment 

Hotels, Media & Platform segment revenue decreased by $62 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in our hotel metasearch auction revenue. We estimate that adverse changes in foreign currency negatively impacted revenue by 2% during this period. This decrease was partially offset to a lesser extent by an increase in our hotel sponsored placements advertising revenue. Hotels, Media & Platform segment revenue decreased by $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to a decrease in our hotel metasearch auction revenue, partially offset to a lesser extent by an increase in our hotel sponsored placements advertising. 

Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin in our Hotels, Media & Platform segment increased $49 million or to 40%, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to reduced direct selling and marketing expenses related to SEM and other online paid traffic acquisition channels, and television advertising, which more than offset the decrease in revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin in our Hotels, Media & Platform segment increased $62 million or to 33%, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to a decrease in our direct selling and marketing expenses related to SEM and other online paid traffic acquisition costs as we continued to optimize and improve our market efficiency from our online marketing campaigns, which more than offset the decrease in revenue.  

 Our Hotels, Media & Platform segment has two revenue sources, as described below: (1) Tripadvisor-branded hotels, which includes our Hotel auction and B2B revenue; and (2) Tripadvisor-branded display and platform (also referred to as media advertising in our discussion). The following is a detailed discussion of the revenue sources within our Hotels, Media & Platform segment: 

40 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Tripadvisor-branded Hotels Revenue  

Tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue primarily includes hotel metasearch auction revenue, and to a lesser extent hotel B2B revenue, which includes click-based revenue generated from hotel sponsored placements advertising that enable hotels to enhance their visibility on Tripadvisor hotel pages, and subscription-based advertising services that we offer to travel partners. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, 83%, 85%, and 85%, respectively, of our total Hotels, Media & Platform segment revenue was derived from Tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue.  

2019 vs. 2018 

Tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue decreased $69 million or 8% during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018. This decrease was due to factors impacting our hotel metasearch auction revenue, primarily reduced revenue generated through our SEO marketing channel, which we believe is impacted by search engines (primarily Google) increasing the prominence of their own hotel products in search results. Tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue was also impacted by our progressive optimizations in SEM and other online paid traffic acquisition spend, and to a lesser extent, the general trend of an increasing percentage of hotel shoppers visiting via mobile phones which monetize at a significantly lower rate than hotel shoppers visiting via desktop or tablet. Declines in Tripadvisor-branded hotels was partially offset to a lesser extent by growth in our hotel sponsored placements advertising revenue. Refer to “Note 4: Revenue Recognition” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of how our hotel metasearch auction works. 

2018 vs. 2017 

Tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue decreased $18 million or 2% during the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017. This decrease was primarily due to factors impacting our hotel metasearch auction revenue including travel partners bidding lower CPCs in our hotel metasearch auction during the second half of 2017, which created difficult year-over-year comparisons during the first half of 2018. The decrease in revenue can also be attributed to a significant reduction of our direct marketing spend on our least-profitable paid online marketing campaigns as part of our progressive optimizations in SEM and other online paid traffic acquisition spend, as well as a greater percentage of hotel shoppers visiting Tripadvisor-branded websites and apps on mobile phones. The decline in Tripadvisor-branded hotels revenue was partially offset to a lesser extent by growth in our hotel sponsored placements advertising revenue and product enhancements focused on increasing traffic quality. 

Tripadvisor-branded Display and Platform Revenue 

For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, 17%, 15%, and 15%, respectively, of our total Hotels, Media & Platform segment revenue was derived from Tripadvisor-branded display and platform revenue. Tripadvisor-branded display and platform revenue increased $7 million or 5% during the year ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in pricing and to a lesser extent, new initiatives launched in the later part of 2019. Tripadvisor-branded display and platform revenue decreased $3 million or 2% during the year ended December 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to a general trend of an increasing percentage of our traffic visiting our websites on mobile phones, which yielded smaller impression opportunities due to the smaller screen size. 

41 

Experiences & Dining Segment 

For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, our Experiences & Dining segment revenue accounted for 29%, 23% and 17%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenue. Experiences & Dining segment revenue increased by $84 million or 23% during the year ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily driven by growth in both Experiences and Dining bookings, including increased bookings and revenue from Tripadvisor websites, partially offset by adverse changes in foreign currency which we estimate negatively impacted Experiences and Dining revenue by 4%. Experiences & Dining segment revenue increased by $108 million or 41% during the year ended December 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily driven by growth in both Experiences and Restaurants bookings, including increased bookings and revenue from Tripadvisor websites. 

Experiences revenue growth during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2018 and 2017, respectively, was primarily driven by growth in consumer demand, mobile reservations, and bookable supply on our platform contributing to overall bookings growth as consumers are offered a greater selection of travel experiences, which we believe was supported by platform improvements for both consumers and suppliers and expansion. Dining revenue growth during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, when compared to the same periods in 2018 and 2017, respectively, was primarily driven by growth in the following: seated diners, bookable supply of restaurant listings, mobile reservations, dining sponsored placement revenue, and subscription service revenue, as well as, to a lesser extent, incremental revenue related to our 2019 acquisitions.  

Experiences & Dining segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased by $43 million or 90%, during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to increased people costs to drive product and supply investments, as well as increased marketing investments to fund long-term growth initiatives, partially offset by an increase in revenue, as noted above. Experiences & Dining segment Adjusted EBITDA increased by $25 million or 109%, during the year ended December 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in revenue, as noted above, partially offset by increased people costs to drive product and supply investments and increased marketing investments to fund long-term growth initiatives. 

Other  

Other revenue, which primarily includes click-based advertising and display-based advertising revenue from our Rentals, and Flights, Cruises and Car offerings on Tripadvisor, and non-Tripadvisor branded websites, such as www.smartertravel.com, www.bookingbuddy.com, www.cruisecritic.com and www.onetime.com, decreased by $77 million or 32% and $28 million or 10%, during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, when compared to the same periods in 2018 and 2017, respectively. This was primarily driven by the elimination of some marginal and unprofitable revenue within these offerings near the end of 2018, as well as strategic resource re-allocation of investment across other areas of our business and continued competition in our Rentals offering. 

 Adjusted EBITDA in Other increased $10 million or 22% during the year ended December 31, 2019, when compared to the same period in 2018, and increased $4 million or 10% during the year ended December 31, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017. These increases were primarily due to reduced costs related to marketing and operational re-alignments, primarily offset by a decrease in revenue, as described above.  

Consolidated Expenses  

Cost of Revenue  

Cost of revenue consists of expenses that are directly related or closely correlated to revenue generation, including direct costs, such as credit card and other booking transaction payment fees, data center costs, costs associated with prepaid tour tickets, ad serving fees, flight search fees, and other transaction costs. In addition, cost of revenue includes personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses for certain customer support personnel who are directly involved in revenue generation. 

42 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cost of revenue increased $8 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to increased direct costs from credit card payment and other transaction costs in our Experiences & Dining segment as a result of revenue growth and increased personnel and overhead costs related to additional headcount in our Experiences & Dining segment to support business growth, partially offset by decreased credit card transaction fees in Other.  

Selling and Marketing  

Selling and marketing expenses primarily consist of direct costs, including traffic generation costs from SEM and other online traffic acquisition costs, syndication costs and affiliate program commissions, social media costs, brand advertising (including television and other offline advertising), promotions and public relations. In addition, our sales and marketing expenses consist of indirect costs such as personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries, commissions, benefits, stock-based compensation, and bonuses for sales, sales support, customer support and marketing employees.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Direct selling and marketing costs decreased $120 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an overall decrease in SEM and other online traffic acquisition costs, as well as lower television advertising costs, driven by our Hotels, Media & Platform segment and Other, partially offset by an increase in similar marketing expenditures in our Experiences & Dining segment.  

Personnel and overhead costs increased $14 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in personnel and overhead costs related to additional headcount in our Experiences & Dining segment to support business growth, partially offset by decreased personnel and overhead costs in Other as a result of strategic personnel re-allocation across the business. 

Technology and Content  

Technology and content expenses consist primarily of personnel and overhead expenses, including salaries and benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and bonuses for salaried employees and contractors engaged in the design, development, testing, content support, and maintenance of our websites and mobile apps. Other costs include licensing, maintenance expense, computer supplies, telecom costs, content translation and localization costs, and consulting costs. 

43 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Technology and content costs increased $19 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018. Personnel and overhead costs increased by $15 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to additional headcount in our Experiences & Dining segment to support business growth, partially offset by a decrease of personnel and overhead costs in Other as a result of strategic personnel re-allocation across the business.  

General and Administrative  

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead costs, including personnel engaged in leadership, finance, legal, and human resources, as well as stock-based compensation expense for those same personnel. General and administrative costs also include professional service fees and other fees including audit, legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including bad debt expense, non-income taxes, such as sales, use and other non-income related taxes.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

General and administrative costs increased $10 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018. Personnel and overhead costs increased $6 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily related to additional headcount in our Experiences & Dining segment to support business growth and, to a lesser extent, our Hotels, Media & Platform segment, partially offset by a decrease in personnel and overhead costs in Other as a result of strategic personnel re-allocation across the business. Professional service fees and other increased $4 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily related to $3 million of French digital service tax recorded during 2019, in addition to increased professional service fees and acquisition-related costs of $5 million, partially offset by a decrease of $5 million in legal reserves and settlements during 2019.  

44 

Depreciation  

Depreciation expense consists of depreciation on computer equipment, leasehold improvements, furniture, office equipment and other assets, and amortization of capitalized software and website development costs and right-of-use (“ROU”) assets related to our finance lease. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Depreciation expense increased $11 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to incremental amortization of $6 million for the ROU asset related to our Headquarters Lease recorded upon adoption of ASC 842 and to a lesser extent increased amortization related to capitalized software and website development costs. Refer to “Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our adoption of ASC 842.  

Interest Expense 

Interest expense primarily consists of interest incurred, commitment fees and debt issuance cost amortization related to our 2015 Credit Facility, Chinese Credit Facilities, as well as interest on finance leases. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest expense decreased $5 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower finance costs related to our Headquarters Lease under ASC 842 and no outstanding borrowings on our 2015 Credit Facility during 2019. Refer to “Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our adoption of ASC 842.  

Interest Income  

Interest income primarily consists of interest earned from our money market funds and marketable securities, including amortization of discounts and premiums on our marketable securities. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest income increased $10 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to an increase in interest income earned from our money market funds and other investments related to increased average interest rates and increased average invested funds during 2019.  

Other Income (Expense), Net 

Other income (expense), net primarily consists of net foreign exchange gains and losses, gains (losses) and impairments from non-marketable investments, and other non-operating income (expenses).  

45 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other income (expense), net decreased $2 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to lower foreign currency transaction losses as a result of the fluctuation of foreign exchange rates during 2019, partially offset by net increases in other non-operating expenses. Refer to “Note 19: Other Income (Expense), Net” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

Provision for Income Taxes  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The 2017 Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017, and resulted in significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. These changes include a federal statutory rate reduction from 35% to 21%, the elimination or reduction of certain domestic deductions and credits and limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation. The 2017 Tax Act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). These changes were effective beginning January 1, 2018. Refer to “Note 11: Income Taxes” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information on the financial statement impact of the 2017 Tax Act. 

Our effective income tax rate is higher than the federal statutory rate in the United States primarily due to foreign valuation allowances, unrecognized tax benefits, and non-deductible stock based compensation. This was partially offset by international provisions from the 2017 Tax Act and research tax credits. 

Our effective income tax rate increased to 35.1% during the year ended December 31, 2019 from 34.7% in the same period in 2018. The change in the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018, was primarily due to an income tax expense related to the reversal of a $15 million cumulative benefit taken for excluding stock-based compensation from our inter-company cost-sharing arrangements, partially offset by a release of valuation allowances on certain foreign deferred tax assets. Refer to “Note 11: Income Taxes” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding this $15 million adjustment and of the Altera Corporation (“Altera”) litigation with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). 

Adjusted EBITDA  

To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we also disclose consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. A “non-GAAP financial measure” refers to a numerical measure of a company’s historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in such company’s financial statements.  

Adjusted EBITDA is also our segment profit measure and a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate the financial performance of our business and on which internal budgets and forecasts are based and approved. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons and better enables management and investors to compare financial results between periods as these costs may vary independent of ongoing core business  

46 

performance. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus: (1) provision for income taxes; (2) other income (expense), net; (3) depreciation of property and equipment, including amortization of internal use software and website development; (4) amortization of intangible assets; (5) stock-based compensation and other stock-settled obligations; (6) goodwill, long-lived asset and intangible asset impairments; (7) legal reserves and settlements; (8) restructuring and other related reorganization costs; and (9) other non-recurring expenses and income. The items above are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are noncash in nature, or because the amount is not driven by ongoing core operating results and renders comparisons with prior periods less meaningful.  

During the fourth quarter of 2019, we revised our Adjusted EBITDA definition to exclude restructuring and other related reorganization costs, as we believe these costs are not directly tied to the ongoing core operations of our business. We believe that excluding these amounts better enables management and investors to compare financial results between periods as these costs may vary independent of business performance. This revision to our definition did not have a material impact to Adjusted EBITDA for any period prior to the year ended December 31, 2019; therefore, no reclassifications have been made to conform the prior periods to the current period presentation. This revision had no effect on consolidated GAAP results in any period. 

Our use of Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results reported in accordance with GAAP. Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including net income and our other GAAP results.  

Some of these limitations are:  

•  

Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments;  

•  

Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs;  

•  

Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the interest expense, or cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt, if any; 

•  

Adjusted EBITDA does not consider the potentially dilutive impact of stock-based compensation or other stock-settled obligations;  

•  

Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements;  

•  

Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect certain income and expenses not directly tied to the ongoing core operations of our business, such as legal reserves and settlements, restructuring and other related reorganization costs; 

•  

Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and  

•  

Other companies, including companies in our own industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.  

The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Net Income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented: 

47 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Our principal source of liquidity is cash flows generated from operations, although liquidity needs can also be met through drawdowns under our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had $319 million and $670 million, respectively, of cash, cash equivalents and short-term available-for-sale marketable debt securities. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $151 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our international subsidiaries outside of the United States of which approximately 50% were located in the U.K., with the majority of our international cash denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, and, to a lesser extent, British pounds, Australian dollars and other currencies. As of December 31, 2019, we had $619 million of cumulative undistributed earnings in foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, foreign earnings may now generally be repatriated back to the U.S. without incurring U.S. federal income tax. Historically, we have asserted our intention to indefinitely reinvest the cumulative undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. In response to increased cash requirements in the U.S. related to our declaration of a special cash dividend and other strategic initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2019, we determined that we no longer consider $501 million of these foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a deferred tax liability of $1 million for the U.S. state income tax and foreign withholding tax liabilities on the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings that are not indefinitely reinvested. We intend to indefinitely reinvest $118 million of our foreign earnings in our non-US subsidiaries. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable. Refer to “Note 11: Income Taxes” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.   

As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings and approximately $1.2 billion of borrowing capacity available under our 2015 Credit Facility (as defined below) and $30 million of borrowing capacity available under our Chinese Credit Facility—BOA (as defined below). For further discussion on our credit facilities, refer to “Note 10: Debt” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

2015 Credit Facility 

In June 2015, we entered into a five-year credit agreement with a group of lenders which, among other things, provided for a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2015 Credit Facility”) and immediately borrowed $290 million. In May 2017, the 2015 Credit Facility was amended to, among other things, (i) increase the aggregate amount of revolving loan commitments available from $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion; and (ii) extend the maturity date of the 2015 Credit Facility from June 26, 2020 to May 12, 2022 (the “First Amendment”). Borrowings under the 2015 Credit Facility generally bear interest, at the Company’s option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the Eurocurrency Borrowing rate, or the adjusted LIBO rate for the interest period in effect for such borrowing; plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.25% to 2.00% (“Eurocurrency Spread”), based on the Company’s leverage ratio; or (ii) the Alternate Base Rate (“ABR”) Borrowing, which is the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the New York Fed Bank Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1.00% per annum and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate (or LIBO rate multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate) for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%; in addition  

48 

to an applicable margin ranging from 0.25% to 1.00% (“ABR Spread”), based on the Company’s leverage ratio. The Company may borrow from the 2015 Credit Facility in U.S dollars, Euros and British pound.  

As of December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings and approximately $1.2 billion of borrowing capacity available under our 2015 Credit Facility. We are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee, at an applicable rate ranging from 0.15% to 0.30%, on the daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility for each fiscal quarter and additional fees in connection with the issuance of letters of credit. As of December 31, 2019, our unused revolver capacity was subject to a commitment fee of 0.15%, given the Company’s leverage ratio. The 2015 Credit Facility includes $15 million of borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and $40 million for Swingline borrowings on same-day notice.  

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repaid all of our outstanding borrowings, or approximately $230 million, under the 2015 Credit Facility. This repayment was primarily made from a one-time cash repatriation of $325 million of foreign earnings to the United States during the year ended December 31, 2018. We recorded total interest expense and commitment fees on our 2015 Credit Facility of $2 million, $3 million and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, to interest expense on our consolidated statements of operations. 

The 2015 Credit Facility contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, create liens, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, engage in mergers or consolidations, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends and distributions, make investments, loans or advances, prepay certain subordinated indebtedness, make certain acquisitions, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, amend material agreements governing certain subordinated indebtedness, and change our fiscal year. The 2015 Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio and contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default, including a change of control. If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the 2015 Credit Facility will be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of all amounts due under the 2015 Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants.  

Chinese Credit Facilities  

We are party to a $30 million, one-year revolving credit facility with the Bank of America (the “Chinese Credit Facility—BOA”) that is currently subject to review on a periodic basis with no specific expiration period. This credit facility generally bears interest at a rate based on the People’s Bank of China benchmark, including certain adjustments, which may be made in accordance with market conditions at the time of borrowing. As of both December 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility. 

Significant uses of capital  

On January 25, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we repurchased a total of 6,079,003 shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $250 million, and completed this share repurchase program. 

On January 31, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase of up to $250 million of our shares of common stock under a share repurchase program. This share repurchase program has no expiration date but may be suspended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased 2,582,198 shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $100 million. As of December 31, 2018, we had $150 million remaining available to repurchase shares of our common stock under this share repurchase program. 

On November 1, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $100 million in shares of our common stock under our existing share repurchase program, which increased the amount available to the Company under this share repurchase program to $250 million. This share repurchase program has no expiration date but may be suspended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased 2,059,846 shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $60  

49 

million. As of December 31, 2019, we had $190 million remaining available to repurchase shares of our common stock under this share repurchase program. 

On November 1, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $3.50 per share, or approximately $488 million in the aggregate. The dividend was payable on December 4, 2019 to stockholders of record on November 20, 2019. We funded this special cash dividend with available cash primarily from the U.S. and to a lesser extent from a foreign subsidiary, with any related income tax impact not material. 

During 2019, we paid $110 million, net of cash acquired, in connection with the following Dining segment acquisitions: (1) SinglePlatform, a leading online content management and syndication platform company based in the U.S., (2) BookaTable, an online restaurant reservation and booking platform company based in the U.K.; and (3) Restorando, an online restaurant reservation and booking platform company based in Argentina.  

Our business experiences seasonal fluctuations that affect the timing of our annual cash flows related to working capital. In our Experiences business and our Rentals free-to-list model, we generally receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts, net of commissions, on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant payables. We pay the suppliers, or the property rental owners and experience providers, after the travelers’ use. Therefore, we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying the supplier and this operating cycle represents a source or use of cash to us. During the first half of the year Rentals and Experiences bookings typically exceed the amount of completed stays and tour-taking, resulting in higher cash flow related to working capital, while during the second half of the year, particularly in the third quarter, this pattern reverses and cash flows from these transactions are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, further significant shifts in our business mix or adverse economic conditions could result in future seasonal patterns that are different from historical trends. In addition, new or different payment options offered to our customers could impact the timing of cash flows. For example, in September 2019 we introduced a new payment feature which allows our Experiences customers the option to reserve certain experience activities and defer payment until a date no later than two days before the experience date; as a result, this new payment option may affect the timing of our future cash flows.  

We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents, combined with expected cash flows generated by operating activities and available borrowings from our credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund our foreseeable working capital requirements, capital expenditures, existing business growth initiatives, debt obligations, lease commitments, and other financial commitments through at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements may also include capital needs for acquisitions, share repurchases, cash dividends, and/or other expenditures in support of our business strategy, and may potentially reduce our cash balance and/or increase our debt.  

Our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in our consolidated statements of cash flows, are summarized in the following table: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During the year ended December 31, 2019, our primary use of cash was for operations, financing activities, (including payment of a special cash dividend to common stockholders of $488 million, repurchases of our outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of $60 million under our existing share repurchase program, and withholding taxes on net share settlements of our equity awards of $29 million), and investing activities (including business acquisitions and other investments of $110 million, capital expenditures of $83 million and cash used of $133 million in purchases of marketable securities). This use of cash was funded with available cash and cash  

50 

equivalents, cash provided by operations, and also investing activities, which consisted of $150 million generated from sales and maturities of marketable securities.  

For the year ended December 31, 2019, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $19 million or 5% when compared to the same period in 2018. This increase in cash provided by operating activities was due to an increase in incremental non-cash items affecting cash flow of $18 million, which was primarily due to an increase in the following items: depreciation and stock-based compensation, an increase in net income of $13 million, all of which was partially offset by a decrease in working capital movements of $12 million, primarily due to the timing of customer receipts and vendor and merchant payments. 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, net cash used in investing activities increased by $127 million when compared to the same period in 2018, due to an increase in net cash paid for business acquisitions and other investments of $86 million, increase in net cash used from the purchases, sales and maturities of marketable securities of $31 million, and an increase in capital expenditures of $22 million, partially offset by a decrease in other investing activities of $12 million during the year ended December 31, 2018, which did not reoccur in 2019.  

For the year ended December 31, 2019, net cash used in financing activities increased by $222 million when compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a payment of a special cash dividend to common stockholders of $488 million in 2019, partially offset by a net repayment on our 2015 Credit Facility of $230 million during 2018, which did not reoccur in 2019, and a decrease in net cash used to purchase shares of our common stock under our existing share repurchase program of $40 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018.  

The following table summarizes our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2019:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(3)  

Expected commitment fee payments are based on the daily unused portion of the 2015 Credit Facility, issued letters of credit, and the effective commitment fee rate as of December 31, 2019; however, these variables could change significantly in the future.  

(4)  

Estimated purchase obligations that are fixed and determinable primarily related to telecommunication contracts, with various expiration dates through approximately December 2024. These contracts have non-cancelable terms or are cancelable only upon payment of significant penalty.  

(5)  

Excluded from the table was $167 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, which is included in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019, for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. We anticipate that the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by up to $12 million within the next twelve months due to the settlement of examinations of issues with tax authorities. Refer to “Note 11: Income Taxes” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.  

(6)  

Excluded from the table was $3 million of undrawn standby letters of credit, primarily related to our property leases. 

51 

As of December 31, 2019, other than the items discussed above, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.  

Office Lease Commitments  

In June 2013, we entered into a lease for a new corporate headquarters building. Pursuant to the Headquarters Lease, the landlord built an approximately 280,000 square foot rental building in Needham, Massachusetts, and leased the Premises to us as our corporate headquarters for an initial term of 15 years and 7 months or through December 2030. We also have an option to extend the term of our Headquarters Lease for two consecutive terms of five years each. We account for our Headquarters Lease as a finance lease as of December 31, 2019. 

In addition to our Headquarters Lease, we also have contractual obligations in the form of operating leases for our office space, in which we lease an aggregate of approximately 505,000 square feet of office space at approximately 50 other locations across North America, Europe, Asia Pacific and South America, in cities such as New York, Boston, London, Sydney, Barcelona, Buenos Aires, and Paris, primarily for our sales offices, subsidiary headquarters, and international management teams, pursuant to leases with various expiration dates, with the latest expiring in June 2027.  

Refer to “Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies,” under the Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements, for detailed discussion on the accounting impact of ASC 842, Leases on our property leases which the Company adopted on January 1, 2019.  

Contingencies  

In the ordinary course of business, we are party to regulatory and legal matters, including threats thereof, arising out of our operations. These matters may involve claims involving patent and intellectual property rights (including alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights), tax matters (including value-added, excise, transient occupancy and accommodation taxes), regulatory compliance (including competition, consumer matters and data privacy), defamation and other claims. Periodically, we review the status of all significant outstanding matters to assess any potential financial exposure. When (i) it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred; and (ii) the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record the estimated loss in our consolidated statements of operations. We provide disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies that do not meet both of these conditions if there is a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred that would be material to the consolidated financial statements. We base accruals on the best information available at the time which can be highly subjective. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, we do not believe that the final disposition of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business. However, the final outcome of these matters could vary significantly from our estimates. Finally, there may be claims or actions pending or threatened against us of which we are currently not aware and the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on us.  

We are also under audit by the IRS and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to income tax matters. We have reserved for potential adjustments to our provision for income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the period for which that determination is made.  

By virtue of consolidated income tax returns previously filed with Expedia, we are currently under an IRS audit for the 2009, 2010 and short-period 2011 tax years. We are separately under examination by the IRS for the short-period 2011 and 2012-2016 tax years, under an employment tax audit by the IRS for the 2013 and 2014 tax years, and have various ongoing audits for state income tax returns. These audits include questioning of the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. These  

52 

examinations may lead to proposed or ordinary course adjustments to our taxes. We are no longer subject to tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2009. As of December 31, 2019, no material assessments have resulted, except as noted below regarding our 2009, 2010, and 2011 IRS audit with Expedia and our 2012 and 2013 standalone IRS audit.  

In January 2017 and April 2019, as part of the IRS audit of Expedia, we received Notices of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. Subsequently, in September 2019, as part of Tripadvisor’s standalone audit, we received Notices of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for the 2012 and 2013 tax years. These proposed adjustments are related to certain transfer pricing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries, and would result in an increase to our worldwide income tax expense in an estimated range of $35 million to $40 million at the close of the audit if the IRS prevails, after consideration of competent authority relief and Transition Tax, exclusive of interest and penalties. We disagree with the proposed adjustments and we intend to defend our position through applicable administrative and, if necessary, judicial remedies. Our policy is to review and update tax reserves as facts and circumstances change. Based on our interpretation of the regulations and available case law, we believe the position we have taken with regard to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries is sustainable. In addition to the risk of additional tax for 2009 through 2013 transactions, if the IRS were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, we would be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. 

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, and issued the Action 1 report in 2015 to address the tax challenges arising from digitalization. Since then, the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework have issued various guidelines, policy notes, and proposals that if adopted could result in an overhaul of the international taxation system under which our current tax obligations are determined. As the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework drives toward a consensus long-term solution, several countries have introduced unilateral digital service tax initiatives which impose new types of non-income taxes, including taxes based on a percentage of revenue. In July 2019, France signed into law a 3% digital services tax to be applied retroactively as of January 1, 2019. We recorded an estimate of $3 million for digital service tax in general and administrative expense on our consolidated statement of operations during the year ended December 31, 2019; however, we continue to assess the financial impact of this new law. We are also monitoring other U.S. states and countries in which we do business, such as Italy, Spain, and the U.K., who have enacted or proposed similar taxes which will be applicable or are likely to be applicable at some point during 2020. We will continue to monitor developments and determine the financial impact worldwide of these initiatives.  

As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, foreign earnings may now generally be repatriated back to the U.S. without incurring U.S. federal income tax. Historically, we have asserted our intention to indefinitely reinvest the cumulative undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. In response to increased cash requirements in the U.S. related to our declaration of a special cash dividend and other strategic initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2019, we determined that we no longer consider $501 million of these foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a deferred tax liability of $1 million for the U.S. state income tax and foreign withholding tax liabilities on the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings that are not indefinitely reinvested. We intend to indefinitely reinvest $118 million of our foreign earnings in our non-US subsidiaries. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable. 

Refer to “Note 11: Income Taxes” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the impact of the 2017 Tax Act, potential contingencies surrounding current audits by the IRS and various other domestic and foreign tax authorities, and other income tax and non-income tax matters. 

Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions  

For information on our related party transactions, refer to “Note 17: Related Party Transactions” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

53 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with GAAP. Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. Management bases its estimates on historical experience, when applicable and other assumptions that it believes are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 

There are certain critical policies and estimates that we believe require that management use significant judgment and estimates in applying those policies in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: 

•  

It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and/or 

•  

Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 

Refer to “Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for an overview of our significant accounting policies and new accounting pronouncements that we have adopted or that we plan to adopt that have had or may have an impact on our financial statements.  

A discussion of information about the nature and rationale for our critical accounting estimates is below:  

Recognition and Recoverability of Goodwill, Definite-Lived Intangibles, and Other Long-Term Assets 

We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting which requires that the tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired and assumed liabilities be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer and supplier relationships, acquired technology and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate.  

We subsequently assess goodwill, which is not amortized, for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination as of the acquisition date. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, it no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition and becomes identified with the reporting unit in its entirety. Accordingly, the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is available to support the recoverability of its goodwill.  

The Company has the option to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. In the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we generally first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50%) that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. Periodically, we may choose to forgo the initial qualitative assessment and proceed directly to a quantitative analysis to assist in our annual evaluation. When assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for an individual reporting unit in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the size of the reporting unit's goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit's estimated fair value over carrying  

54 

value at the last quantitative assessment date, the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments from the date of acquisition to establish an updated baseline quantitative analysis, and other performance and market indicators. During a qualitative assessment, if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. If, however, we determine that it is more likely than not that the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying amount, we then perform a quantitative assessment and compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the goodwill impairment is measured using the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the reporting unit; however, any loss recognized cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 

In determining the estimated fair values of reporting units in a quantitative goodwill impairment test, we generally use a blend of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (discounted cash flows model) and the market valuation approach, which we believe compensates for the inherent risks of using either model on a stand-alone basis. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of the reporting unit; income tax rates and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business and other precedent transactions. Our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and/or income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. Valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under management's supervision, where appropriate. We believe that the estimated fair values assigned to our reporting units in impairment tests are based on reasonable assumptions that marketplace participants would use. However, such assumptions are inherently uncertain and actual results could differ from those estimates. The use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments could trigger the need for an impairment charge, or materially increase or decrease the amount of any such impairment charge. 

During the first quarter of 2019, the composition of our reportable segments was revised, as discussed in “Note 1: Organization and Business Description.” Prior to implementing the revised segment reporting structure, our previously disclosed Hotel segment was considered a single reporting unit. Following the change in reportable segments, our legacy Hotel reporting unit was split into four distinct reporting units – (1) Hotels, Media & Platform, (2) SmarterTravel, (3) Flights, Cruises and Car; and (4) Tripadvisor China for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing. As a result, we first performed a qualitative assessment on our previous Hotel reporting unit prior to implementing the revised segment reporting structure and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of this reporting unit was greater than the carrying value, which was consistent with our conclusion in the fourth quarter of 2018. We then performed a goodwill impairment test for each of the new reporting units upon the change in reportable segments using a quantitative assessment. We concluded the estimated fair values were significantly in excess of the carrying values for these reporting units. We also performed sensitivity analyses, such as calculating estimated fair values using different rates for the weighted-average cost of capital and long-term rates of growth in the income approach and different revenue/income multiples in our market approach, and the estimated fair values remained in excess of the carrying values. Therefore, no indications of impairment were identified as a result of these changes in the first quarter of 2019.  

During the Company's annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2019, a qualitative assessment was performed for the following reporting units: (1) Hotels, Media & Platform, (2) SmarterTravel, (3) Flights, Cruises and Car, (4) Dining; and (5) Experiences, while a quantitative assessment of the Rentals and Tripadvisor China reporting units goodwill was performed. For fiscal 2019, we determined the fair value of all our reporting units were in excess of their carrying values. Accordingly, we did not recognize any impairment charges during the year ending December 31, 2019. As part of our qualitative assessment for our 2019 goodwill impairment analysis of our reporting units, the factors that we considered included, but were not limited to: (a) changes in macroeconomic conditions in the overall economy and the specific markets in which we operate, (b) our ability to access capital, (c) changes in the online travel industry, (d) changes in the level of competition, (e) evaluation of current and future forecasted financial results of the reporting units, (f) comparison of our current financial performance to historical and budgeted results of the reporting units, (g) change in excess of the Company’s market capitalization over its book value including the decrease in the Company’s market price during 2019, (h) changes in estimates, valuation inputs, and/or assumptions since the last quantitative analysis of the reporting units, (i) changes  

55 

in the regulatory environment; (j) changes in strategic outlook or organizational structure and leadership of the reporting units; and (k) other relevant factors, and how these factors might impact specific performance in future periods.  

 We also periodically review the carrying amount of our definite-lived intangible assets and other long-term assets, including property and equipment and website and internal use software, to determine whether current events or circumstances indicate that such carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we assess the recoverability of the asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset of the group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows, using an appropriate discount rate. Any impairment would be measured by the amount that the carrying values, of such asset groups, exceed their fair value and would be included in operating income on the consolidated statement of operations. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate the fair value of asset groups. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. We have not identified any circumstances that would warrant an impairment charge for any recorded definite-lived intangibles or other long term assets on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2019. 

In addition, we hold investments in non-marketable equity securities of privately-held companies, which do not have a readily determinable fair value. Our policy is to measure these investments at cost less impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer such observable price changes may include instances where the investee issues equity securities to new investors, thus creating a new indicator of fair value, as an example. On a quarterly basis, we perform a qualitative assessment considering impairment indicators to evaluate whether these investments are impaired and also monitor for any observable price changes. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare a quantitative assessment of the fair value of our equity investments, which may include using both the market and income approaches which require judgment and the use of estimates, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and available comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. Valuations of such privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of liquid market for the company’s securities. In addition, such investments are inherently risky in that such companies are typically at an early stage of development, may have no or limited revenues, may not be or may never become profitable, may not be able to secure additional funding or their technologies, services or products may not be successfully developed or introduced into the market. 

Income Taxes  

We record income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. We determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. Accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted income tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider all relevant factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as assessing available tax planning strategies. We may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We classify deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent on our consolidated balance sheet. Due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates.  

We record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. The determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each  

56 

individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. For those positions for which we conclude it is more likely than not it will be sustained, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. The difference between the amount recognized and the total tax position is recorded as a liability. The ultimate resolution of these tax positions may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded.  

On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was signed into United States tax law. The legislation significantly changed U.S. tax law by, among other provisions, lowering corporate income tax rates, and imposing Transition Tax. The 2017 Tax Act permanently reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to a flat 21% rate, effective January 1, 2018. The 2017 Tax Act also provided for prospective changes that began in 2018. Under GAAP, the effects of changes in income tax rates and laws are recognized in the period in which the new legislation is enacted.  

We are subject to additional requirements of the 2017 Tax Act which began during the year ended December 31, 2018. Those provisions include a deduction for foreign derived intangible income (“FDII”), GILTI, a limitation of certain executive compensation, and other provisions which are not material. We have elected to account for GILTI as a period cost, and therefore included GILTI expense in the effective income tax rate calculation. Our 2019 effective income tax rate includes our estimates of these new provisions, with a net tax benefit of $3 million recorded during the year ended December 31, 2019 to our consolidated statement of operations. Our estimates may be revised in future periods as we obtain additional data, and as the IRS issues new guidance implementing the law changes. 

Refer to “Note 11: Income Taxes” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 on this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on income taxes.  

Item 7A.