Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

We, Varian Medical Systems, Inc., are a Delaware corporation originally incorporated in 1948 as Varian Associates, Inc. We are the world’s leading manufacturer of medical devices and software for treating cancer and other medical conditions with radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiotherapy, brachytherapy and proton therapy. We operate a hospital and a network of cancer centers in India and Sri Lanka; provide cancer care professional services to healthcare providers worldwide; and are a supplier of a broad portfolio of interventional solutions. 

Our vision is a world without fear of cancer. Our mission is to combine the ingenuity of people with the power of data and technology to achieve new victories against cancer. Our long-term growth and value creation strategy is to transform our company from the global leader in radiation therapy (also referred to as radiotherapy) to the global leader in multi-disciplinary, integrated cancer care solutions that leverage our strengths, technology, innovation and clinical experience. To achieve these long-term objectives, we are focused on driving growth through strengthening our leadership in radiation therapy, extending our global footprint and expanding into new markets and therapies.

We have two reportable operating segments: Oncology Systems and Proton Solutions. Our Interventional Solutions business is reflected in the "Other" category because it does not meet the criteria of a reportable operating segment. The operating segments were determined based on how our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”), views and evaluates our operations. The CODM allocates resources to and evaluates the financial performance of each operating segment primarily based on operating earnings. We report revenues in three regions. The Americas region includes North America (primarily the United States and Canada) and Latin America. The EMEA region includes Europe, Russia, the Middle East, India and Africa. The APAC region primarily includes East and Southeast Asia and Australia. 

Proposed Acquisition by Siemens Healthineers

On August 2, 2020, VMS, Siemens Healthineers, Merger Sub, and, with respect to certain provisions, the Guarantor, entered into the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, Merger Sub will be merged with and into VMS, with VMS surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Siemens Healthineers. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, which has been unanimously approved by VMS' Board of Directors, Siemens Healthineers will acquire all outstanding shares of VMS for $177.50 per share in cash, in a transaction valued at approximately $16.4 billion on a fully diluted basis. The Merger is expected to close in the first half of calendar year 2021, subject to receipt of specified regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. On October 15, 2020, VMS' stockholders approved and adopted the Merger Agreement. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, if the Merger Agreement is terminated by VMS or Siemens Healthineers under certain specified circumstances, a termination fee of $450.0 million in cash may be payable by VMS to Siemens Healthineers. The Merger Agreement also provides that a reverse termination fee of $450.0 million or $925.0 million in cash may be payable by Siemens Healthineers to VMS if the Merger Agreement is terminated by VMS or Siemens Healthineers under certain specified circumstances. 

COVID-19 Impact

The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our day-to-day operations and the operations of the vast majority of our customers, suppliers and distributors globally. The COVID-19 response by hospitals and healthcare professionals has placed a severe strain on healthcare systems. Many of our hospital customers have prioritized their efforts on their COVID-19 response and have diverted focus and resources away from their normal operations and restricted access to their sites in efforts to contain the spread of the virus. The global nature of the pandemic has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures designed to 

53

contain the virus, including travel bans and restrictions, border closures, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, business limitations and shutdowns. The prioritization of COVID-19 treatment and containment have presented us with unique operational challenges, including delays in capital equipment purchasing decisions by customers, obstacles to our ability to market, deliver, install and service our products, and disruptions and delays in our logistics and supply chain. 

Revenues and Orders Trends

The impact of COVID-19 on our operations has varied by region, with mixed impacts based on the geographical spread, stage of containment, and recurrence of the pandemic in each region. Our operations in China were impacted first, beginning early in the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020, followed by other parts of our Asia Pacific geography, with our EMEA and Americas geographies experiencing the initial impacts of the pandemic late in the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020. Our second quarter revenues were trending higher than the comparable second quarter fiscal 2019 period, until March 2020 when we started to experience a decline in hardware product revenues in our EMEA and Americas geographies due to the spread of COVID-19. In the third quarter of our fiscal year 2020, these trends in declining revenues continued across all of our geographies, both in comparison to the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020 and in comparison to our third quarter of fiscal 2019, with the exception of revenues from the China region, which increased with respect to both comparison periods, driven by recovery from COVID-19 in China which began at the end of the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020. In the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2020, we experienced improvement in revenues in comparison to the third quarter of our fiscal year 2020 in all three geographies, although our total revenues decreased by 3% in comparison to the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019. The sequential improvement in revenues was driven primarily by fourth quarter seasonality and to some extent by recovery in our Americas and EMEA geographies and continued recovery in China and other Asia Pacific countries. 

We have experienced adverse impacts to revenues for both our hardware and software products, primarily resulting from customer capital constraints, site access challenges and delays to pre-installation activities. We have experienced minimal impact to our services revenues and expect that our services revenues will continue to be reasonably insulated from COVID-19 given the long-term nature of the underlying contracts and our current installed base; however, installation and commissioning service revenues linked to hardware installation have trended downward, consistent with delays to hardware installations. If treatment volumes decline materially and impact hospitals’ operating costs, it may impact our service contract renewals, pricing and service revenues.

We have experienced similar trends in orders as we have in revenues. We began to experience delays in orders, primarily for capital equipment, during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020. Orders continued to decline across most regions during the third quarter of our fiscal year 2020, with our EMEA geography experiencing the most severe negative impact to orders and our Americas geography also experiencing significant negative impacts. However, in the third quarter of our fiscal year 2020 our APAC geography experienced an increase in orders both in comparison to the second quarter of our fiscal year 2020, driven by recovery in China, and in comparison to the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, driven by recovery in Southeast Asia and Korea. In the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2020, we experienced significant improvement in orders compared to the third quarter of our fiscal year 2020 in all three geographies, as our customers began to resume capital purchasing activity, although our total gross orders decreased by 8% in comparison to the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2019. 

We are not able to accurately predict the full impact that COVID-19 will have on our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties, including the duration and severity of the pandemic and the extent and effectiveness of containment measures imposed in different geographies. To the extent lockdown measures restrict access to customer sites and delay vault construction it could have an adverse impact on our revenues during our fiscal year 2021. In addition, a lack of coordinated COVID-19 response by the U.S. government could result in significant increases to the duration and severity of the pandemic in the United States. We expect that customer financial constraints, foreign currency headwinds, and uncertainty around the pandemic may lead our customers to defer capital equipment purchases during our fiscal year 2021. 

We believe that we will experience improvement in both our revenues and orders over the course of our fiscal year 2021 to the extent COVID-19 impacts to our operations continue to decrease as the pandemic is controlled. We believe that our existing orders backlog, together with recurring services revenues, should soften the impact of order delays on our revenues. Based on regional machine utilization trends, during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2020 radiation therapy treatment volume levels had been returning to historical averages in certain regions that experienced recovery from the pandemic, which we would expect to have a corresponding positive impact on hospital operating budgets; however, recently announced lockdown measures in response to resurgence of the pandemic in several countries could negatively impact utilization trends. We expect to continue to experience some logistical, manufacturing and shipment delays, and some increased logistics-related costs for so long as COVID-19 related travel and customer site access restrictions remain in place. 

54

General Increase in Risks

While we believe that orders trends and our revenues will return to historical norms over time as the pandemic is controlled, if the COVID-19 pandemic proliferates for an extended period, capital expenditure delays could be prolonged and have a material impact on revenues and orders well into our fiscal year 2021. Capital markets and worldwide economies have been significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and on June 8, 2020, the National Bureau of Economic Research announced that the United States was in recession. An extended economic recession in the United States or elsewhere could have a material adverse effect on our business over the longer term if hospitals reduce or curtail capital and overall spending. Some of our hospital customers may decide to no longer purchase our products or services, and certain of our customers, suppliers and distributors may become insolvent.

For additional information on risk factors that could impact our results, please refer to “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Our Response

Since the outbreak of the pandemic, our focus has been on keeping our employees safe, supporting our customers and their patients, and ensuring supply chain stability and business continuity. 

•Our employees are crucial to our mission, and we have taken the following actions to ensure their safety and well-being. 

◦We have instituted work-from-home policies and workplace safety measures and protocols, including strict site access guidelines and ensuring the availability of personal protective equipment. To support the health and well-being of our employees, customers, distributors, partners and communities, as of October 2, 2020, approximately 54% of our employees are working remotely, whereas typically only 15% of our employees, such as field service employees, work remotely.

◦We have implemented new programs aimed at educating our employees on how to operate in virtual, social-distancing environments.

◦During our second quarter of fiscal 2020, we closed our manufacturing facility in Beijing for approximately four weeks and placed our U.S. manufacturing and logistics facilities, including our Palo Alto manufacturing facility, in critical operations mode for approximately three weeks. Since May 2020, all of our manufacturing facilities have been fully operational. We have implemented stringent safety protocols at all of our manufacturing facilities, including rigorous health and safety training for all manufacturing employees and the institution of new workplace spacing requirements. 

•Our customers are facing unique challenges, and we are taking actions to support their priorities. Among other efforts, we are taking actions to ensure that all of our customers can continue to deliver radiation therapy, a non-elective procedure, to their patients, and we are actively deploying remote tools across our training, installation and field service teams to ensure continued access to our products and solutions. 

•Despite certain logistical and manufacturing challenges, to date, we have been successful in our efforts to secure and stabilize our global supply chain, and we are actively coordinating with our suppliers and distributors to maintain adequate inventory to fulfill our customer commitments.

•We have a solid balance sheet, as of October 2, 2020, with approximately $1.6 billion in accessible liquidity, including approximately $766 million in cash and cash equivalents and approximately $845 million available under our $1.2 billion revolving credit facility. To date, we have not experienced a significant decline in customer credit quality or a significant increase in requests for changes or extension of payment terms as a result of COVID-19, although we will continue to closely monitor these metrics going forward. While our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged, as a precautionary measure we have paused our share buybacks to preserve liquidity and are focused on reducing costs to bolster our financial flexibility in light of the broad range of potential outcomes over the foreseeable future. In our third and fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we implemented several cost cutting measures designed to preserve liquidity, including a reduction in force that impacted approximately 3% of our work force, a temporary reduction in certain employee benefits, and requiring our employees to take mandatory paid personal leave days during a set week in each of the third quarter and fourth quarters of our fiscal year 2020 and in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2021. 

55

Despite the challenges that we are facing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we remain confident that the actions that we are taking to manage such challenges, combined with our strong liquidity, position us well to navigate through the current economic environment and continue to execute on our long-term value creation strategy.

Highlights from fiscal year 2020 

Financial Summary 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

Tariff Measures. Between July 2018 and May 2019, the Trump Administration imposed a series of tariffs, ranging from 5% to 25%, on numerous products imported into the United States from China, including Varian’s radiotherapy systems manufactured in China and certain components used in our manufacturing and service activities. In July and August 2018, China retaliated against the U.S. tariffs by imposing its own series of tariffs, ranging from 10% to 25%, on certain products imported into China from the United States, including Varian’s radiotherapy systems and certain manufacturing and service components. 

We participated in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) process to seek product-specific exclusions from the U.S. tariffs on Chinese imports. To date, USTR has granted tariff exclusions for four products: certain radiotherapy systems manufactured in China, as well as three key components of the radiation therapy systems that we manufacture in the United States: multi-leaf collimators, certain printed circuit board assemblies and tungsten shielding. We submitted an additional U.S. exclusion request in September 2019, in relation to a manufacturing component, which was ultimately not granted. In 2019, USTR granted a one-year extension to our exclusion for radiotherapy systems through December 28, 2020. Two additional component exclusion extensions, for multi-leaf collimators and certain printed circuit board assemblies, have been granted through December 31, 2020. One additional exclusion request, for tungsten shielding, was not extended and expired on September 19, 2020. 

In June and July 2019, we submitted formal requests to the Chinese government for exclusions from the Chinese retaliatory tariffs for manufacturing inputs, service parts and radiotherapy systems imported into China from the United States. In September 2019, the Chinese government granted a tariff exclusion for medical linear accelerators, including our radiotherapy systems, with retroactive effect and valid through September 16, 2020. We requested and subsequently received a one year extension for this exclusion. We utilize a monthly exclusion program to further mitigate the tariffs on other items. In the aggregate, these tariffs will be referred to as "U.S./China tariffs." 

Impairment Charges. In the second half of fiscal year 2020, our Maryland Proton Treatment Center (“MPTC") Series B-1 and B-2 bonds (collectively "MPTC" bonds) and the Alabama Proton Treatment Center (“APTC") securities were determined to be 

56

other-than-temporarily impaired due to a decrease in trade prices of comparable bonds. We believed that it was more likely than not that we will not recover the losses before these bonds are sold, so we incurred impairment charges of $16.9 million on our MPTC bonds and $0.9 million on our APTC securities. In the second quarter, we recorded a $40.5 million impairment charge related to our California Proton Therapy Center ("CPTC") term loan (“Term Loan”) due to material negative impacts to CPTC's operating plan, including declines in current and projected patient volume and delays in partnership with a significant clinical partner primarily driven by the impact of COVID-19. The impairment charges are included in impairment and restructuring charges in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. See Note 15, "Proton Solutions Loans and Investment," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Restructuring Charges. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we implemented a global workforce reduction, as part of our plan to enhance operational performance through productivity initiatives, in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We incurred $18.7 million in restructuring charges, which primarily consisted of employee-related expenses, in fiscal year 2020. The Company paid $12.0 million related to these charges in fiscal year 2020, and the remaining balance of $6.7 million is expected to be paid in fiscal year 2021. As of October 2, 2020, we do expect to incur additional restructuring charges under this plan; however, these costs are not expected to be material. The restructuring charges are included in impairment and restructuring charges in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

Currency Fluctuations. In order to assist with the assessment of how our underlying businesses performed, we compare the percentage change in revenues and Oncology Systems gross orders from one period to another, excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations (i.e., using constant currency exchange rates). To present this information on a constant currency basis, we convert current period revenues and gross orders in currencies other than U.S. Dollars into U.S. Dollars using the comparable prior period’s average exchange rate. Percentage changes in revenues and gross orders are not adjusted for constant currency unless indicated. 

Currency fluctuations had a $11.7 million and a $1.6 million unfavorable impact on total revenues and Oncology Systems gross orders, respectively, in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019. We expect that fluctuations of non-U.S. Dollar currencies against the U.S. Dollar may continue to cause variability in our financial performance. 

Our Businesses 

Oncology Systems. Our Oncology Systems business designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer with conventional radiotherapy, and advanced treatments such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy (“IMRT”), image-guided radiation therapy (“IGRT”), volumetric modulated arc therapy (“VMAT”), stereotactic radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiotherapy, artificial intelligence based Adaptive Radiotherapy and brachytherapy as well as associated quality assurance equipment. Our software solutions include treatment planning, informatics, clinical knowledge exchange, patient care management, practice management and decision support for comprehensive cancer clinics, radiotherapy centers and medical oncology practices. We offer services ranging from hardware phone support, break/fix repair of linear accelerators, obsolescence protection of hardware, software support, software upgrades, hosting as a service, as well as clinical consulting services. 

We have expanded our services offerings to include clinical practice services that assist within the clinical workflow. These services focus on decision support and/or cancer care knowledge augmentation aimed to facilitate improved accessibility and affordability to care while maintaining a fundamental level of clinical quality. Further, we operate 13 multi-disciplinary cancer centers and one specialty hospital in India and one multi-disciplinary cancer center in Sri Lanka. We also expect to innovate and incubate new solutions such as technology-enabled services, and to develop additional technologies that incorporate artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities, in an environment of data security and patient privacy integrity.

Our primary goal in the Oncology Systems business is to promote the adoption of more advanced and effective cancer treatments. In our view, the fundamental market forces that drive long-term growth in our Oncology Systems business are the rise in cancer cases; technology advances and product developments that are leading to improvements in patient care and outcomes; customer demand for the more advanced and effective cancer treatments that we enable; competitive conditions among hospitals and clinics to offer such advanced treatments; continued improvement in safety and cost efficiency in delivering radiation therapy; and underserved medical needs outside of the United States. Approximately half of Oncology Systems gross orders and revenues come from international markets, within which certain emerging markets typically can have lower gross margins and longer installation cycles since many of these purchases are for new sites where treatment vaults need to be constructed. We have also been investing a higher portion of our Oncology Systems research and development budget in software and software-related products, which have a higher gross margin than our hardware products. 

57

Subject to the potential impact of COVID-19, we believe international markets will be our fastest growing markets. The radiation oncology market in North America is largely characterized by the replacements of older machines, with periodic increases in demand driven by the introduction of new technologies. Reimbursement rates in the United States have generally supported a favorable return on investment for the purchase of new radiotherapy equipment and technologies. While we believe that improved product functionality, greater cost-effectiveness and prospects for better clinical outcomes with new capabilities, such as IMRT, IGRT and VMAT, tend to drive demand for radiotherapy products, large changes in reimbursement rates or reimbursement structure can affect customer demand and cause market shifts. 

We believe that growth of the radiation oncology market in the United States could be impacted as customers’ decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding reimbursement rates and new models for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, such as the alternative payment model pilot program for radiation oncology released by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation Center in September of 2020, which is scheduled to start on July 1, 2021. This pilot program is intended to test whether an episode-based payment structure would reduce Medicare expenditures. We believe that this uncertainty will likely continue in future fiscal years and could impact transaction size, timing and purchasing processes, and also contribute to increased quarterly business variability as they recover from the COVID-19 pandemic.

Global demand for oncology equipment varies by geography and size of cancer burden. The number of new cancer cases diagnosed annually is projected to increase from approximately 18 million in 2018 to almost 25 million by 2030. Markets such as North America, developed Europe and Japan are primarily replacement markets with growth consistent with the aging cycle of the installed base and the aging of populations. Emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and Africa have large gaps in access to care and are expected to grow faster to address this gap. Variations in spend on oncology equipment will occur over time based on economic factors in individual countries. 

Proton Solutions. Our Proton Solutions business develops, designs, manufactures, sells and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam therapy using proton beams, for the treatment of cancer. Proton therapy is a preferred option for treating certain cancers, particularly tumors near critical structures such as the base of the skull, spine, optic nerve and most pediatric cancers. Although proton therapy has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to the high capital cost. 

We are investing resources to drive growth and innovation in this business. Proton therapy facilities are large-scale construction projects that have long lead times and involve significant customer investment and often complex project financing. Consequently, this business is vulnerable to general economic and market conditions, as well as reimbursement rates. Customer decision-making cycles tend to be very long, and orders generally involve many contingencies. The funding environment for large capital projects, such as proton therapy projects, remains challenging and volatile. Our current focus is bringing our expertise in traditional radiation therapy to proton therapy to improve its clinical utility, reduce its cost of treatment per patient and drive innovation, so that it is more widely accepted and deployed.

As of October 2, 2020, we had a total of $118.6 million of notes receivable including accrued interest, senior secured debt, available-for-sale securities, and loans outstanding to Proton Solutions customers. See Note 15, "Proton Solutions Loans and Investment," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Other. The Other category includes our Interventional Solutions business that offers products for interventional oncology and interventional radiology procedures and treatments, including cryoablation, microwave ablation and embolization. We also provide software and remote services for post treatment dose calculation for Yttrium-90 microspheres used in selective internal radiation therapy. Our goal is to offer a wide range of innovative products to the global oncology and radiology markets through a direct sales force and a network of distributors.

This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the information contained under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” We discuss our results of operations below.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We periodically review our accounting policies, estimates and assumptions and make adjustments when facts and circumstances dictate. In addition to the accounting policies that are more fully described in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we 

58

consider the critical accounting policies described below to be affected by critical accounting estimates. Our critical accounting policies that are affected by accounting estimates are included below. Such accounting policies require us to use judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates and assumptions regarding matters that are inherently uncertain, and actual results could differ materially from these estimates. For a discussion of how these estimates and other factors may affect our business, see Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

Revenue Recognition

Our revenues are derived primarily from the sale of hardware and software products, and services from our Oncology Systems, Proton Solutions and Interventional Solutions businesses. We recognize revenues net of any value added or sales tax and net of sales discounts.

We frequently enter into revenue arrangements with customers that contain multiple performance obligations including hardware, software, and services. Judgments as to the stand-alone selling price and allocation of consideration from an arrangement to the individual performance obligations, and the appropriate timing of revenue recognition are critical with respect to these arrangements.

Changes to the performance obligations, contract terms, credit worthiness, or right of return of the customer can impact the arrangement and the amounts allocated to each element could affect the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Revenue recognition also depends on the timing of shipment, readiness of customers’ facilities for installation, installation requirements, and availability of products. If shipments or installations are not made on scheduled timelines or if the products are not accepted by the customer in a timely manner, our reported revenues may differ materially from expectations.

Service revenues include revenues from hardware service contracts, software service agreements, bundled support arrangements, paid services and trainings, point in time patient services, and parts that are sold by our service department. Revenues allocated to service contracts are generally recognized ratably over the period of the related contracts. 

We recognize revenues on proton therapy contracts over the life of the project as costs are incurred. We recognize revenue related to our proton therapy systems over time because the customer controls the work in process, the Company's performance does not create an asset with alternative use to the Company, and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date. Changes in estimates of total contract revenue, total contract cost or the extent of progress towards completion are recognized in the period in which the changes in estimates are identified. Estimated losses on contracts are recognized in the period in which the loss is identified. In circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be reliably estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues to the extent of costs incurred until reliable estimates can be made. If and when we can make more reliable estimates, revenues and costs of revenues are adjusted in the same period. Recognizing revenue over time based on costs incurred requires the use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning the dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods. Because the estimates must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted, if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we may be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer.

Share-based Compensation Expense

We value our time-based stock options, purchase rights under the employee stock purchase plan, and cash-settled stock appreciation rights using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. We value our restricted stock units and deferred stock units using the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. We value performance units at fair market value and adjust the value according to the contingent market condition specified in the terms of those awards. We value performance-based options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and adjust the value according to the contingent market condition specified in the terms of those awards. In accordance with the guidance on share-based compensation, the fair value of cash-settled stock appreciation rights is recalculated at the end of each reporting period. 

The determination of the grant date fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant under both the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the Monte Carlo simulation model is affected by the Company’s stock price, as well as the input of other subjective assumptions, including, as applicable, the expected terms of share-based awards, the expected price volatilities of shares of the Company’s common stock and peer companies that are used to assess certain performance targets over the expected term of the awards, and the expected dividend yield of shares of the Company’s common stock. The expected term of our stock options and cash-settled stock appreciation rights is based on the observed and expected time for such awards to be exercised or cancelled. We use a blended volatility in deriving the expected volatility assumption for our stock options, performance-based options and cash-settled stock appreciation rights, which represents the weighted average of implied volatility and historical volatility. In determining the grant date fair value of our performance units and performance options, 

59

historical volatilities of shares of VMS common stock, as well as the shares of common stock of peer companies, were used to assess certain performance targets. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of our stock awards. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of no dividend payouts. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in future periods, the compensation expense that we record may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period.

We record forfeitures as they occur. We estimate the probability that certain performance conditions that affect the vesting of performance units and performance-based options will be achieved, and recognize expense only for those awards expected to vest. If the actual number of performance units and performance-based options that vest based on achievement of performance conditions are materially different from our estimates, the share-based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers prior to authorizing shipment for all major sale transactions. Except for government tenders, group purchases and orders with letters of credit in Oncology Systems, our payment terms often require payment of a small portion of the total amount due when the customer signs the purchase order, a significant amount upon transfer of risk of loss to the customer and the remaining amount due upon completion of the installation. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate aged items in the accounts receivable aging report and provide an allowance in an amount we deem adequate for doubtful accounts. If our evaluation of our customers’ financial conditions does not reflect our future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions may be needed, and our operating results could be negatively affected.

Impairment of Investments and Notes Receivable

We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our available-for-sale securities and notes receivable below their cost basis are determined to be other than temporary impairments (“OTTI”). We monitor our available-for-sale and notes receivable securities for possible OTTI on an ongoing basis. When there has been a decline in fair value of a debt security below the amortized cost basis, we recognize OTTI if: (i) we have the intention to sell the security; (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis; or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. 

We have equity investments in privately-held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. Our equity investments are measured at cost and are adjusted through net earnings when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment, and we make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition, near-term prospects and recent financing activities of the investee. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. 

At times, we advance notes to third parties, including our customers. We regularly assess these notes for collectability by considering internal factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the note balances as well as external factors such as economic conditions that may affect the note holder's ability to pay. 

Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described above could result in impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. 

Inventories 

Our inventories include technology parts and components that are highly specialized in nature and subject to rapid technological obsolescence. We have programs to minimize the required inventories on hand, and we regularly review inventory quantities on hand and on order and adjust for excess and obsolete inventory based primarily on historical usage rates and our estimates of product demand and production. Actual demand may differ from our estimates, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for obsolete and excess inventory, which would have an impact on our operating results.

Business Combinations

We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these 

60

identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows primarily from acquired technologies, patents, trade names, customer contracts, partner relationships and supplier relationships, useful lives and discount rates. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, which is not to exceed one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. 

We generally measure the fair value of our contingent consideration liabilities based on Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo pricing models with applicable key assumptions, including estimated revenues of the acquired business, the probability of completing certain milestone targets during the contingency period, volatility, and estimated discount rates corresponding to the periods of expected payments. If the estimated revenues or probability of completing certain milestones were to increase or decrease during the respective contingency period, the fair value of the contingent consideration would increase or decrease, respectively. If the estimated discount rates were to increase or decrease, the fair value of the contingent consideration would decrease or increase, respectively. Changes in volatility may result in an increase or decrease in the fair value of the contingent consideration.

Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairment Assessment 

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a business over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The determination of the value of the intangible assets acquired involves certain judgments and estimates. These judgments can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future and the appropriate discount weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC"). Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of amortization.

Goodwill is allocated to reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually or whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We can opt to perform a qualitative assessment to test a reporting unit’s goodwill for impairment or we can directly perform a quantitative assessment. Various factors are considered in the qualitative assessment, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, financial performance and other relevant events affecting the reporting unit. Based on our qualitative assessment, if we determine that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50 percent) to be less than its carrying amount, the quantitative assessment will be performed. The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of a reporting unit against its carrying amount, including the goodwill allocated to each reporting unit. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on a combination of income and market valuation approaches. The income approach is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows that the reporting unit is expected to generate, and the market approach is based on a market multiple calculated for each reporting unit based on market data of other companies engaged in similar business. Any excess of the reporting unit’s carrying value over its fair value will be recorded as an impairment loss. 

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates, operating margins and working capital needs to calculate projected future cash flows, WACC, future economic and market conditions, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain. Actual future results related to assumed variables could differ from these estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each reporting unit.

As of October 2, 2020, we have two reporting units with goodwill: Oncology Systems and Interventional Solutions, with balances of $454.7 million and $169.2 million, respectively. Due to certain indicators identified related to our Interventional Solutions reporting unit in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, including a significant decrease in near term revenue projections due to COVID-19, we identified a triggering event and performed an interim impairment test on $164.3 million of goodwill in our Interventional Solutions reporting unit, within the Other reportable operating segment. The fair value of the Interventional Solutions’ reporting unit was in excess of its carrying value by approximately $20 million, or 7%. Management believes the methodology and significant assumptions, revenue growth rates, operating margins, and weighted-average cost of capital used to calculate the fair value to be reasonable as of April 3, 2020. Management also performed the annual goodwill impairment assessment on its Interventional Solutions reporting unit, within the Other reportable operating segment, during the 

61

fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. Management determined that the fair value of the Interventional Solutions reporting unit was in excess of its carrying value by approximately $72 million, or 27%. Management believes the methodology and assumptions used to calculate the fair value to be reasonable as of July 3, 2020. However, the Interventional Solutions reporting unit could be at risk for a future goodwill impairment if there are adjustments to certain assumptions used in the fair value calculation, including revenue growth rates, operating margins, WACC and/or working capital requirements. Given the uncertain impact of COVID-19 and/or other market factors on our business, our cash flow projections for this business could decrease in the future, which could lead to an impairment of goodwill. 

In the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $50.5 million for the full value of the Proton Solutions reporting unit goodwill. See Note 6, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about the Proton Solutions goodwill impairment. 

Warranty Obligations

We warrant most of our products for a specific period of time, usually 12 months from installation, against material defects. In addition, we often include additional support services (training, help desk, maintenance) and recognize these services as separate purchase obligations along with our standard break/fix warranty cost accrual. We provide for the estimated future costs of warranty obligations in cost of revenues when the related revenues are recognized. The accrued warranty break/fix costs represent our best estimate at the time of sale of the total costs that we will incur to repair or replace product parts that fail while still under warranty. The amount of accrued estimated warranty costs obligation for established products is primarily based on historical experience as to product failures adjusted for current information on repair costs. For new products, estimates will include historical experience of similar products, as well as reasonable allowance for start-up expenses. Actual warranty costs could differ from the estimated amounts. On a quarterly basis, we review the accrued balances of our warranty obligations and update the historical warranty cost trends, if required. If we were required to accrue additional warranty costs in the future, it would have a negative effect on our operating results.

Loss Contingencies 

From time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations or other legal matters, both inside and outside the United States, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. We accrue amounts, to the extent they can be reasonably estimated, that we believe are adequate to address any liabilities related to legal proceedings and other loss contingencies that we believe will result in a probable loss. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties, outcomes are not predictable with assurance, and actual liabilities could significantly exceed our estimates of potential liabilities. In addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world. Those laws regulate multiple aspects of our operations, including the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous substances. They impose costs on our operations. In connection with our past and present operations and facilities, we record environmental remediation liabilities when we conclude that environmental assessments or remediation efforts are probable, and we believe we can reasonably estimate the costs of those efforts. Our accrued environmental costs represent our best estimate of the total costs of assessments and remediation and the time period over which we expect to incur those costs. We review these accrued balances quarterly. If we were required to increase or decrease the accrued environmental costs or other loss contingencies in the future, it would adversely or favorably impact our operating results.

Defined Benefit Pension Plans

We sponsor multiple defined benefit pension plans in Germany, India, Japan, Switzerland and the United Kingdom covering employees who meet the applicable eligibility requirements in these countries. Several statistical and other factors that attempt to anticipate future events are used in calculating the expenses and liabilities related to the aforementioned plans. These factors include assumptions about the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, and the rate of future compensation increases, all of which we determine within certain guidelines. In addition, we use assumptions, such as withdrawal and mortality rates, to calculate the expenses and liabilities. The actuarial assumptions we use are long-term assumptions and may differ materially from actual experience, particularly in the short term due to changing market and economic conditions and changing participant demographics. These differences may have a significant impact on the amount of defined benefit pension plan expenses we record.

The expected rates of return on the various defined benefit pension plans’ assets are based on the asset allocation of each plan and the long-term projected return on those assets. Discount rates enable us to report expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date. The discount rates used for defined benefit plans are primarily based on the current effective yield of long-term corporate bonds that are of high quality with satisfactory liquidity and credit rating with durations 

62

corresponding to the expected duration of the benefit obligations. A change in the discount rate may cause the present value of benefit obligations to change significantly. 

Taxes on Earnings

We are subject to taxes on earnings in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. As a global taxpayer, significant judgments and estimates are required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for taxes on earnings. We account for uncertainty in income taxes following a two-step approach for recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining whether the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that, based on the technical merits, the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Recognition and measurement are based on management’s best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the end of the accounting period.

Generally, the carrying value of our net deferred tax assets assumes that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable earnings in the applicable tax jurisdictions to utilize these deferred tax assets. Should we conclude it is more likely than not that we will be unable to recover our net deferred tax assets in these tax jurisdictions, we would increase our valuation allowance and our tax provision would increase in the period in which we make such a determination. 

Our effective tax rate is impacted by the proportion of our earnings generated in various geographies and subject to tax at differing rates in various tax jurisdictions.

Results of Operations

Fiscal Year

Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest September 30. Fiscal year 2020 was the 53-week period ended October 2, 2020, fiscal year 2019 was the 52-week period ended September 27, 2019, and fiscal year 2018 was the 52-week period ended September 28, 2018. 

Discussion of Results of Operations for Fiscal Years 2020 and 2019

A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2019, filed with the SEC on November 25, 2019, which is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at investors.varian.com.

Total Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total product revenues decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, mostly driven by a decline in hardware product revenues from Oncology Systems due to customer capital constraints, site access challenges and delays to pre-installation activities resulting from COVID-19 and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in product revenues from Proton Solutions, partially offset by an increase in revenues from the Other category. 

Total service revenues increased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to an increase in service revenues from Oncology Systems, which included an increase of approximately $47 million in service revenues from CTSI and an increase of approximately $16 million in service revenues from Proton Solutions. Total service revenues in Oncology Systems were 

63

negatively impacted by a decline in installation and commissioning services related to delays in hardware installations due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Fiscal year 2020 included approximately $19 million in additional service revenues due to fiscal year 2020 being a 53-week period. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) North America primarily includes the United States and Canada.

Revenues across all regions were negatively impacted by a decline in hardware product revenues from Oncology Systems due to site access challenges and delays to pre-installation activities resulting from COVID-19.

The Americas region revenues were flat in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to an increase in revenues from the Other category, mostly offset by decreases in revenues from Proton Solutions and Oncology Systems. The EMEA region revenues decreased in fiscal year 2020, over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to the decrease in revenues from Oncology Systems and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in revenues from Proton Solutions. The EMEA region revenues from Oncology Systems in fiscal year 2020 include an increase of approximately $34 million in service revenues from CTSI. The APAC region revenues increased in fiscal year 2020, over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to an increase in revenues from the Other Category, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from Oncology Systems.

Oncology Systems Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Oncology Systems product revenues in fiscal year 2020, decreased over fiscal year 2019, driven by a decline in hardware product revenues due to COVID-19 related delays, including site access restrictions and delays to customer installation readiness in second half of fiscal year 2020. 

Oncology Systems service revenues, which include performance obligations for installation, training and warranty, increased in fiscal year 2020, over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to the ongoing customer adoption of service contracts as the warranty periods on our systems expire and an increase in the number of customers as the installed base of our products continues to grow. Oncology Systems service revenues were negatively impacted by a decline in installation and commissioning services 

64

related to delays in hardware installations due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In fiscal year 2020, Oncology Systems service revenues also included an increase of approximately $47 million in service revenues from CTSI and approximately $19 million in additional service revenues due to fiscal year 2020 being a 53-week period. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Oncology Systems revenues decreased across all regions, in fiscal year 2020, driven by a decline in hardware product revenues due to COVID-19 related delays, including site access restrictions and delays to customer installation readiness in the second half of fiscal year 2020. Service revenues increased across all regions, but were also negatively impacted in the second half of fiscal year 2020 by a decline in installation and commissioning services related to delays in hardware installations due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

The Americas Oncology Systems revenues decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to a decrease in revenues from hardware products, partially offset by an increase in revenues from services. EMEA Oncology Systems revenues decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to a decrease in revenues from hardware products, partially offset by an increase in revenues from services. In fiscal year 2020, EMEA Oncology Systems revenues from services included an increase of approximately $34 million in revenues from CTSI. APAC Oncology Systems revenues decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to a decrease in revenues from software licenses and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in revenues from hardware products, partially offset by an increase in revenues from services. 

Variations of higher and lower revenues between the North America and international regions are impacted by regional factors influencing our gross orders, which include the impact of COVID-19, government spending, philanthropy/donations, timing of replacement or new site expansions, economic and political instability in some countries, uncertainty created by U.S. health care policy, such as the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and accountable care organizations, Medicare reimbursement rates and consolidation of free standing clinics in the United States, and different technology adoption cycles. See further discussion of orders under “Gross Orders.”

Proton Solutions Revenues 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Proton Solutions revenues decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to the timing of project completion and stage of progress, partially due to COVID-19, and fewer orders in fiscal year 2018 and the first half of fiscal year 2019. This was partially offset by an increase in service revenues resulting from the increase in proton centers transitioning to service contracts.

65

Other

Revenues from the Other category increased $29.9 million in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to fiscal year 2020 consisting of a full year of revenues compared to four months of revenues in fiscal year 2019. Revenues from the Other category are related to our Interventional Solutions business and are reported as product revenues. 

Gross Margin 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 n/m = not meaningful

Oncology Systems product gross margin percentage decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to manufacturing overhead under absorption due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as a geographical mix shift to emerging markets. In fiscal year 2019, the U.S./China tariffs had a negative impact, net of the expected refund for tariff exclusions, of $12 million, comprised of $4 million in revenues and $8 million in cost of revenues. Oncology Systems service gross margin percentage increased in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, primarily due to lower variable service costs due to COVID-19 in the second half of fiscal year 2020 and additional service revenues due to fiscal year 2020 being a 53-week period, partially offset by an increase in service revenues from CTSI, which have a lower margin than our traditional services.

Proton Solutions gross margin percentage decreased in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, primarily due to the mix of projects and increased project costs, partially offset by an increase in service revenues.

Other category gross margin percentage increased in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, primarily due to the amortization of the inventory step-up after the acquisition of Endocare and Alicon in the prior fiscal year.

Research and Development

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and development expenses increased $33.0 million in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to an increase in investments in software, flash technology, adaptive radiotherapy and other strategic programs. 

66

Selling, General and Administrative, Impairment and Restructuring Charges and Acquisition-Related Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $48.7 million in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to increases in our operations to support growth, including an increase in sales and marketing headcount related to our acquisitions in the second half of fiscal year 2019, and investments in product management for treatment planning in Oncology Systems, partially offset by cost-saving measures that were put in place in the second half of fiscal year 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, also include an increase of approximately $13 million in litigation and legal costs, and an increase of approximately $12 million in amortization expenses for intangible assets that were primarily related to our fiscal year 2019 acquisitions.

Impairment and restructuring charges in fiscal year 2020 were due to a $40.5 million impairment to the CPTC Term Loan, $18.7 million in restructuring charges and a $17.8 million impairment to our MPTC bonds and APTC securities. The $40.5 million impairment charge to the CPTC Term Loan was due to CPTC suffering material negative impacts to its operating plan, including declines in current and projected patient volume and delays in partnership with a significant clinical partner, during March and April 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The $18.7 million in restructuring charges were due to a global workforce reduction, as part of our plan to enhance operational performance through productivity initiatives in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The $17.8 million impairment to our MPTC bonds and APTC securities was due to a decrease in trade prices of comparable bonds and we believed that it was more likely than not that we would not recover the losses before these bonds and securities are sold. See Note 15, "Proton Solutions Loans and Investment," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our CPTC Term Loan, MPTC bonds and APTC securities. Impairment charges in fiscal year 2019 were primarily due to a $50.5 million goodwill impairment charge to the Proton Solutions reporting unit. 

Acquisition-related expenses and in-process R&D in fiscal year 2020 were primarily due to transactions costs related to our acquisitions and advisory fees related to the proposed acquisition by Siemens Healthineers. Acquisition-related expenses and in-process R&D in fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to a $20.8 million charge associated with a write-off of in-process R&D related to an acquisition that closed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, an $18.6 million charge due to the increase in the fair value of contingent consideration related to the Endocare and Alicon acquisition, and transaction costs related to the acquisitions of CTSI, and Endocare and Alicon. 

Other Income, Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m = not meaningful

Interest income decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to a decrease in interest income from loans to our Proton Solutions customers, our available-for-sale securities, and income generated from our cash balances due to a decrease in interest rates. Interest expense increased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to an increase in 

67

borrowings from our Credit Facility in fiscal year 2020. Other income, net, in fiscal year 2020, primarily includes $41.9 million in net gains that was mostly due to increases in the fair value of our equity investments, partially offset by $5.5 million in foreign exchange losses. Other income, net, in fiscal year 2019 primarily includes a $22.0 million gain on the sale of an equity investment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily because the prior period included a goodwill impairment charge and an in-process research and development expense, neither of which generated a tax benefit for the Company. This decrease was partially offset by an unfavorable shift in the geographic mix of earnings in fiscal year 2020. 

Our effective tax rate is impacted by the percentage of our total earnings that comes from our international region, the mix of particular tax jurisdictions within our international region, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, and changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. We expect that our effective tax rate may experience increased fluctuations from period to period. See Note 11, "Taxes on Earnings," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Net Earnings Per Diluted Share

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net earnings per diluted share decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to higher operating expenses, partially offset by gains on equity investments and a decrease in the effective tax rate in fiscal year 2020.

Gross Orders

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross orders are defined as new orders recorded during the period and revisions to previously recorded orders. New orders are recorded for the total contractual amount, excluding certain pass-through items and service items, which are recognized as revenue is recognized, once a written agreement for the delivery of goods or provision of services is in place and, other than Proton Solutions, when shipment of the product is expected to occur within two years, so long as any contingencies are deemed perfunctory. For our Proton Solutions business, we record orders when construction of the related proton therapy treatment center is reasonably expected to start within two years, but only if any contingencies are deemed perfunctory. We will not record Proton Solutions orders if there are financing contingencies, if a substantial portion of the financing for the project is not reasonably assured or if customer board approval contingencies are pending. We perform a quarterly review to verify that outstanding orders remain valid. If an order is no longer expected to ultimately convert to revenue, we record a backlog adjustment, which reduces backlog but does not impact gross orders for the period.

Gross orders in any period may not be directly correlated to the level of revenues in any particular future quarter or period since the timing of revenue recognition will vary significantly based on the delivery requirements of individual orders, acceptance schedules and the readiness of individual customer sites for installation of our products, all of which was impacted by COVID-19. Moreover, certain types of orders, such as orders for software or newly introduced products in our Oncology 

68

Systems segment, typically take more time from order to completion of installation and acceptance than hardware or older products. Because an order for a proton therapy system can be relatively large, an order in one fiscal period will cause gross orders in our Proton Solutions business to vary significantly, making comparisons between fiscal periods more difficult. 

Oncology Systems Gross Orders

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Oncology Systems gross orders were negatively impacted across our Americas and EMEA regions in fiscal year 2020 which was mostly driven by a decline in hardware and product orders due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the second half of fiscal year 2020. 

The Americas Oncology Systems gross orders decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to a decrease in hardware product orders, partially offset by an increase in service orders. EMEA Oncology Systems gross orders decreased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to a decrease in hardware product orders and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in software product orders, partially offset by an increase in service orders from CTSI. APAC Oncology Systems gross orders increased in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to an increase in service orders, and to lesser extent, increases in hardware and software product orders. 

The trailing 12 months' growth in gross orders for Oncology Systems at the end of October 2, 2020, and at the end of the three previous fiscal quarters were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Consistent with the historical pattern, we expect that Oncology Systems gross orders will continue to experience regional fluctuations. We expect that that customer financial constraints, foreign currency headwinds, and uncertainty around the COVID-19 pandemic may lead our customers to defer capital equipment purchases for a significant portion of fiscal year 2021, which will have an adverse effect on Oncology Systems gross orders in fiscal year 2021. Over the long-term, we expect international gross orders, specifically from emerging markets, will grow as a percentage of overall orders. Oncology Systems gross orders are affected by foreign currency fluctuations, which could impact the demand for our products. In addition, government programs that stimulate the purchase of healthcare products could affect the demand for our products from period to period, and could therefore make it difficult to compare our financial results.

69

Proton Solutions Orders

Proton Solutions orders decreased $19.4 million in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, mostly due to a smaller order size of proton therapy systems in fiscal year 2020 compared to the prior year period. The decrease in gross orders for proton therapy systems was partially offset by an increase in service orders. 

Other Category Gross Orders

The Other category gross orders increased $29.9 million in fiscal year 2020 over fiscal year 2019, primarily due to fiscal year 2020 consisting of a full year of gross orders compared to four months of gross orders in fiscal year 2019. Gross orders from the Other category are related to our Interventional Solutions business. 

Backlog

Backlog is the accumulation of all gross orders for which revenues have not been recognized but are still considered valid. Backlog is stated at historical foreign currency exchange rates and revenue is recognized from backlog at current exchange rates, with any difference recorded as a backlog adjustment. At October 2, 2020, total company backlog was $3.4 billion, which was flat compared to the backlog at September 27, 2019. At October 2, 2020, our Oncology Systems backlog was flat compared to the backlog at September 27, 2019, which reflected an increase of 6% from our international regions, offset by a decrease of 6% from our North America regions. Proton Solutions backlog was approximately $233 million.

We perform a quarterly review to verify that outstanding orders in the backlog remain valid. Aged orders that are not expected to ultimately convert to revenues are deemed dormant and are reflected as a reduction in the backlog amounts in the period identified. Backlog adjustments are comprised of dormancies, cancellations, foreign currency exchange rate adjustments, backlog acquired from our acquisitions, and other adjustments. Gross orders do not include backlog adjustments. Backlog adjustments total net reductions of $262.3 million and $136.6 million in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity is the measurement of our ability to meet potential cash requirements, including ongoing commitments to repay borrowings, acquire businesses or make other investments or loans, repurchase shares of VMS common stock, and fund continuing operations and capital expenditures. Our sources of cash generally include operations, borrowings, stock option exercises and employee stock purchases. 

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash

The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to $484.1 million in cash provided by operating activities, $76.0 million in cash provided by stock option exercises and employee stock purchases and $9.2 million in proceeds from the sale of an equity investment, partially offset by $86.2 million used for the repurchase of shares of VMS common stock, $84.3 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment, $55.0 million in debt repayments, net of borrowings, under our credit facility agreements, $36.2 million used for acquisitions, $26.3 million used for the purchase of equity investments, and $12.8 million used for tax withholdings on vesting of equity awards.

At October 2, 2020, we had approximately $277 million, or 36%, of cash and cash equivalents in the United States, which includes approximately $148 million in money market funds, and approximately $489 million, or 64%, of cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. In light of the changes to the U.S. federal taxation of foreign earnings in the Act, we no longer consider the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested. As a result, we have accrued for the foreign and state income taxes that we expect would be imposed upon a future remittance. 

As of October 2, 2020, most of our cash and cash equivalents that were held abroad were in U.S. Dollars and were primarily held as bank deposits. In addition to cash flows generated from operations, a significant portion of which are generated in the 

70

United States, we have used our credit facilities to meet our cash needs from time to time and expect to continue to do so in the future. Borrowings under our credit facilities may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, VMS share repurchases, acquisitions and other corporate purposes.

Cash Flows

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our primary cash inflows and outflows for fiscal years 2020 and 2019 were as follows:

We generated net cash from operating activities of $484.1 million in fiscal year 2020, compared to $371.8 million in fiscal year 2019. The $112.3 million increase in net cash from operating activities during fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019 was driven by an increase of $164.3 million in the net change from operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by an decrease of $22.8 million in net earnings and an decrease of $29.2 million in non-cash items.

The increase in net cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities in fiscal year 2020 was primarily due to:

•Trade and unbilled receivables decreasing by $35.2 million primarily due to Oncology Systems, which had lower revenues in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019, partially offset by lower collection of receivables in fiscal year 2020; 

•Inventory decreasing by $39.8 million from a decrease in raw materials due to changes in the manufacturing plans in Oncology Systems, partially offset by an increase in service parts in Proton Solutions; 

•Deferred revenues increasing by $11.2 million primarily due to an increase in billings ahead of revenue recognition;

Partially offset by,

•Accounts payable decreasing by $66.9 million primarily due to the timing of payments; and

•Accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities decreasing by $12.5 million, primarily due to decreases in accrued compensation, contingent consideration and warranty accruals, partially offset by an increase in restructuring accruals, and the adoption of ASC 842.

We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, timing of product shipments, product installation or customer acceptance, collection of accounts receivable, inventory management, contracts with extended payment terms, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” 

•Cash flows used in investing activities was $140.3 million in fiscal year 2020 compared to $631.7 million in fiscal year 2019. During fiscal year 2020, net cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $84.3 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment, $36.2 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions, and $26.3 million for the purchase of equity investments, partially offset by $9.2 million in proceeds from the sale of an equity investment. During fiscal year 2019, cash used in investing activities primarily included $576.2 million used for acquisitions, $58.0 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment, and $32.8 million for purchases of equity investments, partially offset by $29.9 million received from the sale of an equity investment, and $8.5 million received from the sale of an available-for-sale security.

•Cash flows used by financing activities was $93.1 million in fiscal year 2020 compared to cash flows provided by financing activities of $279.2 million in fiscal year 2019. During fiscal year 2020, net cash used by financing activities 

71

primarily consisted of $86.2 million in cash used for the repurchase of VMS common stock, partially offset by $55.0 million in debt repayments, net of borrowings and $76.0 million in cash proceeds received from stock option exercises and employee stock purchases. During fiscal year 2019, cash provided by financing activities primarily included $410.0 million in net borrowings from our credit facility and $63.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock to employees, partially offset by $166.7 million for the repurchase of VMS common stock, a $16.8 million debt repayment related to an acquisition, and $14.5 million for tax withholdings on vesting of equity awards.

We expect our capital expenditures, which typically represent construction and/or purchases of facilities, manufacturing equipment, office equipment and furniture and fixtures, as well as capitalized costs related to the implementation of software applications, will be approximately 3% of revenues in fiscal year 2021.

The following table summarizes our short-term borrowings:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 7, "Borrowings," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about our Credit Agreement and other borrowing arrangements.

The following table provides additional information regarding our short-term borrowings:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which result from the normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from uncertainties and conditions in the United States and global economies. Although our cash requirements will fluctuate, we believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, cash to be generated from operations, and current credit facilities will be sufficient to satisfy anticipated commitments for capital expenditures, and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.

Total debt as a percentage of total capital was 14.6% at October 2, 2020, compared to 18.8% at September 27, 2019. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities increased to 1.40 to 1 at October 2, 2020, from 1.27 to 1 at September 27, 2019.

Days Sales Outstanding

Our Oncology Systems trade and unbilled receivables days sales outstanding (“DSO”) increased to 110 days at October 2, 2020, from 109 at September 27, 2019. Our accounts receivable and DSO are impacted by a number of factors, primarily including: the timing of product shipments, product installation or customer acceptance, collections performance, payment terms, the mix of revenues from different regions, and the effects of economic instability. Proton Solutions' DSO is not meaningful because it is highly variable. Trade and unbilled receivables from our Other category are not material. As of October 2, 2020, approximately 6% of our net trade and unbilled receivables balance was related to customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year.

72

Share Repurchase Program

We repurchased shares of VMS common stock under various authorizations during the periods presented as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In November 2016, the VMS Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 8.0 million shares of VMS common stock commencing on January 1, 2017. As of October 2, 2020, approximately 1.6 million shares of VMS common stock remained available for repurchase under the November 2016 authorization. At the beginning of our third quarter of fiscal year 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as a precautionary measure we paused our share repurchase program. 

For more details see Note 12, "Stockholders' Equity and Noncontrolling Interests," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Contractual Obligations

The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of October 2, 2020 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Operating leases and finance leases include future minimum lease payments under all our non-cancellable operating leases as of October 2, 2020.

(2)Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, are legally binding and non-cancellable. Purchase obligations do not include agreements that are cancellable without penalty.

(3)Includes the fair value of our current and non-current portions of contingent consideration. While it is not certain if and/or when payments will be made, the maturity dates included in this table reflect our best estimate. See Note 2, "Business Combinations," for more information.

(4)As further described in Note 10, "Retirement Plans," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our post-retirement benefit plan is not presented in the table above as it is not material. As of October 2, 2020, the remaining defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by $14.0 million. Due to the impact of future plan asset performance, changes in interest rates and other economic and demographic assumptions, and the potential for changes in legislation in other foreign jurisdictions, we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing and amount of contributions necessary to fund our defined benefit pension plans beyond the next fiscal year. 

(5)The following items are not included in the table above:

•Long-term income taxes payable, which include the liability for uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties, and other long-term tax liabilities. As of October 2, 2020, our total liability for uncertain tax positions was $48.5 million, of which we do not anticipate a payment in the next 12 months. We are unable to reliably estimate the timing of the remainder of future payments related to uncertain tax positions; we believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, cash to be generated from operations, and current or future credit facilities will be sufficient to satisfy any payment obligations that may arise related to our liability for uncertain tax positions. The Act allows taxpayers to elect to pay the one-time transition tax over a period of 8 years as follows: 8% per year for each of the first five years and 15%, 20%, and 25%, in years 6 through 8, respectively. As of October 2, 2020, the 

73

noncurrent portion of the one-time transition tax on unremitted foreign earnings was $122.3 million. See Note 11, "Taxes on Earnings," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

•As of October 2, 2020, we had accrued $4.0 million for environmental remediation liabilities. The amount accrued represents estimates of anticipated future costs and the timing and amount of actual future environmental remediation costs may vary as the scope of our obligations becomes more clearly defined. See Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements or more information.

Contingencies

Environmental Remediation Liabilities

For a discussion of environmental remediation liabilities, see Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies," — Environmental Remediation Liabilities of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.

Proposed Acquisition by Siemens Healthineers

In connection with the proposed acquisition by Siemens Healthineers in August 2020, we expect to incur approximately $110 million in advisory fees that are contingent upon closing the pending acquisition by Siemens Healthineers. The Merger is expected to close in the first half of calendar year 2021, subject to receipt of specified regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. On October 15, 2020, VMS' stockholders approved and adopted the Merger Agreement. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, if the Merger Agreement is terminated by VMS or Siemens Healthineers under certain specified circumstances, a termination fee of $450.0 million in cash may be payable by VMS to Siemens Healthineers. The Merger Agreement also provides that a reverse termination fee of $450.0 million or $925.0 million in cash may be payable by Siemens Healthineers to VMS if the Merger Agreement is terminated by VMS or Siemens Healthineers under certain specified circumstances.

Other Matters

On October 16, 2018, Best Medical International, Inc. sued the Company in U.S. District Court in the District of Delaware, alleging infringement of four patents related to treatment planning. We intend to defend the suit vigorously. The suit is in the discovery stage, the parties have completed mediation, and a trial date is currently schedule for April 2022. At October 2, 2020, we have accrued $8.5 million representing our best estimate of the loss that may result from this action. The ultimate outcome of this matter is uncertain and may result in a materially different outcome.

From time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters both inside and outside the United States, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. See Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In conjunction with the sale of our products in the ordinary course of business, we provide standard indemnification of business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred for property damages, death and injury and for patent, copyright or any other intellectual property infringement claims by any third parties with respect to our products. The terms of these indemnification arrangements are generally perpetual. Except for losses related to property damages, the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these arrangements is unlimited. As of October 2, 2020, we have not incurred any significant costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification arrangements. As a result, we believe the estimated fair value of these arrangements is minimal.

We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers and certain of our employees that serve as officers or directors of our foreign subsidiaries that may require us to indemnify our directors and officers and those certain employees against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers, and to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any legal proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified.

From time to time, Varian is required to provide letters of credit, surety bonds and bank guarantees to support certain obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business and in some cases, in place of pledging cash collateral. The outstanding instruments were approximately $184 million as of October 2, 2020.

74

Recent Accounting Standards or Updates Not Yet Effective 

See Note 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and the estimated effects on our consolidated financial statements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks