Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks

We are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk and counterparty risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.

Credit Risk and Counterparty Risk

We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. These counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts.

In fiscal year 2020, the MPTC Series B-1 and B-2 bonds (collectively "MPTC" bonds) and the APTC securities were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired due to a decrease in trade prices of comparable bonds. We believe that it is more likely than not that we will not recover the losses before these bonds are sold. In fiscal year 2020, we recorded a $16.9 million impairment on our MPTC bonds and a $0.9 million impairment on our APTC securities. 

We are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by counterparties of our financing receivables and our loans to Proton Solutions customers. Primarily as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, during March and April 2020, CPTC suffered material negative impacts to its operating plan, including declines in current and projected patient volume and delays in partnership with a significant clinical partner. Therefore, we concluded it was no longer probable that we will collect the amounts owed under the Term Loan and Revolving Loan (collectively "CPTC Loans") when due and recorded a $40.5 million impairment charge in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. 

As of October 2, 2020, we had $11.8 million in carrying value of loans outstanding to CPTC, and $106.8 million in carrying value of notes receivable, including accrued interest to Proton Solutions customers, available-for-sale securities, and short-term senior secured debt. See Note 15, "Proton Solutions Loans and Investment," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

In addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. We also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under “Interest Rate Risk.” Our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. Conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the last economic downturn and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. Concerns over economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact our liquidity.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

As a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. Adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. Our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in Europe, Asia, Australia and Canada.

We have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer’s country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency sale transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries’ functional currency or in U.S. Dollars. The foreign currency transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts. We may use other derivative instruments in the future. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. We do not enter into foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. The forward contracts range from one to fifteen months in maturity.

75

We also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currency or the U.S. Dollar. However, our foreign exchange forward contract gains or losses may impact our effective tax rate. 

The notional values of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of October 2, 2020, in our Balance Sheet Hedge program were $459.7 million and $117.5 million, respectively. The notional values of our sold foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of October 2, 2020, in our Cash Flow Hedge program were $197.6 million. The notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. The fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. A move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. 

Interest Rate Risk

Our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and borrowings. Our investment portfolio primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities as of October 2, 2020. The principal amount of cash and cash equivalents in continuing operations at October 2, 2020 totaled $766.1 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.07%. 

Our available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value. At October 2, 2020, our available-for-sale securities, which include accrued interest are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our Revolving Credit Facility. At October 2, 2020, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled $355.0 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.18%. If the amount outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by $3.6 million. See Note 7, "Borrowings," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about our Credit Agreement and other borrowing arrangements.

To date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate within our investment portfolio, borrowings, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. In addition, although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk.

76

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data