PART I

ITEM 1.BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

We invest in scientific innovation to create transformative medicines for people with serious diseases with a focus on specialty markets. 

Cystic Fibrosis 

Our goal is to develop treatment regimens that will provide benefits to all patients with cystic fibrosis, or CF, and will enhance the benefits that currently are being provided to patients taking our medicines. Our marketed medicines are TRIKAFTA (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI (tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), ORKAMBI (lumacaftor/ivacaftor) and KALYDECO (ivacaftor). We obtained approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, for TRIKAFTA, our triple combination regimen, in October 2019. This approval increased the number of patients eligible for our medicines in the U.S. by approximately 6,000 and provided an additional treatment option for many patients who are also eligible for one of our previously approved products. We have submitted a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for this triple combination regimen. The FDA approval and the MAA filing were based on positive data from Phase 3 clinical trials evaluating the triple combination regimen in patients 12 years of age or older (i) who have a copy of the F508del mutation in their cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, or CFTR, gene and a second mutation that results in minimal CFTR function, whom we refer to as F508del/Min patients, and (ii) who have two copies of the F508del mutation, whom we refer to as F508del homozygous patients. Our four medicines are collectively approved to treat approximately 60% of the 75,000 CF patients in North America, Europe and Australia. We are focused on obtaining approval for the triple combination in ex-U.S. markets for patients 12 years of age and older and evaluating our triple combination in younger patients, with the goal of having treatments for up to 90% of patients with CF. We are also pursuing other therapeutic approaches to address the remaining 10% of CF patients. 

Research and Development 

Our goal is to identify and develop new medicines by combining transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and in the science of therapeutics to advance human health. 

Small Molecule Programs  

Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency.  In 2019, we initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate VX-814, our first investigational small molecule corrector for the treatment of alpha-1 antitrypsin, or AAT, deficiency. We expect to obtain data from this clinical trial in 2020. A Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate VX-864, our second investigational small molecule corrector for the treatment of AAT deficiency, is ongoing in healthy volunteers. 

APOL1-Mediated Kidney Diseases.  In 2019, we completed a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating VX-147 as a small molecule inhibitor of APOL1 function, a causal genetic factor in focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, or FSGS, and other proteinuric kidney diseases. In 2020, we expect to initiate a Phase 2 proof of concept clinical trial to evaluate VX-147. 

Pain.  We believe that NaV1.8 inhibitors have the potential to provide an effective non-opioid treatment for pain. We expect to begin clinical development of a NaV1.8 inhibitor in the first half of 2020.

Cell and Genetic Therapies

Sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia. We are co-developing CTX001, an investigational gene-editing treatment for beta-thalassemia and sickle cell disease, with CRISPR Therapeutics AG, or CRISPR. Enrollment is ongoing in our two Phase 1/2 clinical trials to evaluate CTX001. In November 2019, we announced positive interim data from the first two patients with these hemoglobinopathies treated with the investigational CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing therapy CTX001 in our ongoing trials.

Type 1 Diabetes. In 2019, we established a preclinical program to develop cell-based therapies for type 1 diabetes through our acquisition of Semma Therapeutics, Inc., or Semma. 

1

Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD, and myotonic dystrophy type 1, or DM1. In 2019, we established preclinical genetic therapy programs for DMD and DM1, through our acquisition of Exonics Therapeutics, Inc., or Exonics, and the expansion of our collaboration with CRISPR. 

We plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and fostering scientific innovation, including by continuing to identify additional drug candidates through our internal research efforts and investing in business development transactions to access emerging technologies, drugs and drug candidates. 

CYSTIC FIBROSIS

Background

CF is a life-shortening genetic disease affecting approximately 75,000 people in North America, Europe and Australia. CF is caused by a defective or missing CFTR protein resulting from mutations in the CFTR gene. To develop CF, children must inherit two defective CFTR genes, which are referred to as alleles; one allele is inherited from each parent. The vast majority of patients with CF carry at least one of the two of the most prevalent mutations, the F508del mutation or the G551D mutation. The F508del mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the CFTR protein does not reach the surface of the cells in sufficient quantities. The G551D mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the defective protein reaches the surface of a cell but does not efficiently transport chloride ions across the cell membrane.

The absence of working CFTR proteins results in poor flow of salt and water into and out of cells in a number of organs, including the lungs. As a result, thick, sticky mucus builds up and blocks the passages in many organs, leading to a variety of symptoms. In particular, mucus builds up and clogs the airways in the lungs, causing chronic lung infections and progressive lung damage. CFTR potentiators such as ivacaftor and VX-561 increase the probability that the CFTR protein channels open on the cell surface, increasing the flow of salt and water into and out of the cell. CFTR correctors, such as lumacaftor, tezacaftor, and elexacaftor, help CFTR proteins reach the cell surface. 

Our Medicines

Our medicines, TRIKAFTA, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, ORKAMBI and KALYDECO, are collectively approved to treat approximately 60% of the 75,000 CF patients in North America, Europe and Australia. Our approved medicines, including information regarding the indication and age groups for which the medicine is approved, are set forth in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2

In addition to the European Union and the United States, we market our products in additional countries, including Australia and Canada. We continuously seek to increase the number of patients eligible to receive our current medicines through label expansions and the approval of new medicines. Activities in support of these efforts include:

TRIKAFTA

•In October 2019, we received approval from the FDA for TRIKAFTA for the treatment of patients with CF 12 years of age and older who have at least one copy of the F508del mutation.

•In the fourth quarter of 2019, the MAA we submitted for the triple combination of elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor in patients 12 years of age and older was validated by the EMA.

•A Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating the triple combination of elexacaftor, tezacaftor and ivacaftor in children six to 11 years of age who are F508del homozygous or who have one copy of the F508del mutation and one minimum function mutation is ongoing. 

SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI 

•In June 2019, we obtained approval for SYMDEKO in the United States for children 6 to 11 years of age.

•In the fourth quarter of 2019, we submitted an application to the EMA to extend the indication of tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor to patients 6 to 11 years of age.

ORKAMBI

•In January 2019, we obtained approval for ORKAMBI in the European Union for children 2 to 5 years of age.

KALYDECO 

•In April 2019, we obtained approval for KALYDECO in the United States for infants 6 to <12 months of age.

•In December 2019, we obtained approval for KALYDECO in the European Union for infants 6 to <12 months of age.

Drug Candidates

•We are evaluating VX-121, an additional next-generation corrector, and VX-561, a potentiator, in Phase 2 clinical development.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

We invest in research and development in order to discover and develop transformative medicines for people with serious diseases. Our strategy is to combine transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and the science of therapeutics in order to identify and develop new medicines. Our approach to drug discovery historically focused on the research and development of small molecule drugs, which has been validated through our success in moving novel small molecule drug candidates into clinical trials and obtaining marketing approvals for TRIKAFTA, KALYDECO, ORKAMBI and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI for the treatment of CF and INCIVEK (telaprevir) for the treatment of hepatitis C infection. Over the last several years, we have expanded our research capabilities to include additional innovative therapeutic approaches with a focus on cell and genetic therapies, including:

•our collaboration with CRISPR in hemoglobinopathies and other diseases;

•our establishment of preclinical genetic therapy programs for DMD and DM1, through our acquisition of Exonics; and

•our establishment of a preclinical program to develop cell-based therapies for type 1 diabetes through our acquisition of Semma.

The experience we gained developing medicines for CF and our analysis of research and development programs conducted by other companies in our industry have shaped a disciplined strategy that guides our investments in research and development and external innovation that focuses on:

•transformative treatments for life-threatening diseases with a high unmet medical need;

3

•targets validated as playing a causal role in the human biology of a disease;

•innovative approaches to addressing those targets;

•biological assays and clinical biomarkers that we believe will be predictive of clinical responses; and

•efficient clinical and regulatory paths to bring new medicines to patients.

In addition to continuing our research to identify additional drug candidates for the treatment of CF, we are focusing our research and development efforts on developing products for the treatment of serious diseases including AAT deficiency, APOL1-mediated FSGS, pain, sickle cell disease, beta-thalassemia, DMD, DM1 and type 1 diabetes. 

To augment our internal programs, we seek to acquire businesses and technologies and to collaborate with biopharmaceutical and technology companies, leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations as needed to advance research in our areas of therapeutic interest as well as to access technologies needed to execute on our strategy. We have established such relationships with organizations around the world and intend to extend and leverage that experience to further our research efforts to discover transformational medicines for serious diseases. We will continue to identify and evaluate potential acquisitions and collaborations that may be similar to or different from the transactions that we have engaged in previously. 

Small Molecule Programs

Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency

AAT deficiency is caused by mutations in the SERPINA1 gene that produces AAT protein. To develop AAT deficiency, people must inherit two mutant SERPINA1 alleles (one from each parent). The mutations result in a defect in the AAT protein in which the protein does not fold correctly. This folding defect causes the AAT protein to accumulate in the liver (where it is produced), which can cause liver damage. As a result, the protein fails to reach other organs in adequate quantity and function, particularly in the lungs, where its normal role is to protect them from the digestive effects of certain proteases. The unchecked activity of these proteases can cause auto-digestion of lung tissue and may lead over time to emphysema or chronic pulmonary obstructive disease, and lung infections. Currently, there is no cure or treatment that targets the underlying cause of the disease in both the liver and the lung. Available treatments are aimed at transiently increasing levels of AAT in the blood, but have no effect in the liver. Patients living with AAT deficiency typically experience recurring hospital visits and a shortened life expectancy. 

We are seeking to develop medicines to treat AAT deficiency. In the laboratory, we have discovered multiple small molecule correctors that restore normal folding of the mutant AAT protein, with the potential to treat both the liver and lung diseases caused by AAT deficiency. In 2019, we began a Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating VX-814 as a potential treatment for AAT deficiency. In addition, in 2019, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating VX-864, our second investigational small molecule corrector for the treatment of AAT deficiency, in healthy volunteers. 

APOL1-Mediated Kidney Diseases 

Inherited mutations in the APOL1 gene play a causal role in the biology of FSGS as well as other kidney diseases. FSGS is a rare disease that attacks the kidney’s filtering units, causing leakage of protein into the urine followed later by deterioration in kidney function, scarring, and, ultimately, permanent kidney damage. FSGS is a leading cause of nephrotic syndrome in children and kidney failure in adults. We have discovered multiple novel small molecules that inhibit the function of APOL1 protein with the goal of treating APOL1-mediated FSGS. In 2019, we completed a Phase 1 clinical trial for VX-147, our first investigational oral small molecule medicine for the treatment of FSGS and other serious kidney diseases. We expect to begin a Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate VX-147 in 2020. 

Pain

Pain can develop from a variety of pathophysiological and psychological conditions. Patients with pain can suffer from acute pain (for example, following surgery or an injury), neuropathic pain (when there is damage to a nerve), and musculoskeletal pain. Current treatments may not work well or cause significant side effects. In addition, there is the potential for addiction and the practice of over- and mis-utilization, as well as underutilization of current pain medicines. 

Vertex has discovered multiple inhibitors of the sodium channel 1.8, or NaV1.8, as potential treatments for pain. Consistent with our research strategy, the Nav1.8 protein is a validated target for pain based both on inherited mutations that cause pain syndromes as well as through our own clinical trial data. Specifically, we have obtained positive results from three separate Phase 2 clinical trials evaluating VX-150, a NaV1.8 inhibitor, in patients with three different pain conditions: acute, 

4

neuropathic and musculoskeletal pain. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on discovering, developing and advancing inhibitors of NaV1.8 as a potential treatment for pain. In the first quarter of 2020, we announced the discontinuation of Phase 1 development of VX-961 and that we expect to begin clinical development of an additional molecule in the first half of 2020.

Out-licenses

Our research team has also discovered several additional first-in-class compounds that were out-licensed to collaborators consistent with our corporate strategy. Several of these compounds are continuing in clinical development. Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Janssen, is developing pimodivir, a compound we discovered and licensed to Janssen in 2014, as a potential treatment for the influenza A virus. Janssen is conducting Phase 3 clinical trials of pimodivir in combination with standard of care treatment in patients who are hospitalized or are outpatients at a higher risk of influenza-related complications. 

Cell and Genetic Therapies

Sickle Cell Disease and Beta-Thalassemia

Sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia are hemoglobinopathies, a group of inherited blood disorders that result from gene mutations that alter hemoglobin, a protein in red blood cells that delivers oxygen and removes carbon dioxide throughout the body. 

Sickle cell disease is caused by the change of a single amino acid in the hemoglobin gene that causes red cells to change shape in settings of low oxygen. These sickled cells block blood flow and can lead to severe pain, organ damage and shortened life span. Treatment is typically focused on relieving pain and minimizing organ damage, requiring medication and, for some patients, monthly blood transfusions and frequent hospital visits. 

Beta-thalassemia is caused by mutations in hemoglobin that lead to severe anemia in patients, which causes fatigue and shortness of breath. In infants, beta-thalassemia causes failure to thrive, jaundice and feeding problems. Complications of beta-thalassemia can lead to an enlarged spleen, liver and/or heart, misshapen bones and delayed puberty. Treatment for beta-thalassemia varies depending on the disease severity for each patient, with severely affected patients requiring regular blood transfusions, as frequently as every two to four weeks. Blood transfusions eventually cause an unhealthy buildup of iron in the patient, leading to organ damage. 

We are co-developing CTX001, an investigational gene-editing treatment, for the treatment of hemoglobinopathies, with CRISPR. We are seeking to develop a CRISPR/Cas9-based therapy to treat both beta-thalassemia and sickle cell disease. In November 2019, we announced positive, interim data from the first two patients with severe hemoglobinopathies treated with the investigational CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing therapy, CTX001, in ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical trials. One patient with severe sickle cell disease received CTX001 in mid-2019 and data for this patient reflect four months of safety and efficacy follow-up. One patient with transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia received CTX001 in the first quarter of 2019 and data for this patient reflect nine months of safety and efficacy follow-up. These trials are ongoing and additional patients have been enrolled. 

Type 1 Diabetes

Type 1 diabetes, or T1D, is a chronic, metabolic disorder caused by an absence of insulin secretion by the beta cells in the pancreas. In patients with T1D the person’s own immune system attacks the insulin-producing islet cells of the pancreas, resulting in a complete lack of insulin. While insulin therapy allows patients to live for decades with the disease, challenges of insulin therapy include inadequate control of blood sugar (both hyper- and hypo-glycemia), burden of care on patients and families, and long-term vascular complications. In 2019, we acquired a preclinical program to develop cell-based therapies for T1D through our acquisition of Semma. We plan to advance this program into clinical development in T1D patients in late 2020 or early 2021.

Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy

Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, or DMD, and myotonic dystrophy type 1, or DM1, are inherited diseases that result in the weakening and breakdown of skeletal muscles over time. In 2019, we acquired preclinical programs to develop genetic therapies for DMD and DM1 through our acquisition of Exonics and the expansion of our collaboration with CRISPR. 

5

COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR MEDICINES

Commercial Organization

Our commercial organization focuses on supporting sales of TRIKAFTA, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, ORKAMBI and KALYDECO in the markets where these products have been approved. Our sales and marketing organizations are responsible for promoting products to health care providers and obtaining reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, including governmental organizations in the United States and ex-U.S. markets. 

Our U.S. field-based CF commercial team is comprised of a small number of individuals to support commercialization of our medicines for CF. We focus our CF marketing efforts in the United States on a relatively small number of physicians and health care professionals who write most of the prescriptions for CF medicines. Many of these physicians and health care professionals are located at a limited number of accredited centers in the United States focused on the treatment of CF. In international markets, we have small sales forces that support KALYDECO, ORKAMBI and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI in jurisdictions where these products are approved. 

We market our products through personal interactions with physicians and allied health care professionals. In addition, our government affairs and public policy group advocates for policies that promote life sciences innovation and increase awareness of the diseases on which we are focusing, with state and federal legislatures, government agencies, public health officials and other policy-makers. We also have established programs in the United States that provide our products to qualified uninsured or underinsured patients at no charge or at a reduced charge, based on specific eligibility criteria.

Reimbursement

Sales of our products depend, to a large degree, on the extent to which our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed health care organizations. Increasingly, these third-party payors are becoming stricter in the ways they evaluate medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit our revenues. Decisions by third-party payors to not cover a product could reduce physician usage of the product.

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, established the Medicare Part D program to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities, which provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan likely will be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors.

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research was to be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes of Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures were to be made to the U.S. Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of our products. In the future, it is possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits of a competitor’s product could adversely affect the sales of our products. If third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our products as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis.

6

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, was enacted in March 2010 and was designed to expand coverage for the uninsured while at the same time containing overall health care costs. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA is designed to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs, impose an annual fee on branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare Part D program. 

In Europe and many other foreign jurisdictions, the success of our products depends largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement because patients are unable to access prescription pharmaceutical products that are not reimbursed by their governments. Negotiating reimbursement rates in foreign countries can delay the commercialization of a pharmaceutical product and generally results in a reimbursement rate that is lower than the net price that companies can obtain for the same product in the United States. 

In some countries, such as Germany, commercial sales of a new product may begin while the reimbursement rate that a company will receive is under discussion. In other countries, a company must complete the reimbursement discussions prior to the commencement of commercial supply of the pharmaceutical product. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the member states of the European Union can restrict the range of drugs for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and can control the prices of drugs for human use. In addition, many ex-U.S. government payers require companies to provide health economic assessments of products, which are evaluated by government agencies set up for this purpose. A member state may approve a specific price for the drug or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the total amount of money that a company may receive for supply of a drug. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of mandatory discounts imposed on pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will reimburse our products. Similarly, it could be the case that such countries may only provide for reimbursement on terms that we do not deem adequate. Additionally, reimbursement discussions in ex-U.S. markets may take a significant period of time.

STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS, COLLABORATIONS AND STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS

As part of our business strategy, we seek to license or acquire drugs, drug candidates, businesses and other technologies that have the potential to complement our ongoing research and development efforts. In addition, we establish business relationships with collaborators to support our research activities and to lead or support development and/or commercialization of certain drug candidates. We expect to continue to identify and evaluate potential acquisitions, licenses and collaborations that may be similar or different from the transactions that we have engaged in previously.

Strategic Transactions

Acquisitions

In July 2019, we acquired Exonics, a privately-held company focused on creating transformative gene-editing therapies to repair mutations that cause DMD and other severe neuromuscular diseases, including DM1. Our acquisition of Exonics enhanced our gene-editing capabilities and supports the potential development of novel therapies for DMD and DM1. In connection with the acquisition, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Exonics for an upfront payment of approximately $245.0 million plus customary working capital adjustments in cash, and certain potential future payments based primarily upon the successful achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones for the DMD and DM1 programs. 

In October 2019, we acquired Semma, a privately-held company focused on the use of stem cell-derived human islets as a potentially curative treatment for T1D. Our acquisition of Semma advanced our cell therapy capabilities and supports the potential development of transformative therapies for T1D. In connection with the acquisition, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Semma for approximately $950.0 million in cash.

Collaboration and Licensing Arrangements

In-License Agreements

We have entered into various agreements pursuant to which we have obtained access to technologies from third parties and are conducting research and development activities with collaborators. Pursuant to these arrangements, we have obtained development and commercialization rights to resulting drug candidates. Depending on the terms of the arrangements, we may be responsible for the costs of research activities, required to make upfront payments, milestone payments upon the achievement of certain research and development objectives and/or pay royalties on future sales, if any, of commercial 

7

products resulting from the collaboration. In our co-development and co-commercialization arrangement with CRISPR, we agreed to split costs and revenues associated with the relevant program. Our current in-license agreements include:

•Arbor Biotechnologies, Inc. In 2018, we entered into a collaboration with Arbor Biotechnologies, pursuant to which we are focusing on the discovery of novel proteins, including DNA endonucleases, to advance the development of new gene-editing therapies. 

•CRISPR Therapeutics AG. In 2015, we entered into a collaboration with CRISPR for the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using CRISPR-Cas9 gene-editing technology. We currently are co-developing CTX001 for the treatment of sickle cell disease and beta-thalassemia and, if successful, have agreed to co-commercialize CTX001. In addition, we have exercised options to exclusively license treatments for specific targets, including CF, that were subject to the research program. In 2019, we obtained exclusive worldwide rights to CRISPR’s intellectual property for DMD and DM1 gene-editing products through a new agreement with CRISPR. 

•Kymera Therapeutics, Inc. In 2019, we entered into a collaboration with Kymera Therapeutics for the research and development of small molecule protein degraders. Under the collaboration, Kymera conducts research activities in multiple targets, and upon designation of a clinical development candidate for a target, we have the option to exclusively license molecules against the target. 

•Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. In 2016, we entered into a collaboration with Moderna Therapeutics, pursuant to which we are seeking to identify and develop messenger ribonucleic acid, or mRNA, therapeutics for the treatment of CF. 

•Other Arrangements. In 2019, we entered into collaborations with Molecular Templates, Inc. and Ribometrix, Inc. In 2018, we entered into agreements with Genomics plc, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, and X-Chem, Inc. in order to support our research and development efforts. 

Out-license Agreements

We have entered into various agreements pursuant to which we have out-licensed rights to certain drug candidates to third-party collaborators. Pursuant to these out-license arrangements, our collaborators are responsible for all costs related to the continued development of such drug candidates and obtain development and commercialization rights to these drug candidates. Depending on the terms of the arrangements, our collaborators may be required to make upfront payments, milestone payments upon the achievement of certain research and development objectives and/or pay royalties on future sales, if any, of commercial products licensed under the agreement. Our current out-license agreements include:

•Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In 2014, we entered into an agreement with Janssen. Pursuant to this agreement, Janssen Inc. is developing pimodivir for the treatment of influenza. Janssen is evaluating pimodivir in Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with influenza A infection. 

•Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. In 2017, we entered into a Strategic Collaboration and License Agreement with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, pursuant to which we granted an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop and commercialize four oncology research and development programs. 

Strategic Investments

In connection with our business development activities, we periodically make equity investments in our collaborators. We hold strategic equity investments in public companies including CRISPR, Moderna Therapeutics and Molecular Templates, as well as certain private companies, including Arbor Biotechnologies, Kymera Therapeutics and Ribometrix. We may make additional strategic equity investments in public or private companies in the future. 

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Incorporated

In 2004, we entered into a collaboration agreement with the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, or CFF, as successor in interest to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics, Inc., to support research and development activities. Pursuant to the collaboration agreement, as amended, we have agreed to pay tiered royalties ranging from single digits to sub-teens on covered compounds first synthesized and/or tested during a research term on or before February 28, 2014, including KALYDECO (ivacaftor), ORKAMBI (lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor) and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI (tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor) and royalties ranging from low-single digits to mid-single digits on potential net sales of certain compounds first synthesized and/or tested between March 1, 2014 and August 31, 2016, including elexacaftor. For combination products, such as ORKAMBI, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI and TRIKAFTA (elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor), sales are allocated equally to each of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in the combination product. 

8

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Patents and other proprietary rights such as trademarks, trade secrets, and copyrights are critical to our business. We actively seek protection for our products and proprietary information by means of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and copyrights, as appropriate. In addition, we rely upon trade secret protection and contractual arrangements to protect certain of our proprietary information and products. 

Patents provide a period of exclusivity that can make it more difficult for competitors to market and use our technology. We own patents and pending patent applications that relate to compounds, formulations, treatment of diseases, synthetic routes, intermediates and other inventions.

To protect our intellectual property, we typically apply for patents several years before a product receives marketing approval. Under current law, a patent expires 20 years from its first effective filing date. Since the drug development process may last for many years, there may be a period of time in which we have an issued patent but not marketing approval to sell the drug. To compensate for patent term lost while a product is in clinical trials and undergoing review for marketing approval, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions or supplementary protection certificates in some countries. In addition to patent protection, we have market exclusivity from U.S. and European regulatory agencies for the active pharmaceutical agents and, where applicable, their approved orphan indications for a certain time period. Market exclusivity runs concurrently with patent exclusivity.

The table below sets forth the year of projected expiration for the basic product patents or pending patent applications covering each of our approved products. For products that are combinations of two or more active ingredients, the projected expiration of the latest expiring patent or application covering any of the active pharmaceutical ingredients is provided (lumacaftor for ORKAMBI, tezacaftor for SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI and elexacaftor for TRIKAFTA). Patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates, and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below and may extend protection. In some instances, we also own later-expiring patents relating to solid forms, formulations, methods of manufacture, or the use of these drugs in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. In some cases, however, such patents may not protect our drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Certain European countries have granted supplementary protection certificates for KALYDECO, which expire in 2027.

2 Certain European countries have granted supplementary protection certificates for ORKAMBI, which expire in 2030.

3 Certain European countries have granted supplementary protection certificates for SYMKEVI, which expire in 2033.

In addition to our later-stage programs and marketed products, we actively monitor and file patent applications in the United States and in foreign countries on technology that is in the pre-clinical and early clinical stages. For example, we also own U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications covering the following:

•CF potentiators and correctors and many other related compounds, and the use of those compounds to treat CF.

•Other pre-clinical and clinical drug candidates and the use of such drug candidates to treat specified diseases.

•The manufacture, pharmaceutical compositions, related solid forms, formulations, dosing regimens and methods of use of many of the above compounds.

We own or hold exclusive licenses to several hundred patents in the United States. We own nine issued U.S. patents that cover the active pharmaceutical ingredients in KALYDECO, its marketed formulations, and/or its approved indication. We own 17 issued U.S. patents that cover the active pharmaceutical ingredients in ORKAMBI, its marketed formulations, and/or its approved indication. We own 19 issued U.S. patents that cover the active pharmaceutical ingredients in SYMDEKO, its marketed formulation, and/or its approved indication. We own 18 issued U.S. patents that cover the active pharmaceutical ingredients in TRIKAFTA, its marketed formulation, and/or its approved indication, and the patent application covering elexacaftor is pending in the United States.

9

We cannot be certain, however, that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. 

From time to time we enter into exclusive and non-exclusive license agreements for proprietary third-party technology used in connection with our research activities. These license agreements typically provide for the payment by us of a license fee, but may also include terms providing for milestone payments or royalties for the development and/or commercialization of our drug products arising from the related research.

MANUFACTURING

As we market and sell our approved products and advance our drug candidates through clinical development toward commercialization, we continue to build and maintain our supply chain and quality assurance resources. We rely on internal capabilities and an international network of third parties to manufacture and distribute our products for commercial sale and post-approval clinical trials and to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials. In addition to establishing supply chains for each new approved product, we need to adapt our supply chain for existing products to include additional formulations that are often required in order to treat younger patients or to increase scale of production for existing products. We currently are focused on ensuring the stability of the supply chains for our current products, including TRIKAFTA. 

We expect that we will continue to rely on third parties to meet our commercial supply needs and a significant portion of our clinical supply needs for the foreseeable future. We have established our own small-scale manufacturing capabilities in Boston, which we use for clinical trial and commercial supplies. 

Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. In general, these raw materials are available from multiple sources. Third-party contract manufacturers, including some in China, perform different parts of our manufacturing process. Contract manufacturers may supply us with raw materials, convert these raw materials into drug substance and/or convert the drug substance into final dosage form. In addition, third parties are used for packaging, warehousing and distribution of products. 

Establishing and managing this global supply chain for each of our drugs and drug candidates requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. To ensure the stability of our supply chains, we aim to develop additional sources of manufacture for all steps of our manufacturing processes at the time of, or shortly after, marketing approval. Therefore, at any point in time, we may have a limited number of single source manufacturers for certain steps in our manufacturing processes, particularly for recently launched products. 

In order to manufacture our commercial products, we utilize both continuous manufacturing technology as well as batch manufacturing processes. While continuous process manufacturing has been used in many industries, we believe that we are the first company to obtain FDA approval for a fully-continuous drug product manufacturing process. 

We have developed systems and processes to track, monitor and oversee our third-party manufacturers’ activities, including a quality assurance program intended to ensure that our third-party manufacturers comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP. We regularly evaluate the performance of our third-party manufacturers with the objective of confirming their continuing capabilities to meet our needs efficiently and economically. Manufacturing facilities, both foreign and domestic, are subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and other U.S. and foreign government authorities.

Compared to the manufacturing processes required for small molecule drugs, the manufacturing processes for genetic and cell-based therapies are typically more complex and challenging, require different systems, equipment and facilities and require different expertise to develop and maintain. In 2019, we gained expertise in these areas through our acquisitions of Exonics and Semma, but in order to successfully develop and commercialize genetic and cell-based therapies, we will need to establish the manufacturing infrastructure, independently or through a third-party network, to manufacture these therapies.

COMPETITION

The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive research efforts, rapid technological progress and intense competition. There are many public and private companies, including pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, engaged in developing products for the indications our drugs are approved to treat and the therapeutic areas we are targeting with our research and development activities. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, 

10

government agencies, other public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and gene therapy industries may result in a larger concentration of resources among a smaller number of our competitors. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and human resources than we do. 

We believe that competition in our industry is based on, among other factors, innovative research, the effective and rapid development of drug candidates, the ability to market and obtain reimbursement for products and the ability to establish effective patent protection. We face competition based on the safety and efficacy of our product and drug candidates, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent protection and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products than we are able to develop or commercialize or obtain more effective patent protection. As a result, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our drug candidates, if approved, would achieve and maintain market acceptance and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our products. Future competitive products may render our products, or future products, obsolete or noncompetitive. Another key element of remaining competitive in our industry is recruiting and retaining leading scientific, technical and management personnel to conduct our research activities and advance our development programs, including with the commercial expertise to effectively market our products. 

Cystic Fibrosis

A number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of CF, including public companies such as AbbVie, Eloxx Pharmaceuticals, Proteostasis Therapeutics, and Translate Bio, and several private companies. Our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying and developing CFTR potentiators, CFTR correctors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action or that utilize new therapeutic approaches that seek to address the underlying cause of CF. Our competitors are exploring the development of drug candidates primarily as part of combination regimens of small molecules, and some competitors are exploring development of new therapeutic approaches, including nucleic acid-based therapies, which could provide additional treatment options for patients with CF. Our success in rapidly developing and commercializing our products may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for CF. If one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with CF, our revenues from our current products and/or additional CF products, if then approved, could face significant competitive pressure.

Pipeline

In recent years, we have committed significant research resources to and made significant investments in our pipeline of potential new therapies for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, APOL1-mediated kidney diseases, pain, beta-thalassemia, sickle cell disease, muscular dystrophy, T1D, and other diseases. We plan to continue investing in our pipeline, including expanding beyond small molecule therapies and into the discovery and development of gene therapies and cell therapies. Many other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are also investing resources for discovery and development of small molecules, gene therapies and cell therapies to treat the same diseases for which we are developing therapies. If any of these competitors develop or successfully commercialize products involving therapies competitive with our pipeline therapies, the potential return on our investment in those pipeline therapies could be impacted.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States, the European Union and other countries. In the United States, the European Union and other countries, drugs are subject to rigorous regulations governing the testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. As a result of these regulations, product development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming. The regulatory requirements applicable to drug development, approval, and marketing are subject to change. In addition, regulations and administrative guidance often are revised or reinterpreted by the agencies in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA or comparable ex-U.S. regulations, guidance or interpretations will change.

11

United States Government Regulation

New Drug Application Approval Processes

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:

•completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies conducted according to Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, and other applicable regulations;

•submission to the FDA of an IND application, which must become effective before clinical trials in the United States may begin;

•performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use;

•submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application, or an NDA;

•satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product will be produced to assess compliance with GMP; and

•FDA review and approval of the NDA.

Once a drug candidate is identified for development, it enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal pharmacology and toxicology studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, to the FDA as part of the IND, which seeks FDA approval to test the drug candidate in humans. Preclinical or nonclinical testing typically continues even after the IND is submitted. 

If the FDA accepts the IND, the drug candidate can then be studied in human clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate is safe and effective. These clinical trials involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are expensive. These three phases, which are subject to considerable regulation, are as follows:

•Phase 1. The drug initially is introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and elimination. In the case of some drug candidates for severe or life-threatening diseases, such as cancer, especially when the drug candidate may be inherently too toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients.

•Phase 2. Clinical trials are initiated in a limited patient population intended to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.

•Phase 3. Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk-benefit ratio of the drug candidate and provide an adequate basis for regulatory approval and product labeling.

Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time for a variety of reasons, including a finding that the healthy volunteers or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCP. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently in other situations, including the occurrence of serious adverse events. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific time-frames to the National Institutes of Health for public dissemination on the www.clinicaltrials.gov website.

The results of drug development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the drug candidate, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug candidate. The FDA reviews each NDA submitted to ensure that it is sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts it for filing. It may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. 

12

Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a drug candidate is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is GMP-compliant to assure and preserve the drug candidate’s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review and recommendation as to whether the NDA should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the drug candidate is manufactured and tested. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA may inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCP requirements.

The FDA may require, as a condition of approval, restricted distribution and use, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of promotional materials, restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising or commitments to conduct additional research post-approval. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA in its present form. 

Biologics License Application Process

Certain of our drug candidates may be regulated by the FDA under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and the Public Health Service Act as biologics. Biologics can present special safety, efficacy and manufacturing challenges that may differ from those present in the regulation of small molecule drugs. As such, while similar to the NDA review process described above, in lieu of filing an NDA, biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application, or BLA, and approval of such BLA by the FDA prior to being marketed in the U.S. 

Expedited Review and Approval

The FDA has developed four distinct approaches to make new drugs available as rapidly as possible in cases where there is no available treatment or there are advantages over existing treatments.

The FDA may grant “accelerated approval” to products that have been studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments. For accelerated approval, the product must have an effect on a surrogate endpoint or an intermediate clinical endpoint that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a drug, such as an effect on irreversible morbidity and mortality. When approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required to conduct additional post-approval clinical studies to verify and describe the clinical benefit. These studies are known as “confirmatory trials.” Approval of a drug may be withdrawn or the labeled indication of the drug changed if these trials fail to verify clinical benefit or do not demonstrate sufficient clinical benefit to justify the risks associated with the drug.

The FDA may grant “fast track” status to products that treat serious diseases or conditions and demonstrate the potential to address an unmet medical need. Fast track is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of such products by providing, among other things, more frequent meetings with the FDA to discuss the product’s development plan and rolling review, which allows submission of individually completed sections of an NDA or BLA for FDA review before the entire submission is completed. Fast track status does not ensure that a product will be developed more quickly or receive FDA approval.

“Breakthrough Therapy” designation is a process designed to expedite the development and review of drugs that are intended to treat a serious condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. For drugs and biologics that have been designated as Breakthrough Therapies, robust FDA-sponsor interaction and communication can help to identify the most efficient and expeditious path for clinical development while minimizing the number of patients placed in ineffective control regimens.

The FDA may grant “priority review” status to products that, if approved, would provide significant improvement in the safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of serious conditions. Priority review is intended to reduce the time it takes for the FDA to review an NDA or BLA, with the goal to take action on the application within six months from when the application is filed, compared to ten months for a standard review.

13

Manufacturing Quality Control

Among the conditions for NDA or BLA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures continually conform with GMP. In complying with GMP, manufacturers must devote substantial time, money and effort in the areas of production, quality control and quality assurance to maintain compliance. Material changes in manufacturing equipment, location or process, may result in additional regulatory review and approval. The FDA, and other regulatory agencies, conduct periodic visits to inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a product. If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance with the applicable regulations and requirements imposed when the product was approved, regulatory enforcement action may be taken, which may include a warning letter or an injunction against shipment of products from the facility and/or recall of products previously shipped. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of our products. Future FDA, state, and foreign inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt manufacture or distribution of our products, or require substantial resources to correct.

Post-approval Requirements

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or complete withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, under the FDCA the sponsor of an approved drug in the United States may not promote that drug for unapproved, or off-label, uses, although a physician may prescribe a drug for an off-label use in accordance with the practice of medicine. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs.

Products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things:

•record-keeping requirements;

•reporting of adverse experiences with the product;

•providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information;

•drug sampling and distribution requirements;

•notifying the FDA and gaining its approval of specified manufacturing or labeling changes;

•complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements; and

•complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements.

Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the drug development process, approval process or after approval, may subject us or our collaborators to administrative or judicial sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. These sanctions could include:

•refusal to approve or delay in review of pending applications;

•withdrawal of an approval or the implementation of limitations on a previously approved indication for use;

•imposition of a clinical hold, a risk mitigation and evaluation strategy or other safety-related limitations;

•warning letters or “untitled letters”;

•product seizures;

•total or partial suspension of production or distribution; or

•injunctions, fines, disgorgement, refusals of government contracts, or civil or criminal penalties.

14

Patent Term Restoration and Regulatory Exclusivity

Upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an IND for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years.

If the FDA approves a drug product that contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA’s reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days each existing exclusivity (patent and regulatory) related to the product. 

Biologics are also entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed as Title VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the ACA. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug exclusivity, as discussed below. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drug candidates intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. 

If a drug candidate that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for that drug for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years following marketing approval, except in certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product. Orphan drug exclusivity, however, also could block the approval of our drug candidates for seven years if a competitor first obtains approval of the same product as defined by the FDA or if our drug candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor’s product for the same indication or disease. KALYDECO, ORKAMBI, SYMDEKO, and TRIKAFTA have been granted orphan drug exclusivity by the FDA.

Foreign Regulation

We conduct clinical trials and market our products in numerous jurisdictions outside the United States. Most of these jurisdictions have clinical trial, product approval and post-approval regulatory processes that are similar in principle to those in the United States. Thus, whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a drug candidate, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries or economic areas, such as the European Union, before we can commence clinical trials or market products in those countries or areas. The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval.

Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology or those medicines intended to treat AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, or diabetes and optional for those medicines that are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. In addition to the centralized procedure, Europe also has a nationalized procedure, which requires a separate application to and approval determination by each country; a decentralized procedure, whereby applicants submit identical applications to several countries and receive simultaneous approval; and a mutual recognition procedure, where applicants submit an application to one country for review and other countries may accept or reject the initial decision.

Other Regulations

Pharmaceutical companies are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws generally make it illegal to knowingly and willfully solicit, offer, receive 

15

or pay any remuneration in return for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal health care program. False claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid), any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as by the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Liability under the false claims laws may also arise when a violation of certain laws or regulations related to the underlying products (e.g., violations regarding improper promotional activity or unlawful payments) contributes to the submission of a false claim. If we were subject to allegations concerning, or convicted of violating, these laws, our business could be harmed.

Laws and regulations have been enacted by the federal government and various states to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers. The laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers or require disclosure to the government and public of such interactions. The laws include U.S. federal and state “sunshine” provisions. The federal sunshine provisions apply to pharmaceutical manufacturers with products reimbursed under certain government programs and require those manufacturers to disclose annually to the federal government (for re-disclosure to the public) certain payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals and, beginning with disclosures in 2022, to certain non-physician practitioners. State laws may also require disclosure of pharmaceutical pricing information and marketing expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations contain requirements that are subject to interpretation. Outside the United States, other countries have implemented requirements for disclosure of financial interactions with healthcare providers and additional countries may consider or implement such laws.

We are subject to various federal and foreign laws that govern our international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. Those laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to otherwise obtain favorable treatment or influence a person working in an official capacity. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the FCPA’s definition of a foreign government official. We are also subject to U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or the Bribery Act, which proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from giving bribes. U.S. companies that conduct business in the United Kingdom generally will be subject to the Bribery Act.

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to data privacy and protection, safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import, export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances are or may be applicable to our activities. In addition, as we expand our pipeline and contemplate different approaches that may incorporate the use of medical devices, such approaches may necessitate compliance with regulatory laws specifically governing the testing, manufacture, and approval of medical devices. Furthermore, the extent of government regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 3,000 employees. Of these employees, approximately 2,400 were based in the United States and approximately 600 were based outside the United States. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, except for a small number of employees outside the United States.

A key aspect of remaining competitive in our industry is recruiting and retaining employees, including employees with the scientific and technical expertise to conduct our research activities and advance our development programs and commercial expertise to effectively marketing our products. We consider our relations with our employees to be good and over the last several years have successfully recruited talented and diverse employees to support our expanding business. However, we continue to face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry and from universities and research institutions. 

16

OTHER MATTERS

Financial Information and Significant Customers

The Company operates in one segment, pharmaceuticals. Financial information about our revenue by product and major customers is set forth in Note R, “Segment Information,” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Information Available on the Internet

Our internet address is www.vrtx.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available to you free of charge through the “Investors-SEC Filings” section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Corporate Information

Vertex was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1989, and our principal executive offices are located at 50 Northern Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02210.

17

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

The names, ages and positions held by our executive officers are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Dr. Leiden is our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. In July 2019, we announced that Dr. Leiden would be transitioning to the role of Executive Chair in April 2020. He has held the positions of Chief Executive Officer and President since February 2012 after joining us as CEO Designee in December 2011. He has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2009, the Chairman of our Board of Directors since May 2012, and served as our lead independent director from October 2010 through December 2011. Dr. Leiden was a Managing Director at Clarus Ventures, a life sciences venture capital firm, from 2006 through January 2012. Dr. Leiden was President and Chief Operating Officer of Abbott Laboratories, Pharmaceuticals Products Group, and a member of the Board of Directors of Abbott Laboratories from 2001 to 2006. From 1987 to 2000, Dr. Leiden held several academic appointments, including the Rawson Professor of Medicine and Pathology and Chief of Cardiology and Director of the Cardiovascular Research Institute at the University of Chicago, the Elkan R. Blout Professor of Biological Sciences at the Harvard School of Public Health, and Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School. He is an elected member of both the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences. Dr. Leiden serves as a director of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, an insurance company. Dr. Leiden was a director and the non-executive Vice Chairman of the board of Shire plc, a specialty biopharmaceutical company, from 2006 to January 2012 and a director of Quest Diagnostics, a medical diagnostics company, from December 2014 to May 2019. Dr. Leiden received his M.D., Ph.D. and B.A. degrees from the University of Chicago. 

Dr. Kewalramani is our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer and became a member of our Board of Directors on February 13, 2020. In July 2019, we announced she would be appointed our Chief Executive Officer and President in April 2020. Dr. Kewalramani was our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer since April 2018. She was our Senior Vice President, Late Development from February 2017 until April 2018. From August 2004 to January 2017, she served in roles of increasing responsibility at Amgen Inc., most recently as Vice President, Global Clinical Development, Nephrology & Metabolic Therapeutic Area and as Vice President, U.S. Medical Organization. From 2014 through 2019, Dr. Kewalramani was the industry representative to the FDA’s Endocrine and Metabolic Drug Advisory Committee. She completed her internship and residency in Internal Medicine at the Massachusetts General Hospital and her fellowship in Nephrology at the Massachusetts General Hospital and Brigham and Women’s Hospital combined program. Dr. Kewalramani holds a B.A. from Boston University and an M.D. from Boston University School of Medicine. Dr. Kewalramani also completed the General Management Program at Harvard Business School and is an alumnus of the school. 

Dr. Altshuler has been our Executive Vice President, Global Research and Chief Scientific Officer since January 2015 and was a member of our Board of Directors from May 2012 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler was one of four founding members of the Broad Institute, a research collaboration of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The Whitehead Institute and the Harvard Hospitals. He served as the Director of the Institute’s Program in Medical and Population Genetics from 2003 through December 2014 and as the Institute’s Deputy Director and Chief Academic Officer from 2009 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler joined the faculty at Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts General Hospital in 2000 and held the academic rank of Professor of Genetics and Medicine from 2008 through December 2014. He served as Adjunct Professor of Biology at MIT from 2012 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler earned a B.S. from MIT, a Ph.D. from Harvard University and an M.D. from Harvard Medical School. Dr. 

18

Altshuler completed his clinical training in Internal Medicine, and in Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, at the Massachusetts General Hospital.

Mr. Arbuckle is our Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, a position he has held since September 2012. Prior to joining us, Mr. Arbuckle held multiple commercial leadership roles at Amgen, Inc., a 17,000 person biotechnology company, from July 2004 through August 2012. Mr. Arbuckle has worked in the biopharmaceuticals industry since 1986, including more than 15 years at GlaxoSmithKline plc, where he held sales and marketing roles of increasing responsibility for medicines aimed at treating respiratory, metabolic, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular and other diseases. He served as a member of the Board of Directors of Cerulean Pharma, Inc. from June 2015 through July 2017 and has served as a member of the Board of Directors of ImmunoGen, Inc. since January 2018 and of Rhythm Pharmaceuticals Inc. since July 2019. Mr. Arbuckle holds a BSc in pharmacology and physiology from the University of Leeds.

Dr. Bozic has been our Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development and Medical Affairs since October 2019. She was our Senior Vice President and Head of Global Clinical Development from May 2019 to October 2019. Prior to joining Vertex, Dr. Bozic spent more than 20 years at Biogen Inc., most recently as Senior Vice President of Global Development and Portfolio Transformation from 2015 to May 2019 and as Senior Vice President of Clinical and Safety Sciences from 2013 to 2015. Dr. Bozic has served as the industry representative to the FDA’s Risk Communication Advisory Committee, and was a member of PhRMA’s Clinical and Preclinical Development Committee and the Board of Managers at BioMotiv. She is a member of the Clinical Advisory Board at Akili Interactive. She received her M.D., C.M., completed her residency, and was Chief Resident in Internal Medicine at McGill University. She completed her fellowship in Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, and was an Associate Physician at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School before joining the biopharmaceutical industry. 

Mr. Parini is our Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Administrative Officer, a position he has held since January 2017. From January 2016 to January 2017, he was our Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer. From 2004 until he joined Vertex, Mr. Parini served in various roles of increasing responsibility at Pfizer Inc., a pharmaceutical company, most recently as Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior to Pfizer, Mr. Parini was an attorney at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, L.L.P. Mr. Parini holds a B.A. from Georgetown University and a J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center.

Mr. Sachdev is our Executive Vice President and Chief Patient Officer, a role he has held since October 2019. He served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer from January 2017 until September 2019, and as our Executive Vice President, Policy, Access and Value, from October 2014 through December 2016. In 2010, he established our first international commercial operations in Canada. In 2007, he joined us as a Senior Vice President, and has led our government affairs and public policy activities, as well as our patient advocacy programs. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sachdev served as Executive Vice President, Health of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) and was the Deputy Commissioner for Policy at the FDA, where he also served in several other senior positions. Prior to the FDA, Mr. Sachdev served as Majority Counsel to the Committee on Energy and Commerce in the United States House of Representatives and practiced law at the Chemical Manufacturers Association, and subsequently at the law firm of Ropes & Gray LLP. He has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Eiger BioPharmaceuticals since May 2019. Mr. Sachdev holds a B.S from Carnegie Mellon University and a J.D. from Emory University School of Law.

Mr. Wagner has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2019. Prior to joining Vertex, Mr. Wagner was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Finance, of Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, a Carlyle Group portfolio company, from June 2015 to March 2019. In that role, he led the finance, accounting, tax, treasury, global information systems, lender relations, and acquisitions and divestiture groups, as well as shared leadership over several enterprise-wide projects. From July 2012 to June 2015, Mr. Wagner served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Bruker Corporation, a scientific instruments manufacturer. Prior to that, Mr. Wagner served as Chief Financial Officer for Progress Software Corporation, a provider of enterprise software, and Millipore Corporation, a global provider of products and services in the life science tools market. Mr. Wagner served as a director and chairman of the Audit Committee of Good Start Genetics, Inc. from April 2014 to August 2017 and served as a director and member of the Audit Committee of Bruker Corporation from August 2010 to June 2012. Mr. Wagner holds a B.S. in accounting from Boston College and a M.B.A from Harvard Business School.

Mr. Silva is our Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, a position he has held since April 2011. Mr. Silva also served as our interim Chief Financial Officer from January 2019 to April 2019. Mr. Silva joined us in August 2007 as Senior Director, Accounting Operations and was our Vice President and Corporate Controller from September 2008 through April 

19

2011. Prior to joining us, he was the Vice President, Internal Reporting at Iron Mountain Incorporated from July 2006 until August 2007 and a consultant to Iron Mountain’s finance department from April 2005 until July 2006. He was the Finance Director of the Bioscience Technologies Division of Thermo Electron Corporation from 2002 to April 2005. Mr. Silva holds a B.S. in accounting from Assumption College.

Dr. Tatsis has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Regulatory Officer since October 2019. She served as our Senior Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs from September 2017 to October 2019. Prior to joining Vertex, Dr. Tatsis held positions of increasing responsibility at several pharmaceutical companies, including Sanofi, Stemnion, Pfizer, and Wyeth. Most recently, from 2014 to 2017, she was Vice President, Head of Global Regulatory Affairs, at the Sanofi Genzyme Business Unit focused on Inflammation/Immunology, Rare Disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Ophthalmology, Neurology, and Oncology/Immuno-Oncology. Dr. Tatsis also worked as an associate staff scientist and research fellow in Immunology and Vaccine Development at the Wistar Institute and completed a post-doctoral research fellowship in Immunology at Thomas Jefferson University. She received her Ph.D. in Cell and Molecular Biology from the University of Vermont and holds a B.S. in Biology from Temple University.

20

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS