Exhibit 99  

 VF Reports 2016 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results; Provides Outlook for 2017  

 2016 revenue from continuing operations in line with 2015 at $12 billion (up 1 percent currency neutral);  

 2016 international revenue increased 4 percent (up 6 percent currency neutral);  

 2016 EPS from continuing operations down 9 percent to $2.78, adjusted EPS up 2 percent to $3.11 (up 7 percent currency neutral);  

 2016 cash flow from operations reached almost $1.5 billion and the company returned more than $1.6 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases;  

 2017 revenue expected to increase at a low single-digit percentage rate including a 2 percentage point negative impact from changes in foreign currency;  

 2017 gross margin expected to be 48.6 percent, which includes a 70 basis point negative impact from changes in foreign currency;  

 2017 EPS expected to be down at a low single-digit percentage rate compared to 2016 adjusted EPS of $3.11 (up at a mid-single-digit percentage rate on a currency neutral basis); and,  

 Expect to return more than $1.6 billion to shareholders in 2017 through share repurchases and dividends.   

 GREENSBORO, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 17, 2017--VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2016. All per share amounts are presented on a diluted basis. This release refers to “reported” and “currency neutral” amounts, terms that are described under the “Currency Neutral – Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency” heading. This release also refers to adjusted amounts that exclude 2016 charges related to goodwill and intangible asset impairment, restructuring, and pension settlement which are described under the “Adjusted Amounts – Excluding Goodwill and Intangible Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Pension Settlement Charges” heading. Adjusted amounts are presented based on continuing operations. Unless otherwise noted, “reported,” “adjusted,” and “currency neutral” amounts are the same. This release also refers to both “continuing” and “discontinued” operations amounts, which are concepts described under the “Discontinued Operations – Contemporary Brands” heading. Unless otherwise noted, results presented are based on continuing operations.  

 “VF’s global business model, diverse brand portfolio and focused operational discipline helped the company deliver solid results in 2016 despite an inconsistent U.S. marketplace,” said Eric Wiseman, Executive Chairman of the Board. “We’re pleased with the improved quality of our revenue, which reflects continued growth in our international and direct-to-consumer platforms, and our strong gross margin and cash generation performance that enabled us to return a record $1.6 billion to our shareholders. Looking forward, I expect the strategic and operational actions we are taking to generate even stronger long-term value for our shareholders.”  

 Currency Neutral – Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency  

 This release refers to “reported” amounts in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), which include translation and transactional impacts from foreign currency exchange rates. This release also refers to “currency neutral” amounts, which exclude both the impact of translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars and the impact of currency rate changes on foreign currency denominated transactions. Reconciliations of GAAP measures to currency neutral amounts are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this release, which identify and quantify all excluded items, and provide management’s view of why this information is useful to investors.  

 Adjusted Amounts – Excluding Goodwill and Intangible Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Pension Settlement Charges  

 This release refers to adjusted amounts that exclude 1) noncash goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges related to our lucy® brand of $80 million pre-tax ($0.15 per share after-tax for full year 2016), 2) restructuring charges related to cost alignment initiatives of $58 million pre-tax ($0.10 per share after-tax for full year 2016), and 3) a noncash pension settlement charge of $51 million pre-tax ($0.07 per share after-tax for full year 2016). The pension settlement charge was a result of actions taken to reduce risk, volatility, and the liability associated with VF’s U.S. pension plan. The above charges were incurred during the fourth quarter of 2016. Reconciliations of GAAP measures to adjusted amounts are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this release, which identify and quantify all excluded items, and provide management’s view of why this information is useful to investors.  

 Discontinued Operations – Contemporary Brands  

 On August 26, 2016, the company completed the sale of its Contemporary Brands businesses, which included the 7 For All Mankind®, Splendid® and Ella Moss® brands. Accordingly, the company removed the assets and liabilities of the Contemporary Brands businesses as of that date and included the results of those businesses in discontinued operations for all periods presented.  

 The company’s net loss from discontinued operations was $98 million in 2016, which includes the loss on the sale of the Contemporary Brands businesses and the operating results of the businesses, net of tax.  

 Fourth Quarter 2016 Income Statement Review   

 Revenue was in line with last year’s fourth quarter at $3.3 billion (up 1 percent currency neutral) driven by strength in our international and direct-to-consumer platforms, and our Vans® business.  

 Gross margin improved 90 basis points to a record 49.1 percent on a reported basis, as benefits from pricing, lower product costs and a mix-shift toward higher margin businesses were partially offset by changes in foreign currency and the impact of restructuring charges. On an adjusted basis, gross margin increased 160 basis points to 49.8 percent. Changes in foreign currency negatively affected both reported and adjusted gross margin by 90 basis points during the quarter.  

 Operating income on a reported basis was down 41 percent to $320 million compared to the same period of 2015. On an adjusted basis, operating income decreased 5 percent to $509 million. Operating margin on a reported basis decreased 660 basis points to 9.6 percent. Adjusted operating margin decreased 90 basis points to 15.3 percent. Changes in foreign currency negatively impacted both reported and adjusted operating margin by about 60 basis points in the quarter.  

 Earnings per share on a reported basis was down 33 percent to $0.63 compared to $0.94 during the same period last year. Adjusted earnings per share for the fourth quarter increased 3 percent to $0.97. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency, adjusted fourth quarter earnings per share was up 8 percent.   

 Fiscal Year 2016 Income Statement Review   

 Revenue was in line with last year at $12.0 billion (up 1 percent currency neutral) driven by continued momentum in our international and direct-to-consumer platforms, and our Vans® business.  

 Gross margin improved 20 basis points to 48.4 percent on a reported basis as benefits from pricing, lower product costs, and a mix-shift toward higher margin businesses were partially offset by changes in foreign currency and the impact of restructuring charges. On an adjusted basis, gross margin increased 40 basis points to 48.6 percent. Changes in foreign currency negatively affected both reported and adjusted gross margin by almost 80 basis points in 2016.  

 Operating income on a reported basis was down 16 percent to $1.5 billion compared to the same period in 2015. Adjusted operating income was down 6 percent to $1.7 billion. Operating margin on a reported basis decreased 240 basis points to 12.5 percent. Adjusted operating margin decreased 90 basis points to 14.0 percent. Changes in foreign currency negatively impacted both reported and adjusted operating margin by 50 basis points in 2016.  

 Earnings per share on a reported basis was down 9 percent to $2.78 compared to $3.04 in 2015. Adjusted earnings per share for 2016 increased 2 percent to $3.11. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency, adjusted 2016 earnings per share was up 7 percent.   

 Coalition Review  

 Fourth quarter revenue for Outdoor & Action Sports was up 2 percent to $2.1 billion. Full year Outdoor & Action Sports revenue also increased 2 percent in 2016 to $7.5 billion.   

 Vans® brand revenue for the fourth quarter was up 14 percent (up 15 percent currency neutral) driven by a mid-teen increase in the Americas business (up high-teens currency neutral); and in Europe a return to growth with a mid-single-digit rate increase (up low single-digits currency neutral); and more than 20 percent (up more than 25 percent currency neutral) growth in Asia Pacific. Revenue for the Vans® brand for the full year was up 6 percent (up 7 percent currency neutral) and reached $2.3 billion.  

 Fourth quarter revenue for The North Face® brand was down 8 percent (down 7 percent currency neutral) driven by the strategic decision to reduce sales to the off-price channel and the impact of bankruptcies in North America. Excluding these factors, The North Face® brand would have increased at a low single-digit rate. On a regional basis, the Americas declined at a low double-digit rate; Europe increased at a mid-teen rate (up high-teens currency neutral); and, Asia Pacific declined at a low double-digit percentage rate (down mid-single-digit currency neutral). For the full year, revenue for The North Face® brand declined 2 percent (down 1 percent currency neutral) to $2.3 billion.  

 Timberland® brand revenue was up 4 percent in the fourth quarter (up 5 percent currency neutral) including a low single-digit rate increase in the Americas region; a high single-digit rate increase in Europe (up low double-digits currency neutral); and, a mid-single-digit rate increase in Asia Pacific. Full year Timberland® brand revenue was up 1 percent to $1.8 billion.   

 Fourth quarter operating income on a reported basis for Outdoor & Action Sports was consistent with 2015 at $385 million. On an adjusted basis, operating income increased 4 percent to $402 million. Changes in foreign currency negatively impacted both reported and adjusted operating profit growth by approximately 8 percentage points. Operating margin on a reported basis was 18.0 percent, down 40 basis points compared to the same period last year. Adjusted operating margin increased 50 basis points to 18.9 percent. Full year reported operating income decreased 3 percent to approximately $1.2 billion. Full year adjusted operating income decreased 2 percent. Changes in foreign currency negatively affected full year profit growth on both a reported and an adjusted basis by approximately 7 percentage points. Full year reported operating margin was 16.3 percent, compared to 17.1 percent in 2015. Full year adjusted operating margin was 16.5 percent in 2016.  

 Jeanswear fourth quarter revenue declined 5 percent (down 4 percent currency neutral) to $697 million. For the full year, global Jeanswear revenue was down 2 percent to $2.7 billion (flat currency neutral).   

 Wrangler® brand revenue was down 1 percent (up 1 percent currency neutral) in the fourth quarter with revenue in line with last year in the Americas business (up low single-digit currency neutral); a high single-digit rate decrease in Europe (down mid-single digits currency neutral); and, a 20 percent decline in the Asia Pacific region (down high-teens currency neutral). Full year revenue for the Wrangler® brand was down 1 percent (up 1 percent currency neutral) to $1.7 billion.  

 Fourth quarter revenue for the Lee® brand was down 13 percent (down 11 percent currency neutral) including a high-teens rate decline in the Americas region; a high single-digit rate increase in Europe (up low double-digits currency neutral); and, a mid-single digit rate decline in the Asia Pacific region (down low single-digit currency neutral). For the full year, revenue for the Lee® brand was down 3 percent (down 1 percent currency neutral) to $1.0 billion.   

 Fourth quarter operating income on a reported basis for Jeanswear decreased 27 percent to $103 million. On an adjusted basis operating income decreased 12 percent to $124 million. Changes in foreign currency offset the decline in both reported and adjusted operating profit by 2 percentage points. Operating margin on a reported basis was 14.8 percent, down 430 basis points compared to the same period last year. Adjusted operating margin decreased 130 basis points to 17.8 percent. Full year reported operating income decreased 8 percent to $492 million. Operating income on an adjusted basis decreased 4 percent to $512 million. Full year reported operating margin was 18.0 percent, compared to 19.2 percent in 2015. Full year adjusted operating margin was 18.7 percent in 2016.  

 Imagewear fourth quarter revenue increased 15 percent to $298 million with a more than 20 percent increase in the Licensed Sports Group (LSG) business and a mid-single-digit increase in the workwear business. For the full year, revenue for Imagewear was up 2 percent to $1.1 billion.  

 Fourth quarter operating income on a reported basis for Imagewear was up 40 percent to $55 million and reported operating margin increased 330 basis points to 18.5 percent. Adjusted operating income in the fourth quarter increased more than 40 percent to $57 million and adjusted operating margin increased 380 basis points to 19.0 percent. Changes in foreign currency positively affected both reported and adjusted operating profit growth by approximately 5 percentage points. For the full year, Imagewear operating income on a reported basis increased 14 percent to $180 million, and operating margin was 16.3 percent, a 170 basis point increase over 2015. Operating income on an adjusted basis increased 15 percent and adjusted operating margin increased 180 basis points to 16.4 percent. Changes in foreign currency positively affected both reported and adjusted operating profit growth by approximately 4 percentage points.  

 Sportswear fourth quarter revenue declined 17 percent to $162 million including a 20 percent decrease in Nautica® brand revenue and a 2 percent decline in the Kipling® brand’s North American business compared to the same period last year. For the full year, Sportswear coalition revenue was down 16 percent to $536 million.  

 Fourth quarter operating income for Sportswear decreased 63 percent to $10 million with operating margin at 6.5 percent, compared to 14.5 percent in the same period last year. Adjusted operating income in the fourth quarter decreased 53 percent, with adjusted operating margin of 8.3 percent. Full year 2016 reported operating income decreased 54 percent with operating margin of 6.8 percent, compared to 12.4 percent in 2015. Full year adjusted operating income decreased 50 percent with operating margin of 7.4 percent.  

 International Review  

 International revenue in the fourth quarter was up 5 percent (up 7 percent currency neutral). Revenue was up 6 percent (up 7 percent currency neutral) in Europe and up 6 percent (up 8 percent currency neutral) in the Asia Pacific region, including a 6 percent increase (up 14 percent currency neutral) in China. Revenue in the Americas (non-U.S.) region was down 1 percent (up 6 percent currency neutral). The international business represented 34 percent of total VF fourth quarter sales, compared to 33 percent in last year’s same period. For the full year, international revenue was up 4 percent (up 6 percent currency neutral). Revenue was up 5 percent (up 4 percent currency neutral) in Europe and up 3 percent (up 6 percent currency neutral) in the Asia Pacific region, including a 4 percent increase (up 10 percent currency neutral) in China. Revenue in the Americas (non-U.S.) region was up 2 percent (up 11 percent currency neutral). The international business represented 38 percent of total VF sales in 2016, compared to 37 percent in 2015.  

 Direct-to-Consumer Review  

 Direct-to-consumer revenue was up 11 percent (up 12 percent currency neutral) in the fourth quarter driven by a mid-teen increase in the Outdoor & Action Sports business and a mid-teen increase in the international business. The company’s e-commerce business continued its strong momentum with 21 percent revenue growth during the quarter. There were 1,507 VF-owned retail stores at the end of the quarter compared with 1,405 at the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. Direct-to-consumer revenue reached 37 percent of total fourth quarter revenue compared with 33 percent in last year’s same period. For the year, direct-to-consumer revenue was up 8 percent (up 9 percent currency neutral) driven by a low-teen increase in the Outdoor & Action Sports business and a low double-digit (mid-teen currency neutral) increase in the international business. Direct-to-consumer revenue was 28 percent of total VF revenue in 2016 compared to 26 percent in 2015.  

 Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Highlights  

 Inventories were up less than 1 percent compared to 2015 levels. In 2016, VF’s cash flow from operations reached almost $1.5 billion. The company also returned more than $1.6 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.  

 2017 Outlook  

 “The pace of change in both our industry and the broader consumer landscape is happening at an accelerated rate,” said Steve Rendle, President and Chief Executive Officer. “The proliferation of technology and innovation across all aspects of our lives has shifted consumers’ shopping behaviors and elevated their expectations when engaging with our brands. We are pivoting to become more agile and consumer centric to compete and win in this changing global marketplace.”  

 Key points related to VF’s full year 2017 outlook include:   

 Revenue is expected to increase at a low single-digit percentage rate including about a two percentage point negative impact from changes in foreign currency. By coalition, revenue for Outdoor & Action Sports is expected to increase at a low single-digit percentage rate (up at a mid-single-digit rate currency neutral); revenue for Jeanswear is expected to approximate 2016 levels; Imagewear revenue is expected to increase at a low single-digit percentage rate; and Sportswear is expected to decline at a high single-digit percentage rate.  

 International revenue is expected to grow at a low single-digit percentage rate (accelerating to a high single-digit percentage rate on a currency neutral basis). By geographic region, European revenue is expected to increase at a low single-digit percentage rate (up at a high single-digit rate on a currency neutral basis). In the Asia Pacific region, revenue is expected to increase at a mid-single-digit percentage rate (up at a high single-digit rate on a currency neutral basis). And, in the Americas (non-U.S.) region, revenue is expected to increase at a high single-digit percentage rate (up at a low-teen rate currency neutral).  

 Direct-to-consumer revenue is expected to grow at a high single-digit percentage rate. Direct-to-consumer growth in 2017 includes the addition of about 50 stores and mid-single-digit comparable sales growth, including an expected increase of approximately 25 percent in e-commerce revenue.  

 Gross margin is expected to be about 48.6 percent, consistent with 2016 gross margin on an adjusted basis, and includes about a 70 basis point negative impact from changes in foreign currency.  

 Operating margin is expected to approximate 14 percent, including about a 70 basis point negative impact from changes in foreign currency.  

 Earnings per share is expected to be down at a low single-digit percentage rate compared to 2016 adjusted EPS of $3.11 (up at a mid-single-digit percentage rate on a currency neutral basis).  

 Cash flow from operations is expected to reach $1.5 billion.  

 VF expects to return more than $1.6 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.  

 Other full year assumptions include an effective tax rate in the low 20 percent range and capital expenditures of approximately $225 million.   

 In the first half of 2017, we expect revenue on a reported basis to decline at a low single-digit percentage rate (about flat on a currency neutral basis). We expect earnings per share to decline at a mid-single-digit percentage rate on a reported basis (up at a low single-digit rate on a currency neutral basis).  

 In the second half of 2017, we expect revenue on a reported basis to increase at a low single-digit percentage rate (up at a mid-single-digit rate on a currency neutral basis). Earnings per share is expected to increase at a low single-digit percentage rate on a reported basis (up at a high single-digit rate on a currency neutral basis).  

 Dividend Declared  

 VF’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.42 per share, payable on March 20, 2017 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2017.  

 Webcast Information  

 VF will host its 2016 fourth quarter conference call beginning at approximately 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. The conference call will be broadcast live via the internet, accessible at ir.vfc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location.  

 About VF  

 VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) is a global leader in the design, manufacture, marketing and distribution of branded lifestyle apparel, footwear and accessories. The company’s highly diversified portfolio of powerful brands spans numerous geographies, product categories, consumer demographics and sales channels, giving VF a unique industry position and the ability to create sustainable, long-term growth for our customers and shareholders. The company’s largest brands are Vans®, The North Face®,Timberland®, Wrangler®, and Lee®. For more information, visit www.vfc.com.  

 Forward-looking Statements  

 Certain statements included in this release and attachments are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “should,” and “may” and other words and terms of similar meaning or use of future dates. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include, but are not limited to: foreign currency fluctuations; the level of consumer demand for apparel, footwear and accessories; disruption to VF’s distribution system; VF's reliance on a small number of large customers; the financial strength of VF's customers; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets; VF's response to changing fashion trends; increasing pressure on margins; VF's ability to implement its business strategy; VF's ability to grow its international and direct-to-consumer businesses; VF’s and its customers’ and vendors’ ability to maintain the strength and security of information technology systems; stability of VF's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; continued use by VF's suppliers of ethical business practices; VF’s ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF’s management; VF's ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; possible goodwill and other asset impairment; maintenance by VF’s licensees and distributors of the value of VF’s brands; changes in tax liabilities; legal, regulatory, political and economic risks; and adverse or unexpected weather conditions. More information on potential factors that could affect VF's financial results is included from time to time in VF's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including VF's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Non-GAAP Financial Information  

 The financial information above has been presented on a GAAP basis and on an adjusted basis which excludes the impact of impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets, pension settlement charges and restructuring charges. These adjusted presentations are non-GAAP measures. Management believes these measures provide investors with useful supplemental information regarding VF's underlying business trends and the performance of VF's ongoing operations and are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations.  

 Management uses the above financial measures internally in its budgeting and review process and, in some cases, as a factor in determining compensation. While management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of or superior to, VF's operating performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similarly titled measures presented by other companies.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Currency Neutral Adjusted Financial Information  

 VF is a global company that reports financial information in U.S. dollars in accordance with GAAP. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affect the amounts reported by VF from translating its foreign revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars, and from entering foreign currency transactions. These rate fluctuations can have a significant effect on reported operating results. As a supplement to our reported operating results, we present currency neutral financial information, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the incremental current year impact of foreign currency exchange. We use currency neutral information to provide a framework to assess how our business performed excluding the effects of changes in the rates used to calculate foreign currency translation, and transaction gains and losses. Management believes this information is useful to investors to facilitate comparison of operating results and better identify trends in our businesses.  

 To calculate foreign currency translation on a currency neutral basis, operating results for the current year period for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in effect during the comparable period of the prior year (rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the current year period). Similarly, transaction gains and losses on a currency neutral basis are calculated using exchange rates from the comparable period of the prior year.  

 These currency neutral performance measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of or superior to, our operating performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The currency neutral information presented may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  

 The financial information above has been presented on a GAAP basis and on an adjusted basis which excludes the impact of impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets, pension settlement charges and restructuring charges. These adjusted presentations are non-GAAP measures. Management believes these measures provide investors with useful supplemental information regarding VF's underlying business trends and the performance of VF's ongoing operations and are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations.  

 Management uses the above financial measures internally in its budgeting and review process and, in some cases, as a factor in determining compensation. While management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of or superior to, VF's operating performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similarly titled measures presented by other companies.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Currency Neutral Financial Information  

 VF is a global company that reports financial information in U.S. dollars in accordance with GAAP. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affect the amounts reported by VF from translating its foreign revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars, and from entering foreign currency transactions. These rate fluctuations can have a significant effect on reported operating results. As a supplement to our reported operating results, we present currency neutral financial information, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the incremental current year impact of foreign currency exchange. We use currency neutral information to provide a framework to assess how our business performed excluding the effects of changes in the rates used to calculate foreign currency translation, and transaction gains and losses. Management believes this information is useful to investors to facilitate comparison of operating results and better identify trends in our businesses.  

 To calculate foreign currency translation on a currency neutral basis, operating results for the current year period for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in effect during the comparable period of the prior year (rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the current year period). Similarly, transaction gains and losses on a currency neutral basis are calculated using exchange rates from the comparable period of the prior year.  

 These currency neutral performance measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of or superior to, our operating performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The currency neutral information presented may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Currency Neutral Financial Information  

 VF is a global company that reports financial information in U.S. dollars in accordance with GAAP. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations affect the amounts reported by VF from translating its foreign revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars, and from entering foreign currency transactions. These rate fluctuations can have a significant effect on reported operating results. As a supplement to our reported operating results, we present currency neutral financial information, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the incremental current year impact of foreign currency exchange. We use currency neutral information to provide a framework to assess how our business performed excluding the effects of changes in the rates used to calculate foreign currency translation, and transaction gains and losses. Management believes this information is useful to investors to facilitate comparison of operating results and better identify trends in our businesses.  

 To calculate foreign currency translation on a currency neutral basis, operating results for the current year period for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in effect during the comparable period of the prior year (rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the current year period). Similarly, transaction gains and losses on a currency neutral basis are calculated using exchange rates from the comparable period of the prior year.  

 These currency neutral performance measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of or superior to, our operating performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The currency neutral information presented may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  

 CONTACT:

VF Corporation

Joe Alkire, 336-424-7711

VP, Investor Relations and Financial Planning & Analysis

or

Craig Hodges, 336-424-5636

Senior Director, Corporate Communications