Exhibit99.1 

CMS Energy Announces 2020 Results, Continues Long

 Track Record of Strong EPS Growth and Raises 2021 

 Adjusted EPS Guidance 

JACKSON, Mich., February 4, 2021 – CMS Energy announced today 2020 reported earnings per share of $2.64, compared to reported earnings per share of $2.39 for 2019. The company announced adjusted earnings per share of $2.67 for 2020, compared to $2.49 for 2019. 

Financial Results and Outlook 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

CMS Energy raised its guidance for 2021 adjusted earnings to $2.83 - $2.87* per share (*See below for important information about non-GAAP measures) reflecting continued strong growth of 6 to 8 percent, with a bias toward the midpoint. 

“CMS Energy has delivered consistent industry-leading financial results for nearly two decades. That continued in 2020, and we are well positioned for success in 2021,” said Garrick Rochow, President and CEO of CMS Energy and Consumers Energy. “The company remains committed to lead the clean energy transition by bringing renewable energy and energy waste reduction opportunities to all of our customers. In 2020, we contributed more than $80 million to support our customers and the communities we serve during the pandemic, and we invested more than $700 million in gas, electric and renewable infrastructure to support our clean energy transition.” 

CMS Energy (NYSE: CMS) is a Michigan-based company that has an electric and natural gas utility, Consumers Energy, as its primary business. 

# # # 

CMS Energy will hold a webcast to discuss its 2020 year-end results and provide a business and financial outlook on February 4 at 9:30 a.m. (EST). To participate in the webcast, go to CMS Energy’s homepage (cmsenergy.com) and select “Events and Presentations.” 

Important information for investors about non-GAAP measures and other disclosures. 

*This news release contains non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (non-GAAP) measures, such as adjusted earnings. Adjustments could include items such as discontinued operations, asset sales, impairments, restructuring costs, regulatory items from prior years, or other items detailed in the attached summary financial statements. Management views adjusted earnings as a key measure of the company's present operating financial performance and uses adjusted earnings for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, the company uses adjusted earnings to measure and assess performance. Because the company is not able to estimate the impact of specific line items, which have the potential to significantly impact, favorably or unfavorably, the company's reported earnings in future periods, the company is not providing reported earnings guidance nor is it providing a reconciliation for the comparable future period earnings. The company’s adjusted earnings should be considered supplemental information to assist in understanding our business results, rather than as a substitute for the reported earnings. All references to net income refer to net income available to common stockholders and references to earnings per share are on a diluted basis. 

This news release contains "forward-looking statements." The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause CMS Energy’s and Consumers Energy’s results to differ materially. All forward-looking statements should be considered in the context of the risk and other factors detailed from time to time in CMS Energy's and Consumers Energy's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. 

Investors and others should note that CMS Energy routinely posts important information on its website and considers the Investor Relations section, www.cmsenergy.com/investor-relations, a channel of distribution. 

For more information on CMS Energy, please visit our website at cmsenergy.com.

 To sign up for email alert notifications, please visit the Investor Relations section of our website. 

Media Contacts: Katie Carey, 517/740-1739 

Investment Analyst Contact: Travis Uphaus, 517/817-9241 

2 

Page 1 of 3 

CMS ENERGY CORPORATION 

 Consolidated Statements of Income

 (Unaudited) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Page 2 of 3 

CMS ENERGY CORPORATION 

 Summarized Consolidated Balance Sheets 

 (Unaudited)  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Excludes debt, finance leases, and other financing. 

(2) Includes current and non-current portions. 

CMS ENERGY CORPORATION 

Summarized Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

(Unaudited) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(3) Includes the impact of $700 million of pension contributions in 2020. 

Page 3 of 3 

CMS ENERGY CORPORATION

 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Adjusted Net Income

 (Unaudited) [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

* Less than $0.5 million or $0.01 per share. 

Management views adjusted (non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) earnings as a key measure of the Company's present operating financial performance and uses adjusted earnings for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, the Company uses adjusted earnings to measure and assess performance. Adjustments could include items such as discontinued operations, asset sales, impairments, restructuring costs, regulatory items from prior years, or other items detailed in these summary financial statements. Adjusted earnings should be considered supplemental information to assist in understanding our business results, rather than as a substitute for reported earnings.