Exhibit   

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:

February 8, 2017Kristina Waugh 318-340-5627

 kristina.r.waugh@centurylink.com

CENTURYLINK REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2016 RESULTS

•Achieved fourth quarter operating revenues of approximately $4.3 billion; full-year 2016 operating revenues of $17.5 billion[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Increased the percentage of addressable units capable of receiving 100Mbps and 1Gig broadband speeds year-over-year by 31% and 53%, respectively, ending the year with more than 3.3 million addressable units capable of 100Mbps or higher and approximately 1.3 million addressable units capable of 1Gig or higher

•Sustained improving broadband customer trends

•Completed state and federal regulatory filings related to Level 3 Communications (Level 3) acquisition; integration planning underway; continue to anticipate closing the transaction by end of third quarter 2017

MONROE, La. — CenturyLink, Inc. (NYSE: CTL) today reported results for fourth quarter and full-year 2016. 

“CenturyLink achieved significant progress on our operational initiatives in 2016; however, full-year 2016 operating revenues and cash flows were below our expectations, primarily due to lower strategic revenue growth,” said Glen F. Post, III, CenturyLink chief executive officer and president. “We are not satisfied with these results and are making progress in a number of areas focused on continuing to improve our customer experience and further positioning CenturyLink for long-term growth.”

1

“We saw continued improvement in our broadband customer trend during the second half of 2016 and achieved modest Consumer broadband customer growth in the fourth quarter. We also continued to enhance the broadband speeds across our network and achieved nearly 5% year-over-year growth in Business high-bandwidth data services revenue in the second half of 2016. Additionally, we recently realigned our organization into primary customer-facing units enabling faster decision making and market responsiveness, increased accountability and an enhanced customer experience. Finally, our pending acquisition of Level 3 and pending sale of our data centers and associated colocation business align with our network-first focus while enhancing our opportunities to deliver complementary hosting, cloud and managed services. As we look to the future, we believe we are well positioned to drive profitable growth and shareholder value,” concluded Post. 

Fourth Quarter 2016 Consolidated Financial Results

Operating revenues for fourth quarter 2016 were $4.29 billion compared to $4.48 billion in fourth quarter 2015 as the declines in legacy3,4 voice and low-bandwidth data services revenues were partially offset by growth in strategic revenues3,4.

Operating expenses increased to $3.90 billion from $3.73 billion in fourth quarter 2015, primarily driven by Level 3 acquisition costs and an increase in severance costs, which were partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expenses. Excluding special items (primarily severance and Level 3 acquisition costs), operating expenses were $3.70 billion compared to $3.71 billion in fourth quarter 2015.

Operating income decreased to $392 million from $751 million in fourth quarter 2015 primarily due to the revenue and expense items described above. 

Operating cash flow (as defined in our attached supplemental schedules), excluding special items, decreased to $1.59 billion from $1.82 billion in fourth quarter 2015 due to the decline in operating revenues outlined above. 

Net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) were $42 million and $0.08, respectively, for fourth quarter 2016, compared to $338 million and $0.62, respectively, for fourth quarter 2015. The decrease in net income and diluted EPS was due to the decline in operating income.

Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted EPS (as reflected in our attached supplemental schedule) exclude the after-tax impact of special items, the non-cash after-tax impact of the amortization of certain intangible assets related to major acquisitions since mid-2009, and the non-cash after-tax impact to interest expense relating to the assignment of fair value to the outstanding debt assumed in connection with those acquisitions. Excluding these items, CenturyLink’s adjusted net income for fourth quarter 2016 was $292 million compared to adjusted net income of $434 million in fourth quarter 2015. Fourth quarter 2016 adjusted diluted EPS was $0.54 compared to $0.80 in the year-ago period due to lower adjusted net income. 

Full-Year 2016 Consolidated Financial Results

Operating revenues decreased to $17.5 billion from $17.9 billion in 2015. The decline in operating revenues was driven by lower voice, low-bandwidth data services and data integration revenues. These revenue declines were partially offset by increases in strategic revenues resulting primarily from increased business customer demand for high-bandwidth data services, along with growth in broadband and CenturyLink® PrismTM TV revenues.

Operating expenses decreased to $15.1 billion from $15.3 billion in 2015 primarily driven by lower depreciation and amortization expenses partially offset by Level 3 acquisition costs and an increase in severance costs. Excluding special items (primarily severance and Level 3 acquisition costs), operating expenses declined to $14.9 billion in 2016 from $15.1 billion in 2015.

Operating income decreased to $2.3 billion from $2.6 billion in 2015 primarily due to the revenue and expense items described above. 

2

Operating cash flow, excluding special items, was $6.5 billion in 2016 compared to $7.0 billion in 2015. The operating cash flow decline was driven by the decline in operating revenues outlined above. 

Net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) were $626 million and $1.16, respectively, for 2016, compared to $878 million and $1.58, respectively, for 2015. The decrease in net income and diluted EPS was due to the decline in operating income.

Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted EPS, (as reflected in our attached supplemental schedule) exclude the after-tax impact of special items, the non-cash after-tax impact of the amortization of certain intangible assets related to major acquisitions since mid-2009, and the non-cash after-tax impact to interest expense relating to the assignment of fair value to the outstanding debt assumed in connection with those acquisitions. Excluding these items, CenturyLink’s adjusted net income decreased to $1.3 billion in 2016 from $1.5 billion in 2015. Adjusted diluted EPS for 2016 was $2.45 compared to $2.71 in 2015 primarily due to lower 2016 adjusted net income.

The accompanying financial schedules provide additional details regarding the company’s special items and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.

Fourth Quarter 2016 Segment Financial Results5 

Business segment revenues were $2.55 billion, a decrease of 4.1% from fourth quarter 2015, primarily due to a decline in legacy revenues, which was partially offset by 3.0% growth in high-bandwidth data revenues. Strategic revenues were $1.23 billion in the quarter, an increase of 1.1% from fourth quarter 2015.

Consumer segment revenues were $1.45 billion, a decrease of 4.3% from fourth quarter 2015, primarily due to a decline in legacy voice revenues, which was partially offset by growth in PrismTM TV revenues. Strategic revenues were $784 million in the quarter, a 1.4% increase over fourth quarter 2015.

Realignment into Customer-Facing Organizations

In January 2017, CenturyLink implemented an organization change designed to better align its customer-facing organizations into three business units: Consumer; Enterprise; and IT and Managed Services. These organizations are fully integrated with Sales, Marketing and Service Delivery support teams to enable faster decision-making, market responsiveness and deeper accountability. This organization change is expected to create greater focus on the customer experience in each business unit and accelerate strategic revenue growth. CenturyLink also expanded its Product Development and Technology function to include Network Operations, Planning, Design and Construction to better support this new organizational structure. 

Guidance - First Quarter and Full-Year 2017

CenturyLink expects growth in strategic revenues and data integration revenues in first quarter 2017 to be offset by anticipated declines in legacy revenues, resulting in lower operating revenues and core revenues compared to fourth quarter 2016. The company expects first quarter 2017 operating cash flow to be lower than fourth quarter 2016 due to the anticipated decline in revenues and higher operating expenses primarily related to employee benefits and marketing costs, as well as approximately $40 million of fourth quarter 2016 favorable expense adjustments that are not expected to reoccur in first quarter 2017.

First Quarter 2017 (excluding special items) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3

CenturyLink anticipates lower operating revenues and core revenues in full-year 2017 compared to full-year 2016 due to expected legacy revenue declines more than offsetting anticipated increases in strategic revenue. Operating cash flow is expected to decline from full-year 2016 primarily driven by the continued decline in legacy voice and low-bandwidth data services revenues. The company also anticipates lower depreciation and amortization expense for full-year 2017 compared to full-year 2016. Free cash flow in full-year 2017 is expected to decline from full-year 2016 due to the lower level of operating cash flow and an increase in cash income taxes for the year, partially offset by lower capital expenditures.

Full-Year 2017 (excluding special items) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

All 2017 guidance figures and 2017 outlook statements included in this release (i) speak as of February 8, 2017 only, (ii) exclude the financial impact of acquiring Level 3 and the colocation business sale during 2017, (iii) exclude the impact of any share repurchases made after December 31, 2016 and (iv) exclude the effects of special items, future impairment charges, future changes in regulation, future changes in tax laws, accounting rules or our accounting policies, unforeseen litigation or contingencies, integration expenses associated with major acquisitions, any changes in our expected pension fundings, any changes in operating or capital plans or other unforeseen events or circumstances that impact our financial performance, and any future mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or other similar business transactions. We are not able, without unreasonable efforts, to reconcile our non-GAAP guidance figures appearing above under “Guidance - First Quarter and Full-Year 2017” to their most directly comparable GAAP guidance financial measures, principally due to the time and expense associated with predicting with a reasonable degree of certainty information on special items, future impairment charges, integration expenses or the impact of pending acquisitions or dispositions. Although we cannot at this time assess the magnitude of these adjustments, they could be material. See “Forward Looking Statements” below. For additional information on how we define certain of the terms used above, see "Reconciliation to GAAP" below and the attached schedules.

Investor Call

As previously announced, CenturyLink’s management will host a conference call at 3:30 p.m. Central Time today, February 8, 2017. Interested parties can access the call by dialing 866-531-7958 and entering the Conference ID 45027021. The call will be accessible for replay through February 16, 2017, by dialing 855-859-2056. Investors can also listen to CenturyLink’s earnings conference call and webcast replay by accessing the Investor Relations portion of the company’s website at www.centurylink.com through March 2, 2017. Financial, statistical and other information related to the call will also be posted to our website.

Reconciliation to GAAP 

This release includes certain non-GAAP historical and forward-looking financial measures, including but not limited to operating cash flow, free cash flow, core revenues, adjusted net income, adjusted diluted EPS and adjustments to GAAP measures to exclude the effect of special items. In addition to providing key metrics for management to evaluate the company’s performance, we believe these measurements assist investors in their understanding of period-to-period operating performance and in identifying historical and prospective trends.

4

Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the attached financial schedules. Reconciliation of additional non-GAAP historical financial measures that may be discussed during the call described above, along with further descriptions of non-GAAP financial measures, will be available in the Investor Relations portion of the company’s website at www.centurylink.com and in the current report on form 8-K that we intend to file later today. Non-GAAP measures are not presented to be replacements or alternatives to the GAAP measures, and investors are urged to consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not in substitution for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. CenturyLink may determine or calculate its non-GAAP measures differently from other companies.

About CenturyLink

CenturyLink (NYSE: CTL) is a global communications, hosting, cloud and IT services company enabling millions of customers to transform their businesses and their lives through innovative technology solutions. CenturyLink offers network and data systems management, Big Data analytics and IT consulting, and operates more than 55 data centers in North America, Europe and Asia. The company provides broadband, voice, video, data and managed services over a robust 250,000-route-mile U.S. fiber network and a 300,000-route-mile international transport network. Visit www.centurylink.com for more information.

Forward Looking Statements

Except for historical and factual information, the matters set forth in this release and other of our oral or written statements identified by words such as “estimates,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “plans,” “intends,” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements as defined by the federal securities laws, and are subject to the “safe harbor” protections thereunder. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and are based on current expectations only, are inherently speculative, and are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Actual events and results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated, projected, or implied by us if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove incorrect. Factors that could affect actual results include but are not limited to: the effects of competition from a wide variety of competitive providers, including decreased demand for our legacy offerings and increased pricing pressures; the effects of new, emerging or competing technologies, including those that could make our products less desirable or obsolete; the effects of ongoing changes in the regulation of the communications industry, including the outcome of regulatory or judicial proceedings relating to intercarrier compensation, interconnection obligations, access charges, universal service, broadband deployment, data protection and net neutrality; our ability to successfully complete our pending acquisition of Level 3, including the timely receipt of all requisite financing and all shareholder and regulatory approvals free of any detrimental conditions, and to timely realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including our ability to attain anticipated cost savings, to use Level 3’s net operating losses in the amounts projected, to retain key personnel and to avoid unanticipated integration disruptions; our ability to effectively adjust to changes in the communications industry and changes in the composition of our markets and product mix; possible changes in the demand for our products and services, including our ability to effectively respond to increased demand for high-speed broadband service; our ability to successfully maintain the quality and profitability of our existing product and service offerings, to provision them efficiently to our customers, and to introduce new offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis; the adverse impact on our business and network from possible equipment failures, service outages, security breaches or similar events impacting our network; our ability to generate cash flows sufficient to fund our financial commitments and objectives, including our capital expenditures, operating costs, periodic share repurchases, dividends, pension contributions and other benefits payments, and debt repayments; changes in our operating plans, corporate strategies, dividend payment plans or other capital allocation plans, whether based upon changes in our cash flows, cash requirements, financial performance, financial position, market conditions or otherwise; our ability to effectively retain and hire key personnel and to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements on reasonable terms without work stoppages; increases in the costs of our pension, health, post-employment or other benefits, including those caused by changes in markets, interest rates, mortality rates, demographics or regulations; adverse changes in our access to credit markets on favorable terms, whether caused by changes in our financial position, lower debt credit ratings, unstable markets or otherwise; our ability to maintain favorable relations with our key business partners, suppliers, vendors, landlords and financial institutions; our ability to effectively manage our network buildout project and our other expansion opportunities; our ability to collect our receivables from financially troubled customers; any adverse developments in legal or regulatory 

5

proceedings involving us; changes in tax, communications, pension, healthcare or other laws or regulations, in governmental support programs, or in general government funding levels; the effects of changes in accounting policies or practices, including potential future impairment charges; the effects of terrorism, adverse weather or other natural or man-made disasters; the effects of more general factors such as changes in interest rates, in operating costs, in general market, labor, economic or geo-political conditions, or in public policy; and other risks referenced from time to time in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). For all the reasons set forth above and in our SEC filings, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon any of our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of our forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, changed circumstances, or otherwise. Furthermore, any information about our intentions contained in any of our forward-looking statements reflects our intentions as of the date of such forward-looking statement, and is based upon, among other things, existing regulatory, technological, industry, competitive, economic and market conditions, and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, strategies or plans without notice at any time and for any reason.

(1)See attachments for reconciliations of non-GAAP figures to comparable GAAP figures.

(2)Beginning first quarter 2016, CenturyLink revised its free cash flow calculation. See attachments for non-GAAP reconciliations.

(3)Core revenues is a non-GAAP measure defined as strategic revenues plus legacy revenues (excludes data integration and other revenues) as described further in the attached schedules. Strategic revenues primarily include broadband, Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS), Ethernet, Optical Wavelength, colocation, hosting, cloud, video, VoIP and IT services. Legacy revenues primarily include voice, private line (including special access), switched access and Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") and other ancillary services.

(4)Beginning second quarter 2016, private line (including special access) revenues were reclassified from strategic services to legacy services. All historical periods have been restated to reflect this change.

(5)All references to segment data herein reflect certain adjustments described in the attached schedules.

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

8

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

13

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

15

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16