srcl-ex991_6.htm     

EXHIBIT 99.1 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 

Investor Relations 847-607-2012 

STERICYCLE, INC. REPORTS RESULTS 

FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR ENDED 2016 

Lake Forest, Illinois, February 15, 2017—Stericycle, Inc. (NASDAQ:SRCL), today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2016. 

FOURTH QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS COMPARED TO PRIOR YEAR: 

•  

Revenues of $ 906.4 million, up 2.0%, including a 2.9% negative impact from foreign exchange 

•  

GAAP gross profit of $373.7 million, down 1.8% 

•  

GAAP earnings per diluted share (“GAAP EPS”) decreased 82.4% to $0.14 and Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share (“Non-GAAP EPS”) decreased 20.6% to $1.00 

FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS 

Revenues for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 were $906.4 million, up $18.1 million or 2.0% from $888.3 million in the fourth quarter of last year. Acquisitions contributed approximately $5.0 million to the current period’s growth in revenues. Divestitures negatively impacted current period revenues by $0.2 million. Revenues increased 4.9% compared to the fourth quarter of last year when adjusted for unfavorable foreign exchange impacts of $25.8 million. Organic revenues grew 4.4%, or 5.2% when adjusted for manufacturing and industrial services. See Tables 1A-1C. 

“We were very pleased with our fourth quarter operational performance. Additionally, our recall team delivered a record-breaking quarter which enhanced our results,” said Charlie Alutto, President and Chief Executive Officer.  

Gross profit, reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), was $373.7 million, down 1.8% from $380.4 million in the fourth quarter of last year. GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 41.2% compared to 42.8% in the fourth quarter of last year. Non-GAAP gross profit, when adjusted for contract exit costs as identified in Table 2, was $380.2 million, a decrease of 0.2% from $380.9 million in the fourth quarter of last year. Non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 42.0% compared to 42.9% in the fourth quarter of last year. 

 “Shred-it synergies remain on track. We completed the integration of the inside sales and customer service teams and established standardized best practices for our operational teams. Additionally our cross selling efforts produced several sizable wins among our national and hospital accounts,” said Brent Arnold, Chief Operating Officer. 

GAAP earnings per diluted share decreased 82.4% to $0.14 from $0.82 in the fourth quarter of last year. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, when adjusted for various items, decreased 20.6% to $1.00 from $1.26 in the fourth quarter of last year. See Tables 3 and 4. 

FULL YEAR HIGHLIGHTS COMPARED TO PRIOR YEAR  

•  

Revenues of $3.56 billion, up 19.3%, including a 2.9% negative impact from foreign exchange 

•  

GAAP gross profit of $1.50 billion, up 18.7% 

•  

GAAP EPS decreased 30.2% to $2.08 and Non-GAAP EPS decreased 4.6% to $4.52 

 FULL YEAR RESULTS  

Revenues for the full year 2016 were $3.56 billion, up $576.4 million or 19.3% from $2.99 billion in the same period last year. Acquisitions contributed approximately $570.1 million to the current year’s growth in revenues. Divestitures negatively impacted current year revenues by $0.2 million. Revenues increased 22.2% compared to the same period last year when adjusted for unfavorable foreign exchange impact of $88.0 million. Organic revenues grew 3.2%, or 4.5% when adjusted for manufacturing and industrial services. See Tables 1A-1C. 

GAAP gross profit was $1.50 billion, up $237.0 million or 18.7% from $1.27 billion in the same period last year. GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 42.2% compared to 42.4% in the same period last year. Non-GAAP gross profit, when adjusted for contract exit costs and plant conversion expenses as identified in Table 2, was $1.51  

billion, up $244.6 million or 19.3% from $1.27 billion in the same period as last year. Non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenues was flat at 42.5% in the fourth quarter of 2016 and 2015.  

GAAP earnings per diluted share decreased 30.2% to $2.08 from $2.98 in 2015. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, when adjusted for various items, decreased 4.6% to $4.52 from $4.74 in the same period last year. See Tables 3 and 4. 

Cash flow from operations for the year ended 2016 was $547.4 million, up 40.2% from $390.3 million in the same period last year. 

CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION 

Conference call to be held February 15, 2017 4:00 p.m. Central time – Dial 866-516-6872 at least 5 minutes before start time. If you are unable to participate on the call, a replay will be available for 30 days by dialing 855-859-2056, access code 49243907. To hear a live simulcast of the call or access the audio archive, visit the investor relations page on www.stericycle.com. 

PRESENTATION OF NON-GAAP INFORMATION 

This press release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in the SEC’s Regulation G. The Company reports its financial results in compliance with GAAP, but believes that also discussing non-GAAP financial measures allows for a better period over period comparison by removing the impact of items that, in management’s view, do not reflect the Company’s underlying operating performance. These measures are also used to evaluate senior management and are a factor in determining their at-risk compensation. 

Adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted net income attributable to Stericycle common shareholders, adjusted gross profit, and adjusted revenue growth are described in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document.  

These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial results, but should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of income and other information presented herein. The non-GAAP financial measures in the press release may differ from similar measures used by other companies. A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is included in the accompanying tables.  

DISCUSSION OF ADJUSTING ITEMS FOR NON-GAAP MEASURES 

For the purpose of evaluating revenues, we present non-GAAP revenues to show the impact of foreign currency, revenues from acquisitions and Manufacturing and Industrial Services (“M&I”). Management reviews and analyzes revenues excluding the effect of foreign currency translation and revenue from acquisitions because we believe this better represents the Company’s underlying business trends, including organic revenue growth. Separate presentation of M&I allows for visibility of a revenue stream that has shown greater volatility than our other service lines.  

For the purpose of evaluating operating performance, we present our financials to show the impact of income and expenses in our non-GAAP earnings related to acquisitions. These adjustments include acquisition expense, integration expense, amortization expense, and the change in fair value of contingent consideration. This allows for comparison of period over period results without the impact of acquisition-related expenses.  

For the purpose of evaluating operating performance, we additionally present our financials to show the impact of certain expenses and income in our non-GAAP earnings to allow for period over period comparison of financials without the impact of charges that may not occur each year and if so, are due to different factors. For the periods presented, these adjustments include litigation expense, restructuring and plant conversion expenses, contract exit costs, asset impairment charges, and insurance proceeds. 

For the purpose of calculating the ultimate impact of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, we show the impact to our EPS by excluding the mandatory convertible preferred stock dividend and using the “if-converted” method of share dilution. This provides the reader insight to how our diluted shares will be affected after these preferred shares are converted to common shares. 

RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES 

Table 1 – A: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP REVENUE GROWTH – QTD Q4 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 1 – B: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP REVENUE GROWTH – YTD  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 1 – C: DISAGGREGATED REVENUE GROWTH – 2016 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 2: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP GROSS PROFIT 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 3: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO STERICYCLE COMMON SHAREHOLDERS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

a)  

Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2016, the Company has started to exclude amortization expense from non-GAAP EPS. For comparable reporting, the Company’s previously reported 2015 results are adjusted to reflect the change. 

b)  

Asset impairment charges included $28.5 million in “Selling, general and administrative expenses exclusive of depreciation” and $2.5 million with “Other (expense)/ income, net” on our Consolidated Statement of Income.  

c)  

The tax effect of the adjustments is calculated based on applying the appropriate tax rate for the jurisdictions in which the adjustment occurred for the respective periods. 

Table 4: RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP EPS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For more information about Stericycle, please visit our website at www.stericycle.com. 

Safe Harbor Statement: This press release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control (for example, general economic and market conditions). Our actual results could differ significantly from the results described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include changes in governmental regulation of the collection, transportation, treatment and disposal of regulated waste or the proper handling and protection of personal and confidential information, increases in transportation and other operating costs, the level of governmental enforcement of regulations governing regulated waste collection and treatment or the proper handling and protection of personal and confidential information, our obligations to service our substantial indebtedness and to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our private placement notes, term loan credit facility and revolving credit facility, our ability to execute our acquisition strategy and to integrate acquired businesses, competition and demand for services in the regulated waste and secure information destruction industries, political, economic and currency risks related to our foreign operations, impairments of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles, variability in the demand for services we provide on a project or non-recurring basis, exposure to environmental liabilities, fluctuations in the price we receive for the sale of paper, disruptions in or attacks on our information technology systems, compliance with existing and future legal and regulatory requirements, as well as other factors described in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate future results or trends. We make no commitment to disclose any subsequent revisions to forward-looking statements. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]