Exhibit  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 8, 2020

Jefferies Announces 2019 Financial Results

New York, New York, January 8, 2020--Jefferies Financial Group Inc. (NYSE: JEF) today announced its financial results for the three and twelve month periods ended November 30, 2019. 

Highlights for the three months ended November 30, 2019:

•Net income attributable to Jefferies Financial Group common shareholders of $196 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, primarily reflecting the previously reported $205 million pre-tax gain from the sale of our remaining 31% interest in National Beef, partially offset by a non-cash fair value reduction of $69 million to our investment in The We Company. Results also reflect strong performance in Equities and Fixed Income sales and trading, solid Investment Banking advisory revenues, continued modest results in Leveraged Finance new issuance and solid results at certain of our merchant banking investments

•Jefferies Group (Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management) pre-tax income of $24 million and net earnings of $23 million 

◦Total Net Revenues of $748 million

◦Investment Banking Net Revenues of $393 million

◦Total Equities and Fixed Income Net Revenues of $363 million

◦Asset Management Revenues (before Allocated net interest1) of $(4) million

•Merchant Banking pre-tax income of $238 million, reflecting strong performance by National Beef prior to the closing of the sale of our interest, the related pre-tax gain of $205 million, and solid results at certain of our merchant banking investments, offset by the $69 million fair value adjustment to reduce the value of our investment in We

•Return of excess capital, including special dividend of Spectrum Brands Common Stock, share repurchases and cash dividends, totaling approximately $642 million 

•Jefferies Financial Group had parent company liquidity of $2.2 billion at November 30, 2019

Highlights for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019:

•Net income attributable to Jefferies Financial Group common shareholders of $960 million, or $3.03 per diluted share, including the impact of a nonrecurring tax benefit of $545 million; adjusted net income of $415 million2, or $1.32 per diluted share2 

•Jefferies Group (Investment Banking, Capital Markets and Asset Management) pre-tax income of $325 million and net earnings of $244 million

◦Total Net Revenues of $3,113 million [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦Asset Management Revenues (before Allocated net interest1) of $117 million 

•Merchant Banking pre-tax income of $267 million, reflecting strong operating performance from National Beef and Vitesse, the $205 million pre-tax gain related to the sale of our remaining 31% interest in National Beef and the $72 million gain related to the HomeFed transaction, offset by fair value adjustments to both our investment in We and some of our mark-to-market investments in public companies

•Return of excess capital, including special dividend of Spectrum Brands common stock, share repurchases and cash dividends, totaling approximately $1.1 billion; share repurchases during the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 totaled 25.9 million shares for $506 million, or an average price of $19.52 per share 

Please refer to the Jefferies Financial Group Annual Letter from our CEO and President for discussion of results and broader perspective on our strategy and outlook. We expect to file our Form 10-K on or about January 28, 2020.

1

* * * *

Amounts herein pertaining to November 30, 2019 represent a preliminary estimate as of the date of this earnings release and may be revised upon filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). More information on our results of operations for the three and twelve month periods ended November 30, 2019 will be provided upon filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. 

This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include statements about our future and statements that are not historical facts. These forward-looking statements are usually preceded by the words "should," "expect," "intend," "may," "will," or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements may contain expectations regarding revenues, earnings, operations, and other results, and may include statements of future performance, plans, and objectives. Forward-looking statements also include statements pertaining to our strategies for future development of our businesses and products. Forward-looking statements represent only our belief regarding future events, many of which by their nature are inherently uncertain. It is possible that the actual results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Information regarding important factors, including Risk Factors that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those in our forward-looking statements is contained in reports we file with the SEC. You should read and interpret any forward-looking statement together with reports we file with the SEC.

Past performance may not be indicative of future results. Different types of investments involve varying degrees of risk. Therefore, it should not be assumed that future performance of any specific investment or investment strategy will be profitable or equal the corresponding indicated performance level(s).

For further information, please contact:

Teresa S. Gendron 

Chief Financial Officer

Jefferies Financial Group Inc. 

Tel. (212) 460-1932

Peregrine C. Broadbent

Chief Financial Officer

Jefferies Group LLC

Tel. (212) 284-2338

1Allocated net interest represents the allocation of Jefferies Group LLC's long-term debt interest expense to Jefferies Group LLC's Asset Management reportable segment, net of interest income on Jefferies Group LLC's Cash and cash equivalents and other sources of liquidity, which allocation is consistent with Jefferies Group LLC's policy of allocating such items to its business lines. Refer to Jefferies Group LLC's summary of Net Revenues by Source on pages 8 and 9.

2Jefferies Financial Group adjusted net income, a non-GAAP measure, is defined as Jefferies Financial Group's net income less accumulated other comprehensive income nonrecurring tax benefit. Jefferies Financial Group adjusted diluted earnings per share, a non-GAAP measure, is defined as Jefferies Financial Group's diluted earnings per share less accumulated other comprehensive income non-recurring tax benefit. Refer to schedule on page 12 for reconciliation to U.S. GAAP amounts. 

2

Summary for Jefferies Financial Group Inc. and Subsidiaries

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3

A summary of results for the three months ended November 30, 2019 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A summary of results for the two months ended November 30, 2018 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4

A summary of results for the twelve months ended November 30, 2019 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A summary of results for the eleven months ended November 30, 2018 is as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

The following financial tables provide information for the results of Jefferies Group LLC and should be read in conjunction with Jefferies Group LLC's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2019 and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2018. Amounts herein pertaining to November 30, 2019 represent a preliminary estimate as of the date of this earnings release and may be revised in Jefferies Group LLC's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

8

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

Jefferies Group LLC and Subsidiaries

Financial Highlights - Footnotes

(1)

Amounts pertaining to November 30, 2019 represent a preliminary estimate as of the date of this earnings release and may be revised in Jefferies Group LLC's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2019.

(2)At November 30, 2019, other sources of liquidity include high quality sovereign government securities and reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by U.S. government securities and other high quality sovereign government securities of $973 million, in aggregate, and $377 million, being the estimated amount of additional secured financing that could be reasonably expected to be obtained from Jefferies Group LLC's financial instruments that are currently not pledged after considering reasonable financing haircuts. The corresponding amounts included in other sources of liquidity at August 31, 2019 were $1,063 million and $345 million, respectively, and at November 30, 2018, were $959 million and $499 million, respectively.

(3)

Tangible Jefferies Group LLC member's equity (a non-GAAP financial measure) represents total Jefferies Group LLC member's equity less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. We believe that tangible Jefferies Group LLC member's equity is meaningful for valuation purposes, as financial companies are often measured as a multiple of tangible equity, making these ratios meaningful for investors.

(4)

Level 3 financial instruments represent those financial instruments classified as such under Accounting Standards Codification 820, accounted for at fair value and included within Financial instruments owned.

(5)

At November 30, 2019, August 31, 2019 and November 30, 2018, total long-term capital includes Jefferies Group LLC's long-term debt of $6,214 million, $6,030 million and $5,657 million, respectively, and total equity. Long-term debt included in total long-term capital is reduced by amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility, amounts from secured term loans and the amount of debt maturing in less than one year, as applicable.

(6)

Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by total equity.

(7)

Tangible gross leverage ratio (a non-GAAP financial measure) equals total assets less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets divided by tangible Jefferies Group LLC member's equity. The tangible gross leverage ratio is used by rating agencies in assessing Jefferies Group LLC's leverage ratio.

(8)

VaR estimates the potential loss in value of Jefferies Group LLC's trading positions due to adverse market movements over a one-day time horizon with a 95% confidence level. For a further discussion of the calculation of VaR, see "Value-at-Risk" in Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in Jefferies Group LLC's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2019.

11

Jefferies Financial Group Inc.

Non-GAAP Reconciliations

The following tables reconcile Jefferies Financial Group non-GAAP measures to their respective U.S. GAAP measures. Management believes such non-GAAP measures are useful to investors as they allow them to view our results through the eyes of management, while facilitating a comparison across historical periods. These measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

Jefferies Financial Group Net Income and Earnings Per Share GAAP Reconciliation

Reconciliation of Jefferies Financial Group net income to adjusted net income (a non-GAAP measure) and diluted earnings per share to adjusted diluted earnings per share (a non-GAAP measure) (in thousands, except per share amounts):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12