xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?        Document  

false0001285785MOSAIC CO  0001285785   2020-01-28 2020-01-28  

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 28, 2020 

THE MOSAIC COMPANY 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (800) 918-8270 

Not applicable 

(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Item 2.06.Material Impairments.

On January 28, 2020, The Mosaic Company (“Mosaic,” and Mosaic and its subsidiaries, individually or in any combination, “we,” “us” or “our”) announced that it intends to keep its Colonsay potash mine idled for the foreseeable future (the "Colonsay Idling") due to weak demand. The Company currently estimates that it will incur a pretax noncash charge to be recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2019 (the "Fourth Quarter") for the Colonsay Idling of up to $530 million (primarily non-cash charges for asset write-offs, and inclusive of cash severance charges of $15 million to $20 million). 

The weak demand in North America has also impacted Mosaic's Phosphates segment and the annual goodwill impairment analysis. The Company currently estimates that it will incur a notable non-cash charge to be recorded in the Fourth Quarter of up to $590 million of Phosphates segment goodwill ("Phosphates Goodwill Impairment"). 

Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is the text of Mosaic's announcement regarding the Colonsay Idling and the Phosphates Goodwill Impairment, as presented in a press release issued on January 28, 2020. 

Item 9.01.Financial Statements and Exhibits.

(d) Exhibits.

Exhibit No. Description

99.1 Press release, dated January 28, 2020, of The Mosaic Company

***** 

This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the anticipated benefits or strategic plans and other statements about anticipated future financial, production and operating performance. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of The Mosaic Company’s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: difficulties with realization of the benefits of our strategic plans; actual costs of various items differing from management’s current estimates, price and demand volatility for our Potash and Phosphate products, other changes in market conditions, changes in weather conditions; changes in farmers’ planting patterns; accidents and disruptions, including potential mine fires, floods, explosions, seismic events, sinkholes or releases of hazardous or volatile chemicals; changes in foreign currency and exchange rates; international trade risks and other risks associated with Mosaic's international operations, changes in government policy, changes in environmental and other governmental regulation, as well as other risks and uncertainties reported from time to time in The Mosaic Company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. 

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]