Exhibit 99

 VF Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2020 Results and Adjusts Full Year Fiscal 2020 Outlook  

    Revenue from continuing operations increased 5 percent (up 6 percent in constant dollars) to $3.4 billion; excluding the occupational Work business, revenue from continuing operations increased 6 percent (up 7 percent in constant dollars);   Active segment revenue increased 8 percent (up 9 percent in constant dollars) including a 12 percent (13 percent in constant dollars) increase in Vans® brand revenue; Outdoor segment revenue increased 3 percent (up 4 percent in constant dollars) including an 8 percent increase in The North Face® brand revenue;   International revenue increased 8 percent (up 9 percent in constant dollars); Europe revenue increased 4 percent (up 7 percent in constant dollars excluding divestitures); China revenue increased 30 percent (up 32 percent in constant dollars);   Direct-to-Consumer revenue increased 7 percent; Digital revenue increased 16 percent (up 17 percent in constant dollars);   Gross margin from continuing operations increased 110 basis points to 55.7 percent; on an adjusted basis, gross margin increased 100 basis points to 55.7 percent;   Operating income from continuing operations increased 11 percent; adjusted operating income from continuing operations increased 11 percent (12 percent in constant dollars); excluding the occupational Work business, adjusted operating income from continuing operations increased 14 percent (15 percent in constant dollars);   Earnings per share from continuing operations was $1.13. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 14 percent to $1.23;   Full year fiscal 2020 adjusted revenue from continuing operations now expected to approximate $11.75 billion, reflecting growth of approximately 5 percent (7 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding acquisitions and divestitures); excluding the occupational Work business, full year fiscal 2020 adjusted revenue from continuing operations is expected to increase approximately 6 percent (approximately 8 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding acquisitions and divestitures);   Full year fiscal 2020 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations now expected to be approximately $3.30, reflecting growth of approximately 15 percent (approximately 18 percent, excluding acquisitions and divestitures).     

DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 23, 2020--VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended December 28, 2019. All per share amounts are presented on a diluted basis. This release refers to “reported” and “constant dollar” amounts, terms that are described under the heading “Constant Currency - Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency.” Unless otherwise noted, “reported” and “constant dollar” amounts are the same. This release also refers to “continuing” and “discontinued” operations amounts, which are concepts described under the heading “Discontinued Operations - Kontoor Brands Business.” Unless otherwise noted, results presented are based on continuing operations. This release also refers to “adjusted” amounts, a term that is described under the heading “Adjusted Amounts - Excluding Transaction and Deal Related Expenses, Costs Related to Office Relocations and Specified Strategic Business Decisions, Pension Settlement Charges, and the Impact of Swiss Tax Legislation.” Unless otherwise noted, “reported” and “adjusted” amounts are the same. This release also refers to certain "excluding the occupational Work business" amounts, a term that is described under the heading "Adjusted Amounts - Excluding the Occupational Work Business."  

 “Our third quarter performance was strong and our year-to-date results are at the high end of our long-term growth objectives. Despite a mixed holiday season in the US, we're on track to deliver solid performance and are well positioned for continued growth and value creation in fiscal year 2021," said Steve Rendle, VF's Chairman, President and CEO.  

 Constant Currency - Excluding the Impact of Foreign Currency  

 This release refers to “reported” amounts in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), which include translation and transactional impacts from foreign currency exchange rates. This release also refers to “constant dollar” amounts, which exclude the impact of translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. The “constant dollar” amounts also exclude the impact of foreign currency-denominated transactions in countries with highly inflationary economies. Reconciliations of GAAP measures to constant currency amounts are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this release, which identifies and quantifies all excluded items, and provides management’s view of why this information is useful to investors.  

 Discontinued Operations - Kontoor Brands Business  

 On May 22, 2019, VF completed the spin-off of its Jeans business, which included the Wrangler®, Lee® and Rock & Republic® brands, as well as the VF OutletTM business, into an independent, publicly traded company under the name Kontoor Brands, Inc. (“Kontoor Brands”). Accordingly, the company has removed the assets and liabilities of the Jeans business as of this date and included the operating results and cash flows of the business in discontinued operations for all periods presented.  

 Adjusted Amounts - Excluding the Occupational Work Business  

 On January 21, 2020, VF announced that it is commencing a review of strategic alternatives for the occupational portion of its Work segment. As defined in the January 21, 2020 news release, the occupational portion of the Work segment primarily consists of nine brands and businesses: Red Kap®, VF Solutions®, Bulwark®, Workrite®, Walls®, Terra®, Kodiak®, Work Authority® and Horace Small®. The proposed transaction does not include the Dickies® and Timberland PRO® brands.  

 This release refers to certain "excluding the occupational Work business" amounts, which exclude the estimated historical and forward-looking results of the occupational Work group of brands. These excluded amounts are not indicative of the results of the occupational Work businesses as a standalone entity, and are not representative of VF’s discontinued operations in the event of a disposition. VF’s analysis of the disposition of the occupational Work businesses has not been completed and is subject to change based on the final structure of any potential transaction.  

 Adjusted Amounts - Excluding Transaction and Deal Related Expenses, Costs Related to Office Relocations and Specified Strategic Business Decisions, Pension Settlement Charges, and the Impact of Swiss Tax Legislation  

 The adjusted amounts in this release exclude transaction and deal related expenses associated with the acquisitions and integration of the Icebreaker® and Altra® brands. The adjusted amounts in this release also exclude transaction expenses associated with the completed spin-off of the Jeans business. Total transaction and deal related expenses were approximately $22 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2020. Additionally, the amounts also exclude an adjustment to tax expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 of approximately $10 million associated with the loss on sale for the Reef® divestiture.  

 The adjusted amounts in this release exclude costs primarily associated with the previously announced relocation of VF’s global headquarters and certain brands to Denver, Colorado. The adjusted amounts in this release also exclude costs related to strategic business decisions in South America and the operating results of jeanswear wind down activities in South America following the spin-off of Kontoor Brands. Total costs were approximately $16 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 and approximately $51 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2020.  

 The adjusted amounts in this release exclude a noncash pension settlement charge. The pension settlement charge was a result of actions taken to reduce risk, volatility and the liability associated with VF's U.S. pension plan. Total expense was approximately $23 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 and the first nine months of fiscal 2020.  

 The adjusted amounts in this release exclude the impact of recent Swiss tax legislation. On May 19, 2019, Switzerland voted to approve the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing ("Swiss Tax Act"). Certain provisions of the Swiss Tax Act were enacted during fiscal 2020, which resulted in adjustments to deferred tax positions of approximately $164 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2020. It is expected that additional provisions may be enacted in subsequent periods, resulting in further adjustments.  

 Combined, the above items negatively impacted earnings per share by $0.10 during the third quarter of fiscal 2020 and positively impacted earnings per share by $0.20 during the first nine months of fiscal 2020. All adjusted amounts referenced herein exclude the effects of these amounts.  

 Reconciliations of measures calculated in accordance with GAAP to adjusted amounts are presented in the supplemental financial information included with this release, which identifies and quantifies all excluded items, and provides management’s view of why this information is useful to investors.  

 Third Quarter Fiscal 2020 Income Statement Review    Revenue increased 5 percent (up 6 percent in constant dollars) to $3.4 billion, driven by VF's largest brands, and our International and Direct-to-Consumer platforms. Excluding the occupational Work business, revenue increased 6 percent (up 7 percent in constant dollars).   Gross margin increased 110 basis points to 55.7 percent, primarily driven by favorable mix shift toward higher margin businesses and timing of net foreign currency transaction gains. On an adjusted basis, gross margin increased 100 basis points to 55.7 percent.   Operating income on a reported basis was $579 million. On an adjusted basis, operating income increased 11 percent (up 12 percent in constant dollars) to $595 million. Excluding the occupational Work business, operating income increased 14 percent (up 15 percent in constant dollars). Operating margin on a reported basis increased 100 basis points to 17.1 percent. Adjusted operating margin increased 100 basis points to 17.6 percent.   Earnings per share was $1.13 on a reported basis. On an adjusted basis, earnings per share increased 14 percent to $1.23.   

 Balance Sheet Highlights  

 Inventories were up 12 percent compared with the same period last year. Excluding the occupational Work business, inventories were up 8 percent. During the quarter, VF returned approximately $189 million of cash to shareholders through dividends. The company also repurchased approximately $500 million of shares and has $3.3 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization.  

 Adjusted Full Year Fiscal 2020 Outlook  

 VF’s outlook for full year fiscal 2020 is on an adjusted continuing operations basis, which includes the occupational Work business, unless otherwise noted, and has been updated to include the following:    Revenue is now expected to be approximately $11.75 billion, reflecting an increase of approximately 5 percent (7 percent on a constant dollar basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures). This compares to a previous expectation of approximately $11.8 billion, reflecting an increase of approximately 6 percent (approximately 8 percent on a constant dollar basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures). Excluding the occupational Work business, revenue is expected to increase approximately 6 percent (approximately 8 percent on a constant dollar basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures).   By segment, revenue for Outdoor is now expected to increase approximately 4 percent (approximately 5 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions). This compares to the previous expectation of an increase in revenue of approximately 5 percent (6 percent to 7 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions). Revenue for Active is now expected to increase approximately 8 percent (approximately 12 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of divestitures). This compares to the previous expectation of an increase in revenue of approximately 8 percent to 9 percent (11 percent to 12 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of divestitures). Revenue for Work is now expected to increase approximately 1 percent (2 percent to 3 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of divestitures). This compares to the previous expectation of an increase in revenue of approximately 2 percent to 3 percent (4 percent to 5 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of divestitures). Excluding the occupational Work business, Work revenue is expected to increase approximately 3 percent (6 percent to 7 percent on a constant dollar basis excluding the impact of divestitures).   International revenue is now expected to increase approximately 6 percent, or approximately 9 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. This compares to the previous expectation of an increase in revenue of approximately 4 percent to 5 percent, or approximately 8 percent to 9 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures.   Direct-to-consumer revenue is now expected to increase approximately 9 percent to 10 percent (10 percent to 11 percent on a constant dollar basis), including about 20 percent growth in Digital on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. This compares to the previous expectation of an increase in revenue of approximately 11 percent to 12 percent (12 percent to 13 percent on a constant dollar basis), including about 25 percent growth in Digital on a constant dollar basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures.   Adjusted gross margin is still expected to be 54.1 percent, which represents an estimated increase of 80 basis points.   Adjusted operating margin is still expected to be 13.8 percent, which represents an estimated increase of approximately 90 basis points. Adjusted operating income is expected to increase approximately 12 percent (approximately 14 percent on a constant dollar basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures). Excluding the occupational Work business, adjusted operating income is expected to increase approximately 15 percent (approximately 18 percent on a constant dollar basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures).   Adjusted earnings per share is now expected to be approximately $3.30, reflecting growth of approximately 15 percent (approximately 18 percent on a constant dollar basis, excluding acquisitions and divestitures). This compares to the previous expectation of adjusted earnings per share in the range of $3.32 to $3.37, reflecting growth of 16 percent to 18 percent (19 percent to 21 percent on a constant dollar basis excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures).   Adjusted cash flow from operations is now expected to approximate $1.3 billion. This compares to the previous expectation of at least $1.3 billion.   Other full year assumptions include an effective tax rate of approximately 15.5 percent and capital expenditures of approximately $350 million. This compares to the previous expectation of an effective tax rate of approximately 15 percent to 15.5 percent and capital expenditures of approximately $400 million.   

 Dividend Declared  

 VF’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.48 per share, payable on March 20, 2020, to shareholders of record on March 10, 2020.  

 Webcast Information  

 VF will host its third quarter fiscal 2020 conference call beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. The conference call will be broadcast live via the Internet, accessible at ir.vfc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location.  

 Presentation  

 A presentation on third quarter fiscal 2020 results will be available at ir.vfc.com beginning at approximately 7:30 a.m. Eastern Time today and will be archived at the same location.  

 About VF  

 Founded in 1899, VF Corporation is one of the world’s largest apparel, footwear and accessories companies connecting people to the lifestyles, activities and experiences they cherish most through a family of iconic outdoor, active and workwear brands including Vans®, The North Face®, Timberland® and Dickies®. Our purpose is to power movements of sustainable and active lifestyles for the betterment of people and our planet. We connect this purpose with a relentless drive to succeed to create value for all stakeholders and use our company as a force for good. For more information, please visit vfc.com.  

 Forward-looking Statements  

 Certain statements included in this release and attachments are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve several risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “should,” and “may” and other words and terms of similar meaning or use of future dates. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include, but are not limited to: risks associated with the spin-off of our Jeanswear business completed on May 22, 2019, including the risk that VF will not realize all of the expected benefits of the spin-off; and the risk that the spin-off will not be tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes; the risk that there will be a loss of synergies from separating the businesses that could negatively impact the balance sheet, profit margins or earnings of VF. There are also risks associated with the relocation of our global headquarters and a number of brands to the metro Denver area, including the risk of significant disruption to our operations, the temporary diversion of management resources and loss of key employees who have substantial experience and expertise in our business, the risk that we may encounter difficulties retaining employees who elect to transfer and attracting new talent in the Denver area to replace our employees who are unwilling to relocate, the risk that the relocation may involve significant additional costs to us and that the expected benefits of the move may not be fully realized. Other risks include foreign currency fluctuations; the level of consumer demand for apparel, footwear and accessories; disruption to VF’s distribution system; the financial strength of VF's customers; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets; VF's response to changing fashion trends, evolving consumer preferences and changing patterns of consumer behavior, intense competition from online retailers, manufacturing and product innovation; increasing pressure on margins; VF's ability to implement its business strategy; VF's ability to grow its international and direct-to-consumer businesses; VF’s and its vendors’ ability to maintain the strength and security of information technology systems; the risk that VF's facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to and unable to anticipate or detect data security breaches and data or financial loss; VF's ability to properly collect, use, manage and secure consumer and employee data; stability of VF's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; continued use by VF's suppliers of ethical business practices; VF’s ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF’s management; VF's ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; possible goodwill and other asset impairment; maintenance by VF’s licensees and distributors of the value of VF’s brands; VF's ability to execute and integrate acquisitions; changes in tax laws and liabilities; legal, regulatory, political and economic risks; the risk of economic uncertainty associated with the pending exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union ("Brexit") or any other similar referendums that may be held; and adverse or unexpected weather conditions. More information on potential factors that could affect VF's financial results is included from time to time in VF's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including VF's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Contacts 

 VF Corporation 

 Joe Alkire, 720-778-4051 

 Vice President, Corporate Development, Investor Relations and Treasury 

 or 

 Craig Hodges, 720-778-4116 

 Vice President, Corporate Affairs