RetailStats Jan2015   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.

Caterpillar Inc. (“Caterpillar”, “we” or “our”) is furnishing supplemental information concerning (i) retail sales of machines to end users and (ii) retail sales of power systems (including reciprocating and turbine engines and locomotives) to end users and Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”). Caterpillar sells the majority of its machinery and power systems to independently owned and operated dealers and OEMs to meet the demands of their customers, the end users. Caterpillar believes that this supplemental information may help readers better understand Caterpillar’s business and the industries it serves, particularly in light of the time delay between Caterpillar’s sales to dealers and dealers’ sales to end users. 

In this report we are providing information by geographic region for retail sales of machines in each of our Resource Industries and Construction Industries reportable segments, as well as information regarding total retail sales of our machines globally. For our Energy & Transportation reportable segment, we are providing retail sales information by major end use. 

Beginning with January 2015, the information presented below for Resource Industries and Total Machines includes data with respect to draglines, electric rope shovels, hydraulic shovels, drills and former “Unit Rig” brand large mining trucks that, as disclosed in our Form 8-K dated October 22, 2013, was not previously included in the definition of Resource Industries in this report. The information for each of the 3-month rolling periods ended November and December 2014 has not been restated to give effect to such data. For the rolling 3-month period ended January 2015, we have included such data only for the months of January 2014 and 2015. We will continue to include data for these products each month going forward such that the rolling 3-month period ended March 2015 is expected to reflect a full comparison of the data for the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014.

The information presented in this report is primarily based on unaudited reports that are voluntarily provided to Caterpillar by its independent dealers and which are not subject to Caterpillar’s internal controls over financial reporting. Accordingly, the data collected from such third parties may not be accurate and/or complete. As such, the information presented in this report is intended solely to convey an approximate indication of the trends, direction and magnitude of retail sales and is not intended to be an estimate, approximation or prediction of, or substitute for, Caterpillar’s audited financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This information is furnished under this report with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Caterpillar does not undertake to update or adjust prior period information. 

Caterpillar Inc.

Rolling 3 Month Retail Sales Statistics

Retail Sales of Machines by geographic region for the 3-month rolling period ended as of the month indicated compared with the same period of the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Reported in constant dollars and based on unit sales as reported primarily by dealers.

Energy & Transportation Retail Sales by industry for the 3-month rolling period ended as of the month indicated compared with the same period of the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Reported in constant dollars based on reporting from dealers and direct sales.

Glossary of Terms

Construction Industries: Our Construction Industries segment is primarily responsible for supporting customers in infrastructure and building construction applications. The majority of sales in this segment are made in the heavy construction, general construction, rental, mining and quarry and aggregates markets. The Construction Industries product portfolio primarily includes the following machines:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EAME: Europe, Africa, Commonwealth of Independent States and Middle East

Energy & Transportation: Our Energy & Transportation segment is primarily responsible for supporting customers using reciprocating engines, turbines, diesel-electric locomotives, integrated systems and solutions, and related parts across industries serving oil and gas, power generation, industrial and marine applications as well as rail-related businesses.

Resource Industries: Our Resource Industries segment is primarily responsible for supporting customers in mine and quarry applications. The Resource Industries product portfolio includes the following machines: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For purposes of this report, retail sales of highwall miners and longwall miners are not included in Resource Industries.

Total Machines: In addition to the Construction Industries’ and Resource Industries’ products included in this report, Total Machines also includes the following product groups: Vocational Truck, Forestry, Paving, Industrial & Waste and Defense & Federal Products. 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Certain statements in this filing relate to future events and expectations and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “will be,” “will,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “could,” “should” or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. These statements do not guarantee future performance, and we do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. 

Caterpillar’s actual results may differ materially from those described or implied in our forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) global and regional economic conditions and economic conditions in the industries we serve; (ii) government monetary or fiscal policies and infrastructure spending; (iii) commodity price changes, component price increases, fluctuations in demand for our products or significant shortages of component products; (iv) disruptions or volatility in global financial markets limiting our sources of liquidity or the liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers; (v) political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate; (vi) failure to maintain our credit ratings and potential resulting increases to our cost of borrowing and adverse effects on our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets; (vii) our Financial Products segment’s risks associated with the financial services industry; (viii) changes in interest rates or market liquidity conditions; (ix) an increase in delinquencies, repossessions or net losses of Cat Financial’s customers; (x) new regulations or changes in financial services regulations; (xi) a failure to realize, or a delay in realizing, all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; (xii) international trade policies and their impact on demand for our products and our competitive position; (xiii) our ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our customers’ needs; (xiv) the impact of the highly competitive environment in which we operate on our sales and pricing; (xv) failure to realize all of the anticipated benefits from initiatives to increase our productivity, efficiency and cash flow and to reduce costs; (xvi) additional restructuring costs or a failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future cost reduction actions; (xvii) inventory management decisions and sourcing practices of our dealers and our OEM customers; (xviii) compliance with environmental laws and regulations; (xix) alleged or actual violations of trade or anti-corruption laws and regulations; (xx) additional tax expense or exposure; (xxi) currency fluctuations; (xxii) our or Cat Financial’s compliance with financial covenants; (xxiii) increased pension plan funding obligations; (xxiv) union disputes or other employee relations issues; (xxv) significant legal proceedings, claims, lawsuits or government investigations; (xxvi) changes in accounting standards; (xxvii) failure or breach of IT security; (xxviii) adverse effects of unexpected events including natural disasters; and (xvix) other factors described in more detail under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 17, 2015 for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]