Exhibit 99.1 2QFY15   

Exhibit 99.1  

For Release: Immediately 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Parker Reports Record Fiscal 2015 Second Quarter Sales and Earnings per Share

•Record second quarter sales increased 1% to $3.13 billion; organic sales increased 4%

•Record earnings per share of $1.80 increased 8%

•Segment operating margins increased 150 basis points to 13.7%

•Positive order growth continues 

•Company increases fiscal 2015 full year guidance 

CLEVELAND, January 27, 2015 -- Parker Hannifin Corporation (NYSE: PH), the global leader in motion and control technologies, today reported results for the fiscal 2015 second quarter ended December 31, 2014. Fiscal 2015 second quarter sales were $3.13 billion, a second quarter record, compared with $3.11 billion in the prior year quarter. Net income was $267.3 million, a 6 percent increase compared with $253.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2014. Fiscal 2015 second quarter earnings per share were $1.80, a second quarter record and an increase of 8 percent, compared with $1.66 in the prior year quarter. Adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2015 were $1.84, compared with $1.30 in the prior year quarter. A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings per share is included with the financial tables accompanying this news release. Cash flow from operations was $538.5 million or 8.4 percent of sales for the first six months of fiscal 2015 compared with $540.1 million in the prior year period.

“This was a record quarter for Parker as we continue to execute very well in fiscal 2015,” said Chairman, CEO and President, Don Washkewicz. “While currency headwinds were significant, this was offset by solid organic growth of 4%. Our year-over-year segment operating margins improved by 150 basis points, primarily reflecting strength in our Diversified Industrial North America businesses and improvement in our Aerospace Systems segment.”

Segment Results 

Diversified Industrial Segment: North American second quarter sales increased 5 percent to $1.4 billion, and operating income was $226.9 million compared with $200.6 million in the same period a year ago. International second quarter sales decreased 7 percent to $1.2 billion, and operating income was $136.5 million compared with $134.2 million in the same period a year ago.

Aerospace Systems Segment: Second quarter sales increased 11 percent to $558.4 million, and operating income was $66.8 million compared with $45.0 million in the same period a year ago. 

Orders

Parker reported an increase of 4 percent in orders for the quarter ending December 31, 2014, compared with the same quarter a year ago. The company reported the following orders by business: 

•Orders increased 4 percent in the Diversified Industrial North America businesses compared with the same quarter a year ago.

•Orders increased 1 percent in the Diversified Industrial International businesses compared with the same quarter a year ago.

•Orders increased 9 percent in the Aerospace Systems segment on a rolling 12-month average basis.

Share Repurchases

During the second quarter of fiscal year 2015, the company completed share repurchases of $817 million. 

Outlook

For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015, the company has increased guidance for earnings from continuing operations to the range of $7.70 to $8.10 per share, or $7.90 to $8.30 per share on an adjusted basis. Fiscal year 2015 guidance is adjusted for expected restructuring expenses of approximately $0.20 per share.

Washkewicz added, “We are increasing our fiscal 2015 full year guidance to primarily reflect strong first half performance and the impact of our share repurchase program. We expect currency headwinds into the future. Despite these conditions, Parker remains on track to deliver a record year.” 

NOTICE OF CONFERENCE CALL: Parker Hannifin's conference call and slide presentation to discuss its fiscal 2015 second quarter results are available to all interested parties via live webcast today at 11:00 a.m. ET, on the company's investor information web site at www.phstock.com. To access the call, click on the "Live Webcast" link. From this link, users also may complete a pre-call system test and register for e-mail notification of future events and information available from Parker. A replay of the conference call will also be available at www.phstock.com for one year after the call.

With annual sales exceeding $13 billion in fiscal year 2014, Parker Hannifin is the world's leading diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, providing precision-engineered solutions for a wide variety of mobile, industrial and aerospace markets. The company employs approximately 57,500 people in 50 countries around the world. Parker has increased its annual dividends paid to shareholders for 58 consecutive fiscal years, among the top five longest-running dividend-increase records in the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit the company's website at www.parker.com, or its investor information website at www.phstock.com.

Note on Orders

Orders provide near-term perspective on the company's outlook, particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future quarterly order rates. However, orders are not in themselves an indication of future performance. All comparisons are at constant currency exchange rates, with the prior year restated to the current-year rates. All exclude acquisitions until they can be reflected in both the numerator and denominator. Aerospace comparisons are rolling 12-month average computations. The total Parker orders number is derived from a weighted average of the 

year-over-year quarterly percent change in orders for Diversified Industrial North America and Diversified Industrial International, and the year-over-year 12-month rolling average of orders for the Aerospace Systems segment. 

Note on Non-GAAP Numbers

This press release contains references to (a) earnings per diluted share without the effect of restructuring expenses, the effects of a joint venture and the effects of asset write downs; and (b) the effect of restructuring expenses on forecasted earnings from continuing operations per diluted share. The effects of restructuring expenses, the effects of a joint venture and the effects of asset write downs are removed to allow investors and the company to meaningfully evaluate changes in earnings per diluted share and segment operating margins on a comparable basis from period to period.

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the company, including its individual segments, may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current economic environment, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in the economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment performance. Among other factors which may affect future performance are: changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs and changes in product mix; ability to identify acceptable strategic acquisition targets; uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions and similar transactions; the ability to successfully divest businesses planned for divestiture and realize the anticipated benefits of such divestitures; the determination to undertake business realignment activities and the expected costs thereof and, if undertaken, the ability to complete such activities and realize the anticipated cost savings from such activities; ability to implement successfully the Company’s capital allocation initiatives, including timing, price and execution of share repurchases; threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism; uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals; competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; the company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits; and global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability. The company makes these statements as of the date of this disclosure, and undertakes no obligation to update them unless otherwise required by law.

###

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]