Exhibit 99.1 

CELGENE ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL $5 BILLION SHARE REPURCHASE AUTHORIZATION 

SUMMIT, NJ – (February 14, 2018) – Celgene Corporation (NASDAQ: CELG) today announced the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $5 billion of the Company's common stock. This open-ended program is effective immediately. Purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time, as determined by Celgene's management and in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

“Our capital allocation priorities and financial policy remain unchanged,” said Peter Kellogg, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. “Consistent with our past practices, we continue to focus on building and diversifying our portfolio of products that address significant, unmet patient needs while opportunistically returning excess capital to shareholders.” 

About Celgene 

Celgene Corporation, headquartered in Summit, New Jersey, is an integrated global biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for the treatment of cancer and inflammatory diseases through next-generation solutions in protein homeostasis, immuno-oncology, epigenetics, immunology and neuro-inflammation. For more information, please visit www.celgene.com. Follow Celgene on Social Media: @Celgene, Pinterest, LinkedIn, Facebook and YouTube. 

Hyperlinks are provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only. Celgene bears no responsibility for the security or content of external websites. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are generally statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "estimates," "plans," "will," "outlook" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current plans, estimates, assumptions and projections, and speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement in light of new information or future events, except as otherwise required by law. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond our control. Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of the impact of a number of factors, many of which are discussed in more detail in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Contacts: 

Investors: 

908-673-9628 

investors@celgene.com 

Media: 

908-673-2275 

media@celgene.com