Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

Expedia, Inc. Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2017 Results

BELLEVUE, WA – February 8, 2018 – Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) announced financial results today for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2017.

"I am excited to report that Expedia began 2018 firmly on a path toward faster growth and greater share gains in the $1.6 trillion travel industry. Over the past several months, we have made key organizational changes, aligned our company around common objectives and began executing on a new direction aimed at accelerating the geographic expansion of our global travel platform," said CEO Mark Okerstrom. "We are now operating with a clear focus on our highest priority markets, making concentrated investments across the platform including a step function change in our pace of adding new properties to our marketplace. These efforts combined with the impact of our ongoing cloud migration result in expectations for full year 2018 Adjusted EBITDA growth of 6% to 11%*."

Key Highlights[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Room nights stayed for Brand Expedia, Hotels.com, Expedia Affiliate Network and Egencia combined increased 17% year-over-year in the fourth quarter of 2017, with HomeAway room nights stayed up 30% year-over-year for the same period.

•In 2017, gross bookings on the HomeAway platform increased 46% year-over-year to $8.7 billion. Total revenue of $906 million included transactional revenue of $617 million, which grew 115% year-over-year. 

•Expedia, Inc.'s global Core OTA lodging portfolio increased to more than 590,000 properties available as of December 31, 2017, up 69% year-over-year, including 150,000 instantly bookable HomeAway listings. 

•In the fourth quarter of 2017, Expedia repurchased 1.3 million shares for $156 million and paid $46 million in dividends. During 2017, Expedia generated nearly $1.1 billion in free cash flow.

*A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA guidance to the closest corresponding GAAP measure is not provided because we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of certain significant items without unreasonable efforts. These items include, but are not limited to, foreign exchange, returns on investment spending, and acquisition-related or restructuring expenses. As such, the items that are excluded from our non-GAAP guidance are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP results for the guidance period.

Financial Summary & Operating Metrics ($ millions except per share amounts) - Fourth Quarter 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Expedia acquired HomeAway on December 15, 2015. Beginning in the first quarter of 2017, HomeAway results are included in lodging room nights and gross bookings operating metrics, with quarterly results for 2016 adjusted to reflect this change. 

Page 1 of 22

(2) “Adjusted EBITDA” (Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization), “Adjusted net income,” “Adjusted EPS” and “Free cash flow” are non-GAAP measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). See “Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures” and “Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures” on pages 16-20 herein for an explanation and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures used throughout this release.

Financial Summary & Operating Metrics ($ millions except per share amounts) - Full Year 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Expedia acquired HomeAway on December 15, 2015. Beginning in the first quarter of 2017, HomeAway results are included in lodging room nights and gross bookings operating metrics, with quarterly results for 2016 adjusted to reflect this change. 

(2) Expedia sold its ownership interest in eLong, Inc. on May 22, 2015 and eLong is excluded from our results from that point forward. Expedia, Inc. 2016 room night growth also excludes eLong, Inc. results prior to May 22, 2015. 

(3) “Adjusted EBITDA” (Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization), “Adjusted net income,” “Adjusted EPS” and “Free cash flow” are non-GAAP measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). See “Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures” and “Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures” on pages 16-20 herein for an explanation and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures used throughout this release.

Please refer to the "Glossary of Business Terms," located in the Quarterly Results section on Expedia’s investor relations website, for business and financial statement definitions used throughout this release.

Discussion of Results

The results for Expedia, Inc. ("Expedia" or "the Company") include Expedia.com® ("Brand Expedia"), Hotels.com®, Expedia® Affiliate Network ("EAN"), trivago®, HomeAway®, Egencia®, Orbitz®, Travelocity®, Hotwire.com®, Wotif Group, CheapTickets®, ebookers®, CarRentals.comTM, Classic Vacations®, Expedia Local Expert®, Expedia® CruiseShipCenters®, SilverRail Technologies, Inc. ("SilverRail"), ALICE and AirAsia ExpediaTM, including the related international points of sale for all brands. All amounts shown are in U.S. dollars.

The results include the impacts of SilverRail and ALICE following Expedia's acquisition of majority ownership stakes in June 2017 and August 2017, respectively. All comparisons, unless otherwise noted, are to the corresponding 2016 periods.

Gross Bookings & Revenue

Gross Bookings by Segment ($ millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Some numbers may not add due to rounding.

Fourth Quarter 2017: Total gross bookings increased 14% (including 2 percentage points of positive foreign exchange impact), driven primarily by growth in Brand Expedia, HomeAway, Hotels.com, EAN and Egencia. 

Page 2 of 22

Domestic gross bookings increased 7% and international gross bookings increased 26% (including 6 percentage points of positive foreign exchange impact). International gross bookings totaled $8.0 billion and accounted for 40% of worldwide bookings, compared with 36% in the fourth quarter of 2016. 

Full Year 2017: Total gross bookings increased 13%, driven primarily by growth in Brand Expedia, HomeAway, Hotels.com and EAN. Foreign exchange impact on total gross bookings growth was negligible. Domestic gross bookings increased 8% and international gross bookings increased 21% (including 1 percentage point of positive foreign exchange impact). International gross bookings totaled $33.2 billion and accounted for 38% of worldwide bookings, compared with 35% in the prior year. 

Revenue by Segment ($ millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Some numbers may not add due to rounding.

Fourth Quarter 2017: Total revenue increased 11% (including 3 percentage points of positive foreign exchange impact), driven primarily by growth in Brand Expedia, EAN and Hotels.com. Domestic revenue increased 4% and international revenue increased 19% (including 9 percentage points of positive foreign exchange impact). International revenue equaled $1.1 billion, representing 46% of worldwide revenue, compared to 43% in the fourth quarter of 2016. 

Full Year 2017: Total revenue increased 15%, driven primarily by growth in Brand Expedia, trivago, HomeAway and EAN. Foreign exchange impact on total revenue growth was negligible. Domestic revenue increased 10% and international revenue increased 21% (including 3 percentage points of positive foreign exchange impact). International revenue equaled $4.5 billion, representing 45% of worldwide revenue, compared to 43% in the prior year. 

Product & Services Detail - Fourth Quarter 2017

As a percentage of total worldwide revenue in the fourth quarter of 2017, lodging accounted for 69%, advertising and media accounted for 9%, air accounted for 8% and all other revenues accounted for the remaining 14%.

Lodging revenue, which includes hotel and HomeAway revenue, increased 11% in the fourth quarter of 2017 on a 15% increase in room nights stayed driven by growth in Brand Expedia, EAN, Hotels.com and HomeAway, partially offset by a 4% decrease in revenue per room night. 

Air revenue was essentially flat in the fourth quarter of 2017 on a 3% increase in air tickets sold, offset by a 3% decrease in revenue per ticket year-over-year. 

Advertising and media revenue increased 13% (including 6 percentage points of positive foreign exchange impact) in the fourth quarter of 2017 due to continued growth in Expedia® Media Solutions and trivago. All other revenue increased 14% in the fourth quarter of 2017 reflecting growth in travel insurance and car rental products. 

Product & Services Detail - Full Year 2017

As a percentage of total worldwide annual revenue, lodging accounted for 68%, advertising and media accounted for 11%, air accounted for 8% and all other revenues accounted for the remaining 13%.

Page 3 of 22

Lodging revenue increased 14% in 2017 on a 16% increase in room nights stayed driven by growth in Brand Expedia, HomeAway and EAN, partially offset by a 2% decrease in revenue per room night. 

Air revenue increased 1% in 2017 on a 4% increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 3% decrease in revenue per ticket. 

Advertising and media revenue increased 33% in 2017 due to continued growth in trivago and Expedia® Media Solutions. All other revenue increased 16% in 2017 reflecting growth in travel insurance and car rental products. 

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GAAP Cost of Revenue[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GAAP Selling and Marketing[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 4 of 22

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GAAP Technology and Content[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GAAP General and Administrative[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 5 of 22

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Adjusted expenses are non-GAAP measures. See pages 16-20 herein for a description and reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measures.

Note: Some numbers may not add due to rounding.

Adjusted Cost of Revenue[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Selling and Marketing[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Technology and Content[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 6 of 22

Adjusted General and Administrative[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation Expense

Depreciation expense increased $33 million to $165 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 and $137 million to $614 million in 2017, primarily due to previously capitalized software development costs for completed technology projects which have been placed into service, as well as investments in corporate technology infrastructure. 

Stock-Based Compensation Expense

Stock-based compensation expense increased $1 million to $46 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Stock-based compensation expense decreased $93 million to $149 million in 2017, due to the exercise of Expedia's call right on certain trivago shares held by employees in 2016, as described below, as well as the reversal of approximately $41 million in the third quarter of 2017 of previously recognized stock-based compensation expense related to Expedia's former CEO.

During the second quarter of 2016, Expedia exercised its call right on certain shares held by trivago employees, which were originally awarded in the form of stock options pursuant to the trivago employee stock option plan and subsequently exercised by such employees, and elected to do so at a premium to fair value, which resulted in an incremental stock-based compensation charge of approximately $49 million in the second quarter of 2016 pursuant to liability award treatment. The acquisition of these employee minority interests increased Expedia's ordinary ownership of trivago by a nominal amount.

Net Income Attributable to Expedia and Adjusted EBITDA*

Adjusted EBITDA by Segment ($ millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Upon completion of its initial public offering on December 16, 2016, trivago became a separately listed company on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and, therefore, is subject to its own reporting and filing requirements which could result in possible differences that are not expected to be material to Expedia, Inc.(2) Expedia does not calculate or report net income by segment.

* Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. See pages 16-20 herein for a description and reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP measure.

Note: Some numbers may not add due to rounding. 

GAAP net income attributable to Expedia was $55 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to GAAP net income of $79 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. GAAP net income attributable to Expedia was $378 million in 2017, an increase of 34% compared to GAAP net income of $282 million in 2016.

Page 7 of 22

Adjusted EBITDA was $402 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, a decrease of 9% compared to Adjusted EBITDA of $442 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. Adjusted EBITDA was $1.7 billion in 2017, an increase of 6% compared to Adjusted EBITDA of $1.6 billion in 2016. 

Amortization of Intangible Assets

Consolidated amortization of intangible assets increased $3 million to $71 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, primarily due to new business acquisitions in the current year. Consolidated amortization of intangible assets decreased $42 million to $275 million in 2017, due to the completion of amortization related to certain intangible assets, partially offset by $11 million of amortization related to new business acquisitions in the current year. In addition, in 2016 we recorded a $35 million impairment loss related to indefinite-lived trade names.

Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges

In connection with activities to centralize and optimize certain operations as well as migrate technology platforms in the prior year, primarily related to the previously disclosed acquisitions, we recognized $17 million and $56 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during 2017 and 2016. Based on current plans, which are subject to change, and excluding any possible future acquisition integrations, we do not expect to incur material restructuring charges in 2018.

Interest and Other

Consolidated interest income increased $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 and increased $14 million in 2017, compared to the prior year periods, primarily due to higher invested balances in both periods, and to a lesser extent higher rates of return during 2017. Consolidated interest expense increased $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 and $9 million in 2017, compared to the prior year periods, primarily due to the issuance of the $1 billion of senior unsecured notes in September 2017. 

Consolidated other, net was a gain of $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, consistent with a gain of $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. Consolidated other, net was a loss of $61 million in 2017, compared to a loss of $32 million in 2016. The losses in 2017 and 2016 were primarily related to foreign exchange. Expedia’s revenue hedging program is designed primarily to offset the book-to-stay impact on merchant hotel revenue. Expedia includes that portion of any realized gains or losses from the revenue hedging program that are included in other, net that relate to revenue recognized in the period in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate on GAAP pretax income was 30% and 11% for the fourth quarter and full year 2017, respectively, compared to 26% and 6% in the prior year periods. The increase in the quarterly effective tax rate for 2017 compared to 2016 is due to a number of factors, including an increase in losses in foreign jurisdictions, offset by the estimated effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"). The increase in the annual effective tax rate for 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to the same factors, as well as one-time benefits in the prior year period. In addition, the effective tax rate for 2017 and 2016 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate due to earnings in foreign jurisdictions, predominantly Switzerland, where the statutory income tax rate is lower, as well as excess tax benefits related to share-based payments.

The effective tax rate on pretax adjusted net income ("ANI") was 31% and 25% for the fourth quarter and full year 2017, respectively, compared to 28% and 26% in the prior year periods. The year-over-year change in the ANI effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2017 was primarily driven by the timing of recognition for certain discrete items recorded during the fourth quarter of 2017 tied to the filing of various tax returns. The year-over-year change in the ANI effective tax rate for the full year 2017 was relatively consistent with the prior year. 

United States Tax Reform Impacts

As of December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Act. We have recognized a net tax benefit of $14 million for the provisional tax impacts of the Tax Act related to the transition tax and revaluation of our net deferred tax liability and included these estimates in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The ultimate impact may materially differ from these provisional amounts, due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes in interpretations and assumptions we 

Page 8 of 22

have made, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued and actions we may take as a result of the Tax Act. These provisional tax effects were excluded from our computation of ANI. 

Balance Sheet, Cash Flows and Capitalization

Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments totaled $3.4 billion at December 31, 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2017, consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $1.8 billion and consolidated free cash flow totaled $1.1 billion. Both measures include $593 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by an increase in deferred merchant bookings. For the three months ended December 31, 2017, consolidated free cash flow was $(308) million, a decrease of $146 million, compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities. For the year ended December 31, 2017, consolidated free cash flow was $1.1 billion, an increase of $274 million, compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the increase in net cash provided by operating activities related to changes in working capital and higher Adjusted EBITDA.

Long-term investments and other assets includes an investment in Despegar.com, Corp. ("Despegar"), which is recorded at a fair value of $264 million as of December 31, 2017, and $338 million of a $350 million investment made in Traveloka Holding Limited in July 2017, accounted for as a cost method investment (with a small portion allocated to intangible assets). Despegar completed its initial public offering in September 2017.

Current maturities of long-term debt includes $500 million in 7.456% senior notes due in August 2018. Long-term debt, net of applicable discounts, debt issuance costs and current maturities, totaled $3.7 billion at December 31, 2017 consisting of $990 million in 3.8% senior notes due 2028; $741 million in 5.0% senior notes due 2026; $495 million in 4.5% senior notes due 2024; $775 million (€650 million) in 2.5% senior notes due 2022; and $748 million in 5.95% senior notes due 2020. The 3.8% senior notes due 2028 were issued during the third quarter of 2017. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, Expedia had a $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, which was essentially untapped.

At December 31, 2017, Expedia, Inc. had stock-based awards outstanding representing approximately 18 million shares of Expedia common stock, consisting of options to purchase approximately 16 million common shares with a $95.23 weighted average exercise price and weighted average remaining life of 4.4 years, and approximately 2 million restricted stock units (“RSUs”).

During 2017, Expedia, Inc. repurchased 2.3 million shares of Expedia, Inc. common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $294 million excluding transaction costs (an average of $127.04 per share). As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 4.9 million shares remaining under a February 2015 repurchase authorization.

On December 7, 2017, Expedia, Inc. paid a quarterly dividend of $46 million ($0.30 per common share). In addition, on February 7, 2018, the Executive Committee of Expedia’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share of outstanding common stock to be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 8, 2018, with a payment date of March 28, 2018. Based on current shares outstanding, the total payment for this quarterly dividend is estimated to be approximately $46 million. Future declaration of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of Expedia’s Board of Directors.

Page 9 of 22

Recent Highlights

Expedia, Inc.

•As of December 31, 2017, Expedia's global lodging portfolio consisted of more than 590,000 properties available, including more than 150,000 HomeAway listings.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•G6 Hospitality became the latest hotel chain to implement Expedia’s Partner Loyalty Enrollment program which enables them to enlist and sign up users from Brand Expedia and Hotels.com sites for their brand loyalty programs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core OTA

•Brand Expedia launched Deutsche Bahn rail tickets as well as tickets for international rail routes to travelers in Germany, with plans to extend to an international audience in early 2018. 

•Brand Expedia launched flights and packages on its Korean site, which are now available in addition to hotels. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•EAN and Amadeus announced that travel sellers worldwide will be able to book EAN’s rates and inventory at more than 400,000 hotels worldwide through Amadeus, including full-service hotel brands, boutique hotels, and serviced apartments.

•In November, Hotwire launched its Million Dollar Sale featuring $50 5-star hotels in Las Vegas. This fixed price sale, which was the brand’s first, garnered outsized media and social buzz, more than doubled Hotwire's demand for Las Vegas during the sale period and netted four times more new customers versus typical expectations.

•Expedia CruiseShipCenters achieved over $675 million in gross bookings in 2017, exhibiting 20% year-over-year growth.

trivago[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

HomeAway[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Egencia

•Egencia surpassed one million cumulative app downloads as of the end of 2017, with downloads during the year increasing 65% over 2016. Travelers are increasingly using the app during their trips; in-trip views grew 29% year-over-year in 2017. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 10 of 22

EXPEDIA, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except for per share data)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 11 of 22

EXPEDIA, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except per share data)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 12 of 22

EXPEDIA, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In thousands)

(Unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 13 of 22

Expedia, Inc.

Trended Metrics

(All figures in millions)

The supplemental metrics below are intended to supplement the financial statements in this release and in our filings with the SEC, and do not include adjustments for one-time items, acquisitions, foreign exchange or other adjustments. The definition, methodology and appropriateness of any of our supplemental metrics are subject to removal and/or change, and such changes could be material. In the event of any discrepancy between any supplemental metric and our historical financial statements, you should rely on the information filed with the SEC and the financial statements in our most recent earnings release.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 14 of 22

Expedia, Inc. (excluding eLong)

Trended Metrics

(All figures in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Notes:

•The year-over-year growth figures through Q2 2016 exclude eLong, Inc., as Expedia sold its ownership interest on May 22, 2015.

•The metrics above include Orbitz Worldwide following the acquisition on September 17, 2015 and HomeAway following the acquisition on December 15, 2015.

•HomeAway gross bookings and room nights operating metrics include on-platform and reported transactions from all HomeAway brands, with the exception of BedandBreakfast.com and TopRural (which, if included, would collectively add less than an estimated 2% to each of gross bookings and room nights). On-platform gross bookings and room nights for Stayz, Bookabach and Travelmob (which collectively represent less than 10% of total on-platform transactions) represent our best estimates.

•Advertising & Media Revenue includes 3rd party revenue from trivago. All trivago revenue is classified as international.

•Some numbers may not add due to rounding.

Page 15 of 22

Notes & Definitions:

Gross Bookings: Gross bookings generally represent the total retail value of transactions booked, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, adjusted for cancellations and refunds.

Core OTA: Core Online Travel Agencies ("Core OTA") segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Brand Expedia, Hotels.com, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire, Orbitz, Travelocity, Wotif Group, CheapTickets, ebookers, AirAsia Expedia, CarRentals.com, Classic Vacations, SilverRail and ALICE.

trivago: trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its localized hotel metasearch websites.

HomeAway: HomeAway segment provides a range of travel services for the vacation rental industry through a global portfolio of brands including: HomeAway, VRBO, VacationRentals.com and BedandBreakfast.com, among others.

Egencia: Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers worldwide.

Corporate: Includes unallocated corporate expenses.

Lodging metrics: Reported on a stayed basis and includes both merchant and agency model hotel stays, as well as alternative accommodations primarily made available through HomeAway.

Room Nights: Room nights represent stayed hotel room nights for our Core OTA and Egencia reportable segments and property nights for our HomeAway reportable segment. Hotel room nights are reported on a stayed basis and include both merchant and agency hotel stays. Property nights are reported upon the first day of stay and check-in to a property and represent the total number of nights for which a property is rented.

Worldwide Air metrics: Reported on a booked basis and includes both merchant and agency air bookings.

Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures

Expedia, Inc. reports Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income (Loss), Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Expenses (non-GAAP cost of revenue, non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP technology and content and non-GAAP general and administrative), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business and on which internal budgets are based. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income (Loss), Adjusted EPS have certain limitations in that they do not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted EPS also exclude certain items related to transactional tax matters, which may ultimately be settled in cash, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters in the Management Discussion and Analysis, Legal Proceedings sections, as well as the notes to the financial statements, included in the Company’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The definition of Adjusted Net Income (Loss) was revised in the fourth quarters of 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2017 and the definition for Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization was revised in the fourth quarter of 2012 and in the first quarter of 2016. The definition of Adjusted Expenses was revised in the first quarter of 2014 and in the second quarter 2015.

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. adjusted for:

(1) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests;

(2) provision for income taxes;

(3) total other expenses, net;

(4) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans;

(5) acquisition-related impacts, including

(i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment,

Page 16 of 22

(ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements; and

(iii) upfront consideration paid to settle employee compensation plans of the acquiree;

(6) certain other items, including restructuring;

(7) items included in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other, which includes reserves for potential settlement of issues related to transactional taxes (e.g. hotel and excise taxes), related to court decisions and final settlements, and charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain transactional tax proceedings;

(8) that portion of gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net that relate to revenue recognized in the period; and

(9) depreciation.

The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are non-cash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison of our performance and projected cash earnings with our historical results from prior periods and to the results of our competitors. Moreover, our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. The definition for Adjusted EBITDA was revised in the fourth quarter of 2012.

Adjusted Net Income (Loss) generally captures all items on the statements of operations that occur in normal course operations and have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income (loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. plus the items below, net of tax (which excludes the impact of significant changes resulting from tax legislation such as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act):

(1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to equity plans of certain subsidiaries and equity-method investments;

(2) acquisition-related impacts, including

(i) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment,

(ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements,

(iii) upfront consideration paid to settle employee compensation plans of the acquiree, and

(iv) gains (losses) recognized on non-controlling investment basis adjustments when we acquire or lose controlling interests;

(3) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash;

(4) Upon adoption of new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2018, the changes in fair value of equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method and those which are consolidated);

(5) certain other items, including restructuring charges;

(6) items included in Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other, which includes reserves for potential settlement of issues related to transactional taxes (e.g., hotel occupancy and excise taxes), related court decisions and final settlements, and charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain transactional tax proceedings, including as part of equity method investments;

(7) discontinued operations;

(8) the non-controlling interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items and

(9) unrealized gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net.

We believe Adjusted Net Income (Loss) is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.’s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of certain expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. The definition for adjusted net income (loss) was revised in the fourth quarters of 2010, 2011 and 2012.

Page 17 of 22

Adjusted EPS is defined as Adjusted Net Income (Loss) divided by adjusted weighted average shares outstanding, which include dilution from options per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia’s consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of certain expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as Adjusted EBITDA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income (Loss) does not include all items that affect our net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of operations.

Free Cash Flow is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. We added additional detail for the capital expenditures associated with building our new headquarters facility in Seattle, Washington. We believe separating out capital expenditures for this discrete project is important to provide additional transparency to investors related to operating versus project-related capital expenditures. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.

Adjusted Expenses (cost of revenue, selling and marketing, technology and content and general and administrative expenses) exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards as well as depreciation expense. Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation and depreciation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards, management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. Exclusion of depreciation expense also allows the year-over-year comparison of expenses on a basis that is consistent with the year-over-year comparison of Adjusted EBITDA. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation and depreciation expense, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees’ compensation and depreciation expense is also a recurring expense and is a direct result of previous capital investment decisions made by management. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Notes to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock-based compensation and depreciation expense by line item. 

Page 18 of 22

Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures

Adjusted EBITDA (Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation & Amortization)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Page 19 of 22

Free Cash Flow

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Expenses (cost of revenue, selling and marketing, technology and content and general and administrative expenses)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Conference Call

Expedia, Inc. will webcast a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year 2017 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, February 8, 2018 at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time (PT). The webcast will be open to the public and available via ir.expediainc.com. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the webcast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.

Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

This release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations as of February 8, 2018 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as “intend” and “expect,” among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive 

Page 20 of 22

means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income (loss), earnings per share and other measures of results of operations and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.’s business.

Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others:

•an increasingly competitive global environment;

•our failure to invest in evolving channels, offer new consumer choices, adapt to competitive or consumer preference developments, or modify our current business models and practices or adopt new business models or practices in order to compete in a dynamic industry;

•changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or other traffic-generating arrangements;

•our failure to maintain and expand our relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or travel distribution partners;

•declines or disruptions in the travel industry;

•our failure to maintain and expand our brand awareness or increased costs to do so;

•our failure to invest in and adapt to technological developments and industry trends;

•risks related to our acquisitions, investments or significant commercial arrangements;

•risks related to regulatory developments that affect the vacation rental industry or HomeAway’s continued transition to a primarily transaction-based business; 

•risks relating to our operations in international markets;

•our failure to comply with current laws, rules and regulations, or changes to such laws, rules and regulations;

•adverse application of existing tax laws, rules or regulations, or how these laws, rules or regulations are subject to interpretation by taxing authorities;

•changes to the taxation of international business activities, the adoption of other corporate tax reform policies, or changes in tax legislation or policies;

•adverse outcomes in legal proceedings to which we are a party;

•interruption, security breaches and lack of redundancy in our information systems;

•our failure to comply with governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to our processing, storage, use, disclosure and protection of personal information, payment card information and other consumer data;

•our failure to comply with international privacy regulations;

•risks related to payments and fraud;

•fluctuations in foreign exchange rates;

•volatility in our stock price;

•liquidity constraints or our inability to access the capital markets when necessary or desirable;

•our failure to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including senior management;

•changes in control of the Company;

•management and director conflicts of interest;

•risks related to actions taken by our business partners and third party service providers, including failure to comply with our requirements or standards or the requirements or standards of governmental authorities, or any cessation of their operations;

•risks related to the failure of counterparties to perform on financial obligations;

•risks related to our long-term indebtedness, including our failure to effectively operate our businesses due to restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness;

•our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information from copying or use by others, including potential competitors;

Page 21 of 22

as well as other risks detailed in our public filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

About Expedia, Inc.

Expedia, Inc. is the world’s largest online travel company, with an extensive brand portfolio that includes leading online travel brands, such as:

•Expedia.com®, a leading full-service online travel brand with localized sites in 33 countries

•Hotels.com®, a leading global lodging expert operating 90 localized websites in 41 languages with its award winning Hotels.com® Rewards loyalty program 

•Expedia® Affiliate Network (EAN), a global B2B brand that powers the hotel business of hundreds of leading airlines, travel agencies, loyalty and corporate travel companies plus several top consumer brands through its API and template solutions

•trivago®, a leading online hotel search platform with sites in 55 countries worldwide

•HomeAway®, a global online marketplace for the vacation rental industry, which also includes the VRBO®, VacationRentals.com® and BedandBreakfast.com® brands, among others

•Egencia®, a leading corporate travel management company

•Orbitz® and CheapTickets®, leading U.S. travel websites, as well as ebookers®, a full-service travel brand with websites in seven European countries

•Travelocity®, a leading online travel brand in the U.S. and Canada, takes care of travelers by providing enjoyable travel through exceptional service, expert advice and guaranteed value for every trip, anytime, anywhere

•Hotwire®, a leading online travel site offering spontaneous travel through Hot Rate® deals

•Wotif Group, a leading portfolio of travel brands including Wotif.com®, Wotif.co.nz, lastminute.com.au®, lastminute.co.nz and travel.com.au®

•Expedia® Media Solutions, the advertising sales division of Expedia, Inc. that builds creative media partnerships and enables brand advertisers to target a highly-qualified audience of travel consumers

•CarRentals.comTM, a premier online car rental booking company with localized sites in four countries

•Classic Vacations®, a top luxury travel specialist

•Expedia Local Expert®, a provider of online and in-market concierge services, activities, experiences and ground transportation in over a thousand destinations worldwide 

•Expedia® CruiseShipCenters®, a provider of exceptional value and expert advice for travelers booking cruises and vacations through its network of over 250 retail travel agency franchises across North America

•SilverRail Technologies, Inc., provider of a global rail retail and distribution platform connecting rail carriers and suppliers to both online and offline travel distributors 

For corporate and industry news and views, visit us at www.expediainc.com or follow us on Twitter @expediainc.

© 2018 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners. CST: 2029030-50

Contacts

Investor Relations Communications

(425) 679-3759 (425) 679-4317

ir@expedia.com press@expedia.com

Page 22 of 22