Document   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

On February 27, 2018, Macy’s, Inc. ("Macy’s") issued a press release announcing Macy’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of and for the 14 and 53 weeks ended February 3, 2018. The full text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Macy’s reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The press release referred to above contains non-GAAP financial measures of changes in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis, operating income and diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy’s, Inc. shareholders, excluding certain items, and cash flow from operating activities net of cash used in investing activities. The excluded items consist of restructuring, impairment, store closing and other costs, retirement plan settlement charges, net premiums on the early retirement of debt and the deferred tax effects of federal tax reform. 

Macy's licenses third parties to operate certain departments in its stores and online and receives commissions from these third parties based on a percentage of their net sales. In its financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP, Macy's includes these commissions (rather than sales of the departments licensed to third parties) in its net sales. Macy's does not, however, include any amounts with respect to licensed department sales (or any commissions earned on such sales) in its comparable sales calculation on an owned basis. Management believes that the amounts of commissions earned on sales of departments licensed to third parties are not material to its results of operations for the periods presented. Management believes that providing supplemental changes in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis, which includes the impact of growth in comparable sales of departments licensed to third parties, assists in evaluating Macy's ability to generate sales growth, whether through owned businesses or departments licensed to third parties, and in evaluating the impact of changes in the manner in which certain departments are operated. The reconciliation of the forward-looking non-GAAP financial measure of changes in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis to GAAP comparable sales (i.e., on an owned basis) is in the same manner as illustrated in the press release, where the impact of growth in comparable sales of departments licensed to third parties is the only reconciling item. 

Management believes that excluding certain items from operating income and diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders that are not associated with Macy's core operations and that may vary substantially in frequency and magnitude period-to-period provides useful supplemental measures that assist in evaluating Macy's ability to generate earnings and leverage sales and to more readily compare these metrics between past and future periods. Macy’s does not provide the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure of diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy’s, Inc. shareholders excluding certain items because the timing and amount of excluded items are unreasonably difficult to fully and accurately estimate. Further, providing cash flow from operating activities net of cash used in investing activities is a useful measure in evaluating Macy’s ability to generate cash from operations after giving effect to cash used by investing activities. 

The reader is cautioned that any non-GAAP financial measures provided by Macy's are provided in addition to, and not as alternatives for, Macy's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Certain items that may have a significant impact on Macy's financial position, results of operations or cash flows must be considered when assessing Macy's actual and future financial condition and performance regardless of whether these items are included in these non-GAAP financial measures. In addition, you should note that the amounts received by Macy's on sales of departments licensed to third parties are limited to commissions received on such sales. The methods used by Macy's to calculate its non-GAAP financial measures may differ significantly from methods used by other companies to compute similar measures. As a result, any non-GAAP financial measures provided by Macy's may not be comparable to similar measures provided by other companies.

Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.

  (d) Exhibits

    99.1

 Press Release of Macy's dated February 27, 2018.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Index to Exhibits

Index Number   

99.1

 Press Release of Macy's dated February 27, 2018.