EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Arconic Monetizes Majority of Stake in Alcoa Corporation  

NEW YORK, February 15, 2017 – Arconic Inc. (NYSE: ARNC) today announced that it has monetized more than 60 percent of the 36,311,767 shares it retained in Alcoa Corporation. The sale of 23,353,000 Alcoa Corporation shares will result in approximately $890 million in proceeds.  

The proceeds bolster the Company’s cash balance, which provides financial flexibility to pay down debt and/or pursue share repurchases, based on a relative-return assessment. The timing and structure of the transaction considered minimizing risk and transaction costs.  

Arconic has carryforward tax attributes in the U.S. that are available to offset U.S. taxable income and will utilize existing tax attributes to the extent possible.  

At the separation of Alcoa Inc., Arconic chose to retain a 19.9 percent stake in Alcoa Corporation. The Company indicated it would review options for responsibly managing the stake, taking into account its continued upside potential.  

About Arconic  

Arconic (NYSE: ARNC) creates breakthrough products that shape industries. Working in close partnership with our customers, we solve complex engineering challenges to transform the way we fly, drive, build and power. Through the ingenuity of our people and cutting-edge advanced manufacturing techniques, we deliver these products at a quality and efficiency that ensure customer success and shareholder value. For more information: www.arconic.com. Follow @arconic: Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn and YouTube.  

Dissemination of Company Information  

Arconic intends to make future announcements regarding Company developments and financial performance through its website on www.arconic.com.  

1  

Forward-Looking Statements  

This release contains statements that relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “guidance,” “goal,” “intends,” “may,” “outlook,” “plans,” “projects,” “seeks,” “sees,” “should,” “targets,” “will,” “would,” or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Arconic’s expectations, assumptions or projections about the future, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements about Arconic’s strategies, outlook, business, financial prospects, and expected use of proceeds. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Although Arconic believes that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained and it is possible that actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: (a) deterioration in global economic and financial market conditions generally; (b) unfavorable changes in the markets served by Arconic; (c) the inability to achieve the level of revenue growth, cash generation, cost savings, improvement in profitability and margins, fiscal discipline, or strengthening of competitiveness and operations anticipated from restructuring programs and productivity improvement, cash sustainability, technology advancements, and other initiatives; (d) changes in discount rates or investment returns on pension assets; (e) Arconic’s inability to realize expected benefits, in each case as planned and by targeted completion dates, from acquisitions, divestitures, facility closures, curtailments, expansions, or joint ventures; (f) the impact of cyber attacks and potential information technology or data security breaches; (g) political, economic, and regulatory risks in the countries in which Arconic operates or sells products; (h) the impact of the separation on the businesses of Arconic; (i) material adverse changes in aluminum industry conditions, including fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based aluminum prices; (j) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on costs and results; (k) the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings, government or regulatory investigations, and environmental remediation; and (l) the other risk factors discussed in Arconic’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Arconic disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.  

2