Form 8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 30, 2017  

Crown Castle International Corp.  

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (713) 570-3000  

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):  

 ☐   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ☐   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.  

On January 30, 2017, Crown Castle International Corp. (“Company”) entered into an underwriting agreement (“Underwriting Agreement”) with Barclays Capital Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Mizuho Securities USA Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC and TD Securities (USA) LLC, as representatives for the several underwriters (“Underwriters”), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell to the Underwriters $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 4.000% Senior Notes due 2027 (“Notes”) in a registered public offering (“Offering”) pursuant to the Company’s shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration File No. 333-203074). For a complete description of the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, please refer to the Underwriting Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

On February 2, 2017, the Company closed the Offering of the Notes. The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of April 15, 2014 (“Base Indenture”), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (“Trustee”), as supplemented by the second supplemental indenture dated as of December 15, 2014 (“Second Supplemental Indenture”), between the Company and the Trustee, and the seventh supplemental indenture dated as of February 2, 2017 (“Seventh Supplemental Indenture” and, together with the Base Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, “Indenture”), between the Company and the Trustee. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from this offering to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings under the Company’s senior unsecured revolving credit facility.  

The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company, which rank equally with all existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Company’s obligations under its senior unsecured credit facility, and senior to all future subordinated indebtedness of the Company. The Notes will effectively rank junior to all of the Company’s secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Notes will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of the Company’s subsidiaries. The Notes will bear interest at a rate of 4.000% per annum, payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1, to persons who are registered holders of the Notes on the immediately preceding February 15 and August 15, beginning on September 1, 2017.  

The Indenture limits the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to incur certain liens and merge with or into other companies, in each case subject to certain exceptions and qualifications set forth in the Indenture.  

In the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the Indenture), holders of the Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part of the Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of such repurchase.  

The Notes will mature on March 1, 2027. However, the Company, at its option, may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time or from time to time prior to their maturity. If the Company elects to redeem the Notes prior to December 1, 2026 (the date that is three months prior to their maturity date), the Company will pay a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed plus a “make-whole” premium and accrued and unpaid interest, if any. If the Company elects to redeem the Notes on or after December 1, 2026 (the date that is three months prior to their maturity date), the Company will pay a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.  

The above description of the Indenture does not purport to be a complete statement of the parties’ rights and obligations under the Indenture and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Indenture. The Company is filing the Seventh Supplemental Indenture as Exhibit 4.1 to this report, which exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.  

ITEM 2.03 — CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT  

The information in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.  

ITEM 8.01 – OTHER EVENTS  

In connection with the offering of the Notes, the Company is filing the Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Dividends on Preferred Stock and Losses on Purchases of Preferred Stock for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, and each of the five years ended December 31, 2015 as Exhibit 12.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  

ITEM 9.01 — FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS  

 (d) Exhibits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Date: February 2, 2017  

EXHIBIT INDEX  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]