Exhibit   

Exhibit 99.1

CSRA Announces Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Results

•Revenue of $1.22 billion down 3 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2017 (sequentially) consistent with normal seasonal pattern

•Diluted EPS of $0.76 (GAAP) and $0.48 (Adjusted) reflect strong core profitability

•Robust book-to-bill ratios of 1.5x for the quarter and 1.3x for the trailing twelve months build the foundation for future growth

FALLS CHURCH, Va., Feb. 7, 2017 - CSRA Inc. (NYSE:CSRA), a leading provider of next-generation IT solutions and professional services to government organizations, today announced financial results for the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, which ended December 30, 2016. 

“Our strong third quarter was marked by superb cash flow and large, strategic new business wins,” said Larry Prior, CSRA president and CEO. “With these new wins, we are expanding our presence in next generation IT and bridging the technology needs of our customers with the capabilities and offerings of our technology partners. In addition, as we prepare for our fiscal year 2018, we crafted a clear and differentiated strategy to drive growth in our public sector markets, supported by a new brand and tagline–‘Think Next. Now.’–that captures CSRA’s ongoing commitment to the future. CSRA’s mission is to make America stronger through bigger ideas and better delivery. ‘Think Next. Now.’ imagines a better future and delivers it today for our customers, our partners, and, ultimately, all of the people our mission touches.” 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 was $1.22 billion, up 18 percent compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, as a result of the merger with SRA International, Inc. Revenue for the quarter was down 4 percent compared to pro forma revenue in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, which assumes the SRA merger occurred at the beginning of that period. 

1

Consistent with normal seasonal leave-taking patterns, revenue for the quarter decreased 3 percent compared to the second quarter of fiscal year 2017.

To reduce pension obligations and financial volatility and offer participants financial flexibility, the Company extended a voluntary offer to former employees who participated in its largest qualified pension plan to receive immediate lump sum payments. Based on participants' elections, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017, the Company made lump sum payments of $320 million and reduced pension obligations by $333 million, which necessitated a pension plan remeasurement as of December 1, 2016 with a non-cash mark-to-market benefit of $101 million. In addition, the remeasurement caused the recurring quarterly run rate for pension income to fall from $24 million in the second quarter to $(49) million in the third quarter and $21 million thereafter as a result of the lower asset base and higher projected interest rate.

The Company took advantage of improvements in the term loan markets to lower its effective interest rate, extend the maturities of all loans by one year and improve certain terms and conditions of the credit agreements. In connection with amendments to the term loans, the Company incurred a non-cash charge of $8 million to GAAP interest expense in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 for the acceleration of deferred financing costs. The lower interest rate is expected to reduce interest expense by approximately $5 million annually.

Non-cash stock compensation expense during the quarter was $18 million, of which $14 million was a one-time charge related to performance-based awards assumed as a result of the merger with SRA.

GAAP net income for the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 of $128 million, or $0.76 per share, includes the $101 million pension mark-to-market benefit, $8 million charge related to the debt amendments, and $14 million stock compensation expense, as well as $11 million of amortization of SRA contract backlog and $5 million of other pre-tax merger and integration costs. Adjusted EBITDA, which excludes these items, was $211 million for the quarter, down 8 percent from the second quarter of 2017 and down 6 percent from pro forma adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016. Adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 17.3 percent, which reflects strong cost management and excellent program performance across the business. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.48, unchanged 2 percent from pro forma adjusted diluted earnings per share in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016. 

Cash Management and Capital Deployment

For the quarter operating cash flow was $227 million, and free cash flow was $191 million, or more than 2.4 times adjusted net income. The strong cash generation reflected especially successful cash collections and lower tax payments. 

2

In addition, cash flow was higher as a result of not making a $30 million intellectual property maintenance payment to CSC in the third quarter as anticipated under the 2015 IP Matters Agreement. CSRA and CSC are in discussions regarding the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement, IP Matters Agreement, and Non-US Agency Agreement executed in November 2015. 

The Company executed on its balanced capital deployment program and used $50 million to pay down debt and $38 million to return to shareholders. As of December 30, 2016, the Company had $162 million in cash and cash equivalents and $2.6 billion in debt. 

The Company paid a cash dividend of $0.10 per share on October 4, 2016, for a total payment of $17 million as part of its regular quarterly cash dividend program. On January 24, 2017, the Company paid a cash dividend of $0.10 per share, which will be reflected in the Company's financial statements for the fourth quarter of 2017.

During the quarter CSRA repurchased approximately 689 thousand shares of common stock through open market purchases at an average price of $30.56 per share. The aggregate purchase price was $21 million, leaving $321 million remaining under its share repurchase authorization, which will expire on March 31, 2019. 

Business Development

Bookings totaled $1.9 billion in the third quarter, representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.5x. The third quarter marked the eighth consecutive quarter with a pro forma book-to-bill ratio of 1.0x or higher. Pro forma bookings for the trailing twelve-month period totaled $6.8 billion, representing a pro forma book-to-bill ratio of 1.3x. 

Included in the quarterly bookings were several particularly important single-award prime contracts:

•Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Logistics Support. Under a $744 million, five-year task order, CSRA will support the U.S. Army’s Communications-Electronics Command (CECOM), providing a wide range of mission-essential logistics, maintenance and sustainment work for current and future C4ISR systems, equipment, and ancillary operational requirements for the Warfighter and U.S. coalition forces worldwide.

•Healthcare Integrated General Ledger Accounting System (HIGLAS). The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) awarded CSRA the $323 million, seven-year HIGLAS contract. In support of CMS’s accounting system, CSRA will introduce and 

3

implement DevOps methodologies for code migration and automated testing and potentially migrate the HIGLAS application to a cloud environment.

•Department of Commerce (DOC) Cloud-Based Shared Services. CSRA received a new, single-award blanket purchase agreement with a $150 million ceiling over five years to help the DOC reduce operation costs, prepare for the 2020 census and enhance customer service quality. CSRA will develop and implement a wide variety of cloud-based shared services in the areas of acquisition, financial management, human resources and information technology.

•Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Cybersecurity Services. DHS’s Office of Cybersecurity and Communications awarded CSRA a $52 million, four-year contract to CSRA to continue to delivers technical and programmatic expertise to prevent and resolve cyber incidents. The Company will also assist in developing new cybersecurity strategies and policies to help mitigate the risk of cyber incidents.

The Company’s backlog of signed business orders at the end of third quarter of fiscal year 2017 was $15.8 billion, of which $2.7 billion was funded. Total backlog increased 3 percent compared to the pro forma backlog at the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2016. 

Forward Guidance

With three quarters of reported performance, the Company is modifying its previously announced guidance ranges for revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2017 as specified in the table below. Free cash flow guidance is unchanged. The Company elects to provide ranges for certain metrics that are not prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP because it cannot make reliable estimates of key items that would be necessary to provide guidance for its GAAP operating and cash flow measures, including pension mark-to-market adjustments and integration expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The fiscal year 2017 adjusted EBITDA and diluted EPS guidance assumes pension income of $92 million, $4 million less than previously forecasted as a result of the pension remeasurement. 

CSRA chief financial officer Dave Keffer commented, “From a financial standpoint the highlight of the quarter was the outstanding cash flow, which was well above net income and enables us to 

4

pay down debt, repurchase shares, and issue dividends to benefit our shareholders. As we approach the end of our fiscal year, we have narrowed our revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted EPS guidance ranges. We are pleased that will land near the upper end of our original adjusted earnings per share guidance. When we introduce guidance for fiscal year 2018 on our fourth quarter earnings call, we plan to exclude recurring pension income from EBITDA and EPS to enhance comparability with our peers and eliminate the effects of fluctuations that do not reflect CSRA's operational results." 

Conference Call

CSRA executive management will hold a conference call on February 7, 2017, at 5 p.m. Eastern to discuss the financial results and outlook and answer questions. Analysts and institutional investors may participate on the conference call by dialing 877-883-0383 (domestic) or 412-902-6506 (international) and entering pass code 7195260. The conference call will be webcast simultaneously to the public through a link on the Investor Relations section of the CSRA website (https://www.csra.com/investor-relations/). A replay of the conference call will be available on the CSRA website approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call.

About CSRA Inc.

CSRA (NYSE: CSRA) solves our nation’s hardest mission problems as a bridge from mission and enterprise IT to Next Gen, from government to technology partners, and from agency to agency. CSRA is tomorrow’s thinking, today. For our customers, our partners, and ultimately, all the people our mission touches, CSRA is realizing the promise of technology to change the world through next-generation thinking and meaningful results. CSRA is driving towards achieving sustainable, industry-leading organic growth across federal and state/local markets through customer intimacy, rapid innovation and outcome-based experience. CSRA has over 18,000 employees and is headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia. To learn more about CSRA, visit www.csra.com. Think Next. Now.

Forward-looking Statements

All statements in this press release that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements represent CSRA's intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs, including statements about earnings, revenues, and other future financial business performance and strategies. The forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of CSRA. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements. For a 

5

written description of these factors, see the sections titled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in CSRA's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings. CSRA disclaims any intention or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of subsequent event or otherwise.

6

CSRA INC.

CONSOLIDATED AND CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

CSRA INC.

CONSOLIDATED AND CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

8

CSRA INC.

CONSOLIDATED AND CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9

CSRA INC.

Supplemental Cash Flow Information (unaudited)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

10

Segment Operating Results

CSRA delivers IT, mission, and operations-related services across the U.S. federal government through two reportable segments–Defense and Intelligence, which supports customers in the Department of Defense (DoD) and Intelligence Community, and Civil, which supports customers in homeland security, law enforcement, healthcare, and other civil agencies as well as certain state and local government agencies. The following table summarizes pro forma revenue and pro forma segment operating income by reportable segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the three months ended December 30, 2016, Defense and Intelligence segment revenues increased by $12 million, or 2 percent, compared to pro forma revenues from the same period of the prior year. The increase was spread across a number of customers and new contracts. Third quarter fiscal year 2017 Civil segment revenues decreased by $61 million, or 8 percent compared to pro forma revenues from the same period of the prior year. The New York Health Insurance Exchange program was the primary source of the decline as a result of the achievement of a major software development milestone in the prior period. In addition, the revenues across Department of Homeland Security customers were lower as the results of expiring contracts.

For the three months ended December 30, 2016, total segment operating margin was 12.3 percent, down 230 basis points compared to pro forma total segment operating income for the 

11

third quarter of fiscal year 2016, as profitability enhancements in the Civil segment were more than offset by declines in operating income in the Defense and Intelligence segment. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The following tables illustrate the items and means to reconcile non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. CSRA management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful additional information to investors regarding the Company’s financial condition and results of operations as they provide another measure of the Company’s profitability and ability to service its debt and are considered important measures by financial analysts covering CSRA. In addition, certain non-GAAP financial measures, including total segment operating income, adjusted EPS, and free cash flow, are used in determining executive compensation. Using non-GAAP measures may have limited value as they exclude certain items that may have a material impact on reported financial results and cash flows. When analyzing CSRA’s performance, investors and securities analysts should evaluate each adjustment in our reconciliation and use pro forma adjusted measures in addition to, and not as an alternative to, GAAP measures.

Pro forma adjusted results include a full period of SRA results; assess the impact of interest, non-backlog-related intangibles amortization, recurring elements of pension income, and other costs as if the separation and merger had occurred at the beginning of the period; and exclude costs directly associated with the separation and merger transactions and the ongoing integration process. The table below summarizes the major adjustments to GAAP to derive pro forma adjusted metrics for each reporting period.

12

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

13

Pro Forma Adjusted Revenue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

14

Pro Forma Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

15

Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA

CSRA defines pro forma adjusted EBITDA as revenue less cost of services and selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) costs. In addition, pro forma adjusted EBITDA excludes periodic mark-to-market adjustments to the pension plan as well as certain non-cash items such as stock-based compensation expense.

16

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free Cash Flow

CSRA defines free cash flow as equal to the sum of (1) operating cash flows, (2) investing cash flows, excluding business acquisitions, dispositions and investments and (3) payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings. Free cash flow is further adjusted for certain cash flow items, such as (i) non-recurring separation-related payments and (ii) the relative fiscal quarter impact of net proceeds arising from the initial sale of billed and/or unbilled receivables under the Master Accounts Receivable Purchase Agreement.

17

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CONTACT:

Investors: M. Stuart Davis, 703.641.2267, stuart.davis@csra.com,

Media: Thomas Doheny, 703.641.3220, thomas.doheny@csra.com

18