UNITED STATES

 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT

 Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of

 the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: 

 ☐Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) 

 ☐Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) 

 ☐Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) 

 ☐Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) 

Item 8.01 Other Events. 

Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), has entered into a Tenth Supplemental Senior Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (the “Tenth Supplemental Senior Indenture”), dated as of January 11, 2017, amending the terms of the Senior Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. (formerly known as JPMorgan Chase Bank)), dated as of November 1, 2004 (as previously supplemented and amended, the “Senior Indenture”), to modify certain provisions of the Indenture that will apply solely to newly created series of debt securities to be issued from time to time in the future by the Company in connection with certain legal and regulatory requirements relevant to the Company as a bank holding company. In connection therewith, the Company has also entered into a U.S. Distribution Agreement among the Company, Morgan Stanley Finance LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (the “U.S. Distribution Agreement”) dated as of January 11, 2017 and a Euro Distribution Agreement between the Company and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (the “Euro Distribution Agreement”) dated as of January 11, 2017 relating to the issuance of the new series of debt securities of the Company. 

On January 11, 2017, the Company approved the following forms of notes that may be issued under the Senior Indenture (as so amended): (i) a form of Floating Rate Senior Note (the “Form of Floating Rate Senior Note”); (ii) a form of Fixed Rate Senior Note (the “Form of Fixed Rate Senior Note”); (iii) a form of Senior Variable Rate Renewable Note (the “Form of Senior Variable Rate Renewable Note”); (iv) a form of Fixed Rate Amortizing Senior Note (the “Form of Fixed Rate Amortizing Senior Note”); (v) a form of Floating/Fixed Rate Senior Note (the “Form of Floating/Fixed Rate Senior Note”); (vi) a form of Euro Fixed Rate Senior Registered Note (the “Form of Euro Fixed Rate Senior Registered Note”); (vii) a form of Euro Floating Rate Senior Registered Note (the “Form of Euro Floating Rate Senior Registered Note”); and (viii) a form of Euro Senior Registered Floating Rate Renewable Note (the “Form of Euro Senior Registered Floating Rate Renewable Note”). 

On January 11, 2017, the Company filed two Prospectus Supplements dated January 11, 2017 to be used in connection with offerings of the new series of debt securities of the Company. 

Copies of the U.S. Distribution Agreement, the Euro Distribution Agreement, the Tenth Supplemental Senior Indenture, the Form of Floating Rate Senior Note, the Form of Fixed Rate Senior Note, the Form of Senior Variable Rate Renewable Note, the Form of Fixed Rate Amortizing Senior Note, the Form of Floating/Fixed Rate Senior Note, the Form of Euro Fixed Rate Senior Registered Note, the Form of Euro Floating Rate Senior Registered Note and the Form of Euro Senior Registered Floating Rate Renewable Note are attached as exhibits hereto. 

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. 

(d) Exhibits. 

The following exhibits are part of this Report on Form 8-K: 

 1.1U.S. Distribution Agreement. 

 1.2Euro Distribution Agreement. 

 4.1Tenth Supplemental Senior Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon dated as of January 11, 2017. 

 4.2Form of Floating Rate Senior Note. 

 4.3Form of Fixed Rate Senior Note. 

 4.4Form of Senior Variable Rate Renewable Note. 

 4.5Form of Fixed Rate Amortizing Senior Note. 

 4.6Form of Floating/Fixed Rate Senior Note. 

 4.7Form of Euro Fixed Rate Senior Registered Note. 

 4.8Form of Euro Floating Rate Senior Registered Note. 

 4.9Form of Euro Senior Registered Floating Rate Renewable Note. 

 5.1Opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP relating to Global Medium-Term Notes, Series I, Series J and Series K, issued under the Senior Indenture, as amended. 

 23.1Consent of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP (included in Exhibit 5.1). 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]