EX-99.1   

Exhibit 99.1  

 News Release             

United Airlines 

Worldwide Media Relations 

872.825.8640 

media.relations@united.com          

United Reports January 2017  

Operational Performance  

CHICAGO, Feb. 8, 2017 – United Airlines (UAL) today reported January 2017 operational results, achieving the company’s best ever January completion factor on mainline flights.  

UAL’s January 2017 consolidated traffic (revenue passenger miles) increased 4.0 percent and consolidated capacity (available seat miles) increased 4.7 percent versus January 2016. UAL’s January 2017 consolidated load factor decreased 0.5 points compared to January 2016. Over 3.0 points of capacity growth in January 2017 was attributed to a higher completion percentage compared to January 2016 due to fewer winter weather disruptions in the month.  

“Building on 2016’s great results, United kicked off 2017 with a record-shattering operational performance,” said Scott Kirby, president of United Airlines. “Our team of 86,000 employees is running harder and working harder than at any other time in recent memory as we continue to deliver on our ambition to be the world’s best airline for our employees, customers and everyone we serve.”  

Operational achievements and records from January (mainline):  

   •   Achieved best ever January completion factor.  

   •   Finished first among industry peers in completion factor — the first time the company has ever achieved this in January.  

   •   Had six days with 100 percent departure completion, setting a new record for the most the company has ever had in one month.  

The company continues to expect first-quarter 2017 consolidated passenger unit revenue to be down 1.0 percent to up 1.0 percent compared to the first quarter of 2016.  

About United  

United Airlines and United Express operate more than 4,500 flights a day to 339 airports across five continents. In 2016, United and United Express operated more than 1.6 million flights carrying more than 143 million customers. United is proud to have the world’s most comprehensive route network, including U.S. mainland hubs in Chicago, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, New York/Newark, San Francisco and Washington, D.C. United operates 737 mainline aircraft and the  

 United Reports January 2017 Operational Performance / Page 2  

 airline’s United Express partners operate 483 regional aircraft. The airline is a founding member of Star Alliance, which provides service to 192 countries via 28 member airlines. For more information, visit united.com, follow @United on Twitter or connect on Facebook. The common stock of United’s parent, United Continental Holdings, Inc., is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “UAL”.  

- more -  

 United Reports January 2017 Operational Performance / Page 3  

Preliminary Operational Results  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1 Based on mainline scheduled flights departing by or before scheduled departure time  

Note: See Part II, Item 6 Selected Financial Data of the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 for the definition of these statistics  

- more -  

 United Reports January 2017 Operational Performance / Page 4  

Safe Harbor Statement  

Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements included in this investor update are forward-looking and thus reflect our current expectations and beliefs with respect to certain current and future events and anticipated financial and operating performance. Such forward-looking statements are and will be subject to many risks and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment that may cause actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Words such as “expects,” “will,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “indicates,” “believes,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “outlook” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Additionally, forward-looking statements include statements that do not relate solely to historical facts, such as statements which identify uncertainties or trends, discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. All forward-looking statements in this investor update are based upon information available to us on the date of this investor update. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Our actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements due to numerous factors including, without limitation, the following: our ability to comply with the terms of our various financing arrangements; the costs and availability of financing; our ability to maintain adequate liquidity; our ability to execute our operational plans and revenue-generating initiatives, including optimizing our revenue; our ability to control our costs, including realizing benefits from our resource optimization efforts, cost reduction initiatives and fleet replacement programs; costs associated with any modification or termination of our aircraft orders; our ability to utilize our net operating losses; our ability to attract and retain customers; demand for transportation in the markets in which we operate; an outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior; demand for travel and the impact that global economic and political conditions have on customer travel patterns; excessive taxation and the inability to offset future taxable income; general economic conditions (including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, investment or credit market conditions, crude oil prices, costs of aircraft fuel and energy refining capacity in relevant markets); economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally; the effects of any hostilities, act of war or terrorist attack; the ability of other air carriers with whom we have alliances or partnerships to provide the services contemplated by the respective arrangements with such carriers; the effects of any technology failures or cybersecurity breaches; disruptions to our regional network; the costs and availability of aviation and other insurance; industry consolidation or changes in airline alliances; the success of our investments in airlines in other parts of the world; competitive pressures on pricing and on demand; our capacity decisions and the capacity decisions of our competitors; U.S. or foreign governmental legislation, regulation and other actions (including Open Skies agreements and environmental regulations); the impact of regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks; the impact of any management changes; labor costs; our ability to maintain satisfactory labor relations and the results of any collective bargaining agreement process with our union groups; any disruptions to operations due to any potential actions by our labor groups; weather conditions; and other risks and uncertainties set forth under Part I, Item 1A., “Risk Factors,” of UAL’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, as well as other risks and uncertainties set forth from time to time in the reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  

# # #