ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The risk inherent in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the price of fuel, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as discussed below. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor do they consider additional actions we may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. Therefore, actual results may differ. See Note 8 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 6 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for additional discussion regarding risk management matters.

Aircraft Fuel

Our operating results are materially impacted by changes in the availability, price volatility and cost of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in our business. Because of the amount of fuel needed to operate our business, even a relatively small increase or decrease in the price of aircraft fuel can have a material effect on our operating results and liquidity. Market prices for aircraft fuel can be volatile, with market spot prices ranging from a low of approximately $0.37 per gallon to a high of approximately $2.35 per gallon during the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.

As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding to hedge our fuel consumption. We do not currently view the market opportunities to hedge fuel prices as attractive because, among other things, our future fuel needs remain unclear due to uncertainties regarding air travel demand and any hedging would potentially require significant capital or collateral to be placed at risk. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices. Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors. Based on our 2021 forecasted fuel consumption, we estimate that a one cent per gallon increase in the price of aircraft fuel would increase our 2021 annual fuel expense by $38 million.

87
Foreign Currency

We are exposed to the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated transactions. Our largest exposure comes from the British pound sterling, Euro, Canadian dollar and various Latin American currencies, primarily the Brazilian real. We do not currently have a foreign currency hedge program. We estimate a uniform 10% strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from 2020 levels relative to each of the currencies in which we have foreign currency exposure would have resulted in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $56 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Generally, fluctuations in foreign currencies, including devaluations, cannot be predicted by us and can significantly affect the value of our assets located outside the United States. These conditions, as well as any further delays, devaluations or imposition of more stringent repatriation restrictions, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “We operate a global business with international operations that are subject to economic and political instability and have been, and in the future may continue to be, adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control” for additional discussion of this and other currency risks.

Interest

Our earnings and cash flow are affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on our interest expense from variable-rate debt instruments and our interest income from short-term, interest-bearing investments.

Our largest exposure with respect to variable-rate debt comes from changes in LIBOR. We had variable-rate debt instruments representing approximately 40% of our total long-term debt at December 31, 2020. We currently do not have an interest rate hedge program to hedge our exposure to floating interest rates on our variable-rate debt obligations. If annual interest rates increase 100 basis points, based on our December 31, 2020 variable-rate debt and short-term investments balances, annual interest expense on variable-rate debt would increase by approximately $130 million and annual interest income on short-term investments would increase by approximately $70 million. Additionally, the fair value of fixed-rate debt would have decreased by approximately $590 million for AAG and $450 million for American.

On July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The discontinuation date for submission and publication of rates for certain tenors of USD LIBOR (1-month, 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month) is currently under consultation by the ICE Benchmark Administration (the administrator of LIBOR) and may be extended until June 30, 2023. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. Similarly, it is not possible to predict whether LIBOR will continue to be viewed as an acceptable market benchmark, what rate or rates may become acceptable alternatives to LIBOR, or what effect these changes in views or alternatives may have on financial markets for LIBOR-linked financial instruments. While the U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, has chosen SOFR as the recommended risk-free reference rate for the U.S. (calculated based on repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities), we cannot currently predict the extent to which this index will gain widespread acceptance as a replacement for LIBOR. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the United Kingdom, the United States or elsewhere.

We may in the future pursue amendments to our LIBOR-based debt transactions to provide for a transaction mechanism or other reference rate in anticipation of LIBOR’s discontinuation, but we may not be able to reach agreement with our lenders on any such amendments. As of December 31, 2020, we had $12.8 billion of borrowings based on LIBOR. The replacement of LIBOR with a comparable or successor rate could cause the amount of interest payable on our long-term debt to be different or higher than expected.

88
ITEM 8A. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA OF AMERICAN AIRLINES GROUP INC.