Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Applied is exposed to financial market risks, including fluctuations in interest rate and foreign currency exchange rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Available-for-sale Debt Securities. The market value of Applied's investments in available-for-sales securities was approximately $1.8 billion at October 31, 2021. An immediate hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of investments as of October 31, 2021 of approximately $26 million. 

Debt. At October 31, 2021, the aggregate principal of long-term senior unsecured notes issued by Applied was $5.5 billion with an estimated fair value of $6.4 billion. A hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points would result in an increase in the fair value of Applied’s long-term senior notes issuances of approximately $731 million at October 31, 2021. From time to time Applied uses interest rate swaps or rate lock agreements to mitigate the potential impact of changes in benchmark interest rates on interest expense and cash flows. 

Foreign Currency Risk

Certain operations of Applied are conducted in foreign currencies, such as Japanese yen, Israeli shekel, euro and Taiwanese dollar. Hedges are used to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on the consolidated balance sheet, statement of operations, and statement of cash flows. 

Applied uses primarily foreign currency forward contracts to offset the impact of foreign exchange movements on non-U.S. dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The foreign exchange gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in interest and other income (net) and are offset by the gains and losses on the hedges. 

Applied uses foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge a portion of anticipated non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues and expenses expected to occur within the next 24 months. Gains and losses on these hedging contracts generally mitigate the effect of currency movements on Applied’s net sales, cost of products sold, and operating expenses. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar would result in a decrease in the fair value of these hedging contracts of $177 million at October 31, 2021.

Applied does not use foreign currency forward or option contracts for trading or speculative purposes.

Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data