PART I  

Item 1. BUSINESS  

Company Background  

Avery Dennison Corporation (“Avery Dennison” or the “Company,” “Registrant,” or “Issuer,” and generally referred to as “we” or “us”) was incorporated in Delaware in 1977 as Avery International Corporation, the successor corporation to a California corporation of the same name incorporated in 1946. In 1990, we merged one of our subsidiaries into Dennison Manufacturing Company (“Dennison”), as a result of which Dennison became our wholly-owned subsidiary and in connection with which we changed our name to Avery Dennison Corporation. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.averydennison.com. Our website address provided in this Annual Report on Form 

10-K is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information on our website is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference into this report.  

Business Overview and Reportable Segments  

Our businesses produce pressure-sensitive materials and a variety of tickets, tags, labels and other converted products. We sell most of our pressure-sensitive materials to label printers and converters that convert the materials into labels and other products through embossing, printing, stamping and 

die-cutting. We sell other pressure-sensitive materials in converted form as tapes and reflective sheeting. We also manufacture and sell a variety of other converted products and items not involving pressure-sensitive components, such as fasteners, tickets, tags, radio-frequency identification (“RFID”) inlays and tags, and imprinting equipment and related solutions, which serve the apparel and other end markets.  

Our reportable segments for fiscal year 2020 were:  

   •    

Label and Graphic Materials (“LGM”);     

   •    

Retail Branding and Information Solutions (“RBIS”); and     

   •    

Industrial and Healthcare Materials (“IHM”).     

In 2020, the LGM, RBIS, and IHM segments made up approximately 68%, 23% and 9%, respectively, of our total net sales.  

In 2020, international operations constituted a substantial majority of our business, representing approximately 76% of our net sales. As of January 2, 2021, we operated approximately 190 manufacturing and distribution facilities worldwide in over 50 countries.  

For information regarding the 

coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic (collectively referred to herein as 

“COVID-19”), see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (Part II, Item 7).  

LGM Segment  

Our LGM segment manufactures and sells Fasson

®-, JAC

®-, and Avery Dennison

®-brand pressure-sensitive label and packaging materials, Avery Dennison

®- and Mactac

®-brand graphics, and Avery Dennison

®-brand reflective products. The business of this segment tends not to be seasonal, except for certain outdoor graphics and reflective products.  

Pressure-sensitive materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics, which are coated with internally-developed and purchased adhesives, and then laminated with specially-coated backing papers and films. They are then sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive coatings in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties.  

A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that adheres to a surface by 

press-on contact. It generally consists of four layers: a face material, which may be paper, metal foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive, which may be permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing material to protect the adhesive from premature contact with other surfaces that can also serve as a carrier for supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are removed, exposing the adhesive so that the label or other face material may be pressed or rolled into place. Because they are easy to apply without the need for adhesive  

1    

activation, self-adhesive materials can provide cost savings compared to other materials that require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives, while offering aesthetic and other advantages over alternative technologies.  

Label and packaging materials are sold worldwide to label converters for labeling, decorating, and specialty applications in the home and personal care, beer and beverage, durables, pharmaceutical, wine and spirits, and food market segments. When used in package decoration applications, the visual appeal of self-adhesive materials can help increase sales of the products on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive materials are also used to convey variable information, such as bar codes for mailing or weight and price information for packaged meats and other foods. Self-adhesive materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are available in a large selection of materials, which can be made into labels of varying sizes and shapes.  

Our graphics and reflective products include a variety of films and other products that are sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital printing, and other related market segments. We also sell durable cast and reflective films to the construction, automotive and fleet transportation market segments and reflective films for traffic and safety applications. We provide sign shops, commercial printers and designers a broad range of pressure-sensitive materials that allow them to create impactful and informative brand and decorative graphics. We have an array of pressure-sensitive vinyl and specialty materials designed for digital imaging, screen printing and sign cutting applications.  

In the LGM segment, our larger competitors in label and packaging materials include UPM Raflatac, a subsidiary of UPM Corporation; Lintec Corporation; Ritrama SpA, a subsidiary of the Fedrigoni Group; Flexcon Corporation, Inc.; and various regional and local companies. For graphics and reflective products, our largest competitors are 3M Company (“3M”) and the Orafol Group. We believe that entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements. We believe that our technical expertise, size and scale of operations, broad line of quality products and service programs, distribution capabilities, brand strength, and product innovation are the primary advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position.  

RBIS Segment  

Our RBIS segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of branding and information solutions to retailers, brand owners, apparel manufacturers, distributors and industrial customers. This segment experiences some seasonality, with higher volume generally in advance of the spring, fall 

(back-to-school), and holiday shipping periods. In recent years, as the apparel industry has moved to more frequent seasonal updates, this segment has experienced less seasonality.  

The branding solutions of RBIS include creative services, brand embellishments, graphic tickets, tags, and labels, and sustainable packaging. RBIS’ information solutions include item-level RFID solutions; visibility and loss prevention solutions; price ticketing and marking; care, content, and country of origin compliance solutions; and brand protection and security solutions.  

In the RBIS segment, our primary competitors include Checkpoint Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of CCL Industries Inc.; 

R-pac International Corporation; and SML Group Limited. We believe that our global distribution network, reliable service, product quality and consistency, and ability to serve customers consistently with comprehensive solutions close to where they manufacture are the key advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position.  

IHM Segment  

Our IHM segment manufactures and sells Fasson

®-brand and Avery Dennison

®-brand tapes and other pressure-sensitive adhesive-based materials and converted products, mechanical fasteners, and performance polymers. Our pressure-sensitive adhesive-based materials are available in roll form and in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. These materials and converted products are used in 

non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems for various automotive, electronics, building and construction, general industrial, personal care, and medical applications. IHM also manufactures and sells Yongle

® brand tapes for wire harnessing and cable wrapping in automotive, electrical, and general industrial applications. The mechanical fasteners are primarily precision-extruded and injection-molded plastic devices used in various automotive, general industrial, and retail applications.  

2    

For industrial and healthcare materials and converted products, our primary competitors include 3M; 

Tesa-SE, a subsidiary of Beiersdorf AG; Nitto Denko Corporation; and numerous regional and specialty suppliers. For fastener products, there are a variety of competitors supplying extruded and injection molded fasteners and fastener attaching equipment. We believe that entry of competitors is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements, and that our technical expertise, size and scale of operations, broad line of high-quality, cost-effective solutions and product innovation are the most significant advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position in this business.  

Research, Development and Innovation  

As a global leader in materials science, we seek out opportunities in the markets we serve and use innovation to develop and introduce new products and solutions. Our years of experience creating solutions for customers and our core capabilities in materials science, engineering, and process technology enable us to drive continuous innovation throughout our industries. Our innovation efforts focus on anticipating market and customer needs, and applying technology to address them. Our investment in innovation goes beyond our R&D efforts, with initiatives that aim to accelerate growth, expand margins and ensure customer success by leveraging scalable innovation platforms and delivering sustainability initiatives and cutting-edge technologies.  

Many of our products are the result of our research and development efforts. These efforts are directed primarily toward developing new products and operating techniques and improving productivity, sustainability, and product performance, often in close association with our customers. These efforts include intellectual property and research and development relating to adhesives, as well as printing and coating technologies, films, release and ink chemistries in our LGM and IHM segments. We focus on research projects related to RFID and external embellishments in our RBIS segment and medical technologies in our IHM segment, in each case for which we have and license a number of patents. Additionally, our research and development efforts include sustainable innovation and design of products that increase the use of recycled content, reduce waste, extend life or enable recycling.  

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses  

The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery Dennison, our logo, and Fasson. We believe these trademarks are strong in the market segments in which we compete.  

Human Capital Resources  

Our Global Workforce  

With approximately 76% of our 2020 net sales originated outside the U.S. and approximately half of our net sales originated in emerging markets (Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East/Northern Africa), our employees are located in over 50 countries to best serve our customers. Approximately 87% of our employees at 

year-end 2020 were located outside the U.S. and approximately 70% were located in emerging markets.  

The charts below show our global employee population by region and operational function. Over 19,000 of our approximately 32,000 employees at 

year-end 2020, representing approximately 60% of our global workforce, were in Asia, serving our customers in that region. In addition, 67% of our global workforce worked in the operations of our manufacturing facilities worldwide or in positions directly supporting them from other locations.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3    

Talent & Development  

Attracting, developing and retaining a pool of diverse and highly-skilled talent is critical to our ability to continue achieving sustainable growth. We provide ongoing support and resources to our teams worldwide to ensure that the skills of our employees evolve with our business needs, industry trends and human capital management best practices and enable increased productivity, peak performance and career growth. We have robust leadership development review and succession planning processes, which provide individually targeted development opportunities for our team members. Development, which emphasizes 

on-the-job development and coaching, also includes live and 

on-line training, special projects and in some cases cross-functional or cross-regional work assignments.  

Diversity & Inclusion  

A diverse global workforce and an inclusive culture are essential to our remaining at the forefront of materials science and manufacturing. One way we support our employees to bring their whole selves to the workplace is through our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). ERGs bring together employees who have shared interests and a common desire to make our company a more open and inclusive workplace. Our ERGs currently include 13 groups focused on driving inclusion and advancement for women, employees of color, LGBTQ+ employees, veterans and others.  

Pay & Benefits  

Our compensation philosophy is to offer market-based, competitive wages and benefits in all markets where we compete for talent – all of our employees were paid at least the applicable legal minimum wage, and 97% of our employees were paid above the applicable legal minimum wage at 

year-end 2020. Pay is positioned around the market median, with variances based on knowledge, skills, years of experience and performance. In addition to base wages, our compensation and benefit programs – which vary by region, country and business unit – include short-term incentives, long-term incentives (e.g., cash- and stock-based awards), employee savings plans, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, flexible work arrangements, and employee assistance programs. We regularly evaluate pay equity, expanding our review in 2020 to include race/ethnicity in addition to gender, and we make adjustments to compensation where needed.  

Workforce Health & Safety  

We work hard to ensure our manufacturing facilities, distribution centers and administrative offices focus on safety, so that anyone working in or visiting one of our locations feels and remains safe from injury. In 2020, our global Recordable Incident Rate of 0.21 in 2020 was significantly lower than the Occupational Safety and Health Administration manufacturing industry average of 3.0 in 2019 (the most recent available industry average).  

Employee Engagement  

Because we believe that an engaged workforce is a more innovative, productive and satisfied workforce, promoting retention and minimizing employee turnover, we annually conduct a global employee engagement survey. Our business and functional teams use the results of our survey to identify and implement actions to address noted areas of improvement. While employee engagement is the result of many factors, we believe strong, encouraging and open leadership, as well as a continued effort to foster a collaborative, supportive culture, leads to strong workforce engagement. We want all employees to strive to be their best and to feel like they have the support necessary to deliver exceptional results for themselves and our company.  

Manufacturing and Environmental Matters  

We use various raw materials – primarily paper, plastic films and resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various commercial and industrial sources – that are subject to price fluctuations. Although shortages can occur from time to time, these raw materials are generally available.  

We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using water-based emulsion and 

hot-melt adhesive technologies. A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes organic solvents, which, unless controlled, could be emitted into the atmosphere or contaminate soil or groundwater. Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of volatile organic compounds, which are regulated by federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to minimize these  

4    

emissions. In connection with the maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment, we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in regulating these emissions.  

We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, 

hot-melt adhesives, and solventless and emulsion silicone systems have been installed in many of our facilities.  

Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of complying with applicable laws regulating the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position, results of operations or competitive position.  

For information regarding our potential responsibility for cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see Note 8, “Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2020 Annual Report for more information, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Available Information  

Our Annual Reports on Form 

10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 

10-Q, Current Reports on Form 

8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on our investor website at www.investors.averydennison.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information located there is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference into this report. We also make available on the investors section of our website under Corporate Governance – the following documents as currently in effect: (i) Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; (ii) Amended and Restated Bylaws; (iii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; (iv) Code of Conduct, which applies to our directors, officers and employees; (v) Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers; (vi) charters of the Audit and Finance, Talent and Compensation, and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors; and (vii) Audit Committee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters. These documents are also available free of charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 207 Goode Avenue, Glendale, California 91203.  

Reports filed with or furnished to the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov.  

5    

Item 1A.  

RISK FACTORS