MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

As described further throughout this Executive Summary, during 2020, Citi demonstrated solid performance as well as financial strength and operational resilience, despite a significant deterioration in public health and economic conditions during the year due to the COVID-19 pandemic:

•Citi’s earnings were substantially reduced by a higher allowance for credit loss (ACL) build (approximately $9.8 billion) during the year under the CECL standard (see “Cost of Credit” below).

•Despite the challenging environment, Citi’s revenues were largely unchanged from the prior year, as strong performance in fixed income markets, equity markets, investment banking and the private bank in Institutional Clients Group (ICG) offset the impact of lower interest rates across the Company, as well as the impact of lower customer activity in Global Consumer Banking (GCB), reflecting declines across all regions, and lower revenues in Corporate/Other.

•Citi’s expenses reflected continued investments in its transformation, including infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, as well as a $400 million civil money penalty in the third quarter of 2020 in connection with a consent order Citibank entered into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) (for additional information on this consent order and the Citigroup consent order with the Federal Reserve Board, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” below).

•Citi had broad-based deposit growth across ICG and GCB, reflecting strong client engagement, as well as an elevated level of liquidity in the financial system, while loans declined reflecting lower levels of consumer and corporate activity.

•Citi returned $7.2 billion of capital to its common shareholders in the form of dividends and common share repurchases.

•The Federal Reserve Board authorized Citi to take certain capital actions during the first quarter of 2021, which allows Citi to return capital to common shareholders of up to $2.8 billion, including the previously announced common dividends of $0.51 per share in the quarter. Citi commenced share repurchases in February 2021.

•Citi continued to support its colleagues, customers, clients and communities as well as the broader economy during this challenging time (see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” below), while maintaining a strong balance sheet.

The economic outlook for 2021 reflects continued challenges and uncertainties related to the pandemic, including, among others, the duration and severity of the public health crisis and associated economic impacts, which have created a more volatile operating environment that will continue to negatively impact Citi’s businesses and results. 

As a result of new information Citi received subsequent to December 31, 2020, Citi adjusted downward its fourth quarter 

of 2020 financial results from those previously reported on January 15, 2021 (and filed on a Form 8-K with the SEC on such date), due to a $390 million increase in operating expenses ($323 million after-tax) recorded within ICG, resulting from operational losses related to certain legal matters. For additional information on the impact to fourth quarter of 2020 financial results, see Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Citi’s results of operations and financial condition for the full year 2020, as reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, reflect the impact of this adjustment. 

For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that will or could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition during 2021, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview,” “Risk Factors,” each respective business’s results of operations and “Managing Global Risk” below. 

2020 Results Summary

Citigroup

Citigroup reported net income of $11.0 billion, or $4.72 per share, compared to net income of $19.4 billion, or $8.04 per share, in the prior year. Net income declined 43%, driven by significantly higher credit costs and higher expenses, while revenues remained largely unchanged. Earnings per share decreased 41%, primarily driven by the decline in net income. 

Citigroup revenues of $74.3 billion were largely unchanged from the prior year, as higher revenues in ICG offset lower revenues in GCB and Corporate/Other.

Citigroup’s end-of-period loans decreased 3% from the prior year to $676 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (FX translation), Citigroup’s end-of-period loans declined 4%, driven by a 4% aggregate decline in GCB and ICG, reflecting lower spend activity in GCB as well as a higher level of repayments in both GCB and ICG. Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits increased 20% to $1.3 trillion. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits increased 19%, primarily driven by 18% growth in GCB and 19% growth in ICG. (Citi’s results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations and financial condition excluding the impact of FX translation provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its businesses for investors, industry analysts and others.)

Expenses

Citigroup operating expenses of $43.2 billion increased 3% versus the prior year, primarily driven by investments in Citi’s transformation, including infrastructure supporting its risk and control environment, higher compensation, the civil money penalty, operational losses related to certain legal matters and pandemic-related expenses, partially offset by efficiency savings and reductions in marketing and other discretionary spending. Operating expenses in GCB declined 2%, while ICG 

6

expenses increased 6% and Corporate/Other expenses increased 16%.

Cost of Credit

Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims of $17.5 billion increased significantly from $8.4 billion in the prior year, reflecting ACL reserve increases across GCB, ICG and Corporate/Other. Citi’s ACL build of $9.8 billion was largely driven by builds during the first half of 2020. The reserve build in 2020 primarily reflected the impact of a deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook under the CECL standard and downgrades in the corporate loan portfolio, partially offset by lower loan volumes in GCB, all driven by the pandemic. The reserve build included an additional qualitative management adjustment to reflect the potential for a higher level of stress and a slower economic recovery. For further information on the drivers of Citi’s ACL build, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Allowance for Credit Losses” below. For information on the transition impact of the adoption of the CECL standard, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” below.

Net credit losses of $7.6 billion declined 2% from the prior year. Consumer net credit losses of $6.6 billion decreased 10%, primarily reflecting lower loan volumes given lower spending activity and higher payment rates, as well as the benefits of consumer relief programs (see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” below). Corporate net credit losses increased from $392 million to $1.0 billion, primarily driven by write-offs across various sectors, which were partially offset by the release of previously established ACL reserves. 

For additional information on Citi’s consumer and corporate credit costs and ACL, see each respective business’s results of operations and “Credit Risk” below.

Capital

Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 11.7% as of December 31, 2020, based on the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework for determining risk-weighted assets, compared to 11.8% as of December 31, 2019, based on the Basel III Standardized Approach for determining risk-weighted assets. The decline in the ratio primarily reflected an increase in risk-weighted assets and the return of capital to common shareholders, partially offset by net income and beneficial net movements in Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). 

Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 7.0% as of December 31, 2020, compared to 6.2% as of December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by a decrease in Total Leverage Exposure, reflecting the benefit of temporary relief granted by the Federal Reserve Board. For additional information on Citi’s capital ratios and related components, see “Capital Resources” below.

Global Consumer Banking

GCB net income of $878 million declined 85% from the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation, net income declined 84%, reflecting lower revenues and higher cost of credit, partially offset by lower expenses. GCB operating expenses of $17.2 billion decreased 2%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, expenses decreased 1%, as lower volume-

related expenses, reductions in marketing and other discretionary spending and efficiency savings were partially offset by increases in pandemic-related expenses and higher repositioning costs. 

GCB revenues of $30.0 billion decreased 9%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues decreased 8%, as strong deposit growth and momentum in wealth management were more than offset by lower card volumes and lower interest rates across all regions, reflecting the impact of the pandemic. 

North America GCB revenues of $19.1 billion decreased 6%, with lower revenues across Citi-branded cards, Citi retail services and retail banking. Citi-branded cards revenues of $8.8 billion decreased 4%, reflecting lower purchase sales and higher payment rates driving lower average loans. Citi retail services revenues of $5.9 billion decreased 12%, reflecting lower average loans as well as higher partner payments. Retail banking revenues of $4.5 billion decreased 2%, as the benefit of stronger deposit volumes and an improvement in mortgage revenues were more than offset by lower deposit spreads.

North America GCB average deposits of $176 billion increased 15% year-over-year, average retail banking loans of $52 billion increased 8% year-over-year and assets under management of $80 billion increased 11%. Average Citi-branded cards loans of $85 billion decreased 6% and Citi-branded cards purchase sales of $338 billion decreased 8%, while average Citi retail services loans of $47 billion decreased 7% and Citi retail services purchase sales of $78 billion decreased 11%. The decline in Citi-branded cards and

retail services loans and purchase sales were all driven by

reduced customer activity related to the pandemic. For additional information on the results of operations of North America GCB in 2020, see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” below.

International GCB revenues (consisting of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB (which includes the results of operations in certain EMEA countries)) of $10.8 billion declined 14% versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB revenues declined 10%, largely reflecting the impact of the pandemic. On this basis, Latin America GCB revenues decreased 8%, driven by lower average loans and lower interest rates, partially offset by strong deposit growth. Asia GCB revenues decreased 11%, as lower card revenues and the impact of lower interest rates were partially offset by strong investment revenues and strong deposit growth. For additional information on the results of operations of Latin America GCB and Asia GCB in 2020, including the impact of FX translation, see “Global Consumer Banking—Latin America GCB” and “Global Consumer Banking—Asia GCB” below.

Year-over-year, excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB average deposits of $135 billion increased 11%, average retail banking loans of $72 billion increased 3% and assets under management of $141 billion increased 8%. On this basis, international GCB average card loans of $22 billion decreased 8% and card purchase sales of $88 billion decreased 16%, both driven by reduced customer activity related to the pandemic.

7

Institutional Clients Group

ICG net income of $11.7 billion decreased 9%, as revenue growth was more than offset by higher cost of credit and higher expenses. ICG operating expenses increased 6% to $23.5 billion, largely driven by investments in infrastructure and risk management and controls, higher compensation costs, operational losses related to certain legal matters and volume-driven growth, partially offset by efficiency savings.

ICG revenues of $44.3 billion increased 13%, reflecting a 29% increase in Markets and securities services revenues, partially offset by a 1% decline in Banking revenues. The decrease in Banking revenues included the impact of $51 million of losses on loan hedges related to corporate lending and the private bank, compared to losses of $432 million related to corporate lending in the prior year.

Banking revenues of $21.2 billion (excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges) decreased 3%, as increases in investment banking and the private bank were more than offset by declines in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Investment banking revenues of $5.8 billion increased 11%, reflecting solid growth in capital markets, particularly in equity underwriting. Advisory revenues decreased 20% to $1.0 billion, while equity underwriting revenues increased 64% to $1.6 billion and debt underwriting revenues increased 7% to $3.2 billion.

Treasury and trade solutions revenues of $9.5 billion declined 7%, and 5% excluding the impact of FX translation, as strong client engagement and growth in deposits were more than offset by lower interest rates and reduced commercial card spend largely driven by the pandemic. Private bank revenues of $3.8 billion increased 9%. Excluding the impact of gains on loan hedges, private bank revenues of $3.7 billion, increased 8%, driven by increased capital markets activity and improved managed investments revenues, as well as higher lending and deposit volumes, partially offset by lower deposit spreads. Corporate lending revenues of $2.1 billion declined 15%. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, corporate lending revenues of $2.2 billion declined 25%, as higher average loan volumes were more than offset by lower spreads, higher hedging costs and an adjustment to the residual value of a lease financing asset.

Markets and securities services revenues of $23.1 billion increased 29%. Fixed income markets revenues of $17.3 billion increased 34%, reflecting strength in rates and currencies, spread products and commodities. Equity markets revenues of $3.6 billion increased 25%, as solid performance in cash equities and derivatives was partially offset by lower revenues in prime finance. Securities services revenues of $2.5 billion decreased 3%, and 1% excluding the impact of FX translation, as higher deposit volumes were more than offset by lower spreads. For additional information on the results of operations of ICG in 2020, see “Institutional Clients Group” below.

Corporate/Other

Corporate/Other net loss was $1.6 billion, compared to net income of $801 million in the prior year, reflecting lower revenues, increased expenses, higher cost of credit, driven by an ACL build on Citi’s residual legacy portfolio under the CECL standard, and lower tax benefits. Operating expenses of 

$2.5 billion increased significantly, as the wind-down of legacy assets was more than offset by investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls, the civil money penalty and incremental costs associated with the pandemic. 

Corporate/Other revenues of $54 million compared to $2.0 billion in the prior year, reflecting the impact of lower interest rates, episodic gains in the prior year, the wind-down of legacy assets and marks on securities. For additional information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other in 2020, see “Corporate/Other” below.

CITI’S CONSENT ORDER COMPLIANCE

As previously disclosed, Citi is embarking on a multiyear transformation, with the target outcome to change Citi’s business and operating models such that they simultaneously strengthen risk and controls and improve Citi’s value to customers, clients and shareholders. 

One part of the broader transformation effort involves Citi’s compliance with the Federal Reserve Board and OCC consent orders issued with Citigroup and Citibank, respectively, in October 2020. The consent orders require that Citigroup and Citibank submit acceptable plans to the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC, on various timelines, relating principally to various aspects of risk management, compliance, data quality management and governance, and internal controls. The consent order with the OCC also required Citibank to pay a $400 million civil money penalty. As a part of its compliance actions, Citi has centralized its program management under the leadership of a Chief Administrative Officer organization and is making the strengthening of its risk and control environment a further strategic priority for the Company. The Citigroup and Citibank Boards of Directors each formed a Transformation Oversight Committee, an ad hoc committee of each Board, to provide oversight of management’s remediation efforts under the consent orders.

For additional information about the consent orders, see “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” below and Citi’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 7, 2020. 

8

COVID-19 PANDEMIC OVERVIEW

In addition to the widespread public health implications, the COVID-19 pandemic has had an extraordinary impact on macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and around the world. As discussed below and elsewhere throughout this Form 10-K, Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition have been impacted by economic dislocations and trends caused by the pandemic. Citi had builds to its allowance for credit losses (ACL) of approximately $9.8 billion during 2020, bringing its total ACL to approximately $27.8 billion at December 31, 2020, with an allowance for credit losses on loans (ACLL) reserve ratio of 3.73% on funded loans. For additional information, see “Impact of CECL on Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses” below.

Despite these impacts, Citi has maintained strong capital and liquidity positions with consistently strong business operations. At December 31, 2020, Citi had a Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio of 11.7%, a Supplementary Leverage ratio of 7.0% and a Liquidity Coverage ratio of 118%, each well above regulatory minimums, with approximately $972 billion of available liquidity resources (see “Capital Resources” and “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below). 

Governments and central banks globally have taken a series of aggressive actions to support their economies and mitigate the systemic impacts of the pandemic, and Citi continues to proactively assess and utilize these measures where appropriate.

Citi’s COVID-19 Pandemic Response—Supporting Colleagues, Customers and Communities

The health and safety of Citi’s employees and their families, as well as Citi’s customers, clients and the communities it serves, are of the utmost importance. As the public health crisis has unfolded, Citi has continued to take proactive measures to support colleagues’ well-being while maintaining its ability to serve customers and clients.

Citi Colleagues

•The majority of Citi colleagues—roughly 80%—around the world are working remotely, however this varies by country.

•Citi is pursuing a slow and measured return in locations where local guidelines permit, beginning with only a small number of colleagues.

•Citi’s response teams continue to consult with health experts and follow local government guidelines in determining the safest return to office for each location. 

•Citi has reconfigured its sites and implemented new protocols to make work environments as safe as possible in offices, branches and ATMs. 

•Citi continues to provide additional health and well-being resources for colleagues, plus enhanced flexibility and paid time off for those impacted by COVID-19.

•The company continues to monitor the situation as it evolves and will review and update operations as needed.

Citi Communities

In addition to its business activities, including the consumer relief programs discussed below, Citi is supporting those immediately impacted by the pandemic through philanthropic efforts around the world. Citi and the Citi Foundation have committed more than $100 million to date in support of COVID-19-related community relief and economic recovery efforts globally. These contributions include over $4 million raised through an employee donation matching program to further global relief efforts. Additionally, Citi has donated $50 million in proceeds from its participation in the U.S. Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) to the Citi Foundation, which deployed those proceeds to support Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) across the U.S. 

Citi Consumer Loan Relief Programs

As previously disclosed, Citi was one of the first banks in the U.S. to announce temporary assistance measures for pandemic-impacted consumer customers. In addition, Citi has offered a wide array of short- and medium-term relief programs to customers across regions and products as a result of the pandemic. The relief has primarily been in the form of payment deferrals and fee waivers. These consumer relief programs have mainly been provided to GCB customers, with a small portion reported within Corporate/Other. To date, Citi has provided assistance to approximately three million U.S. consumers and small businesses impacted by the pandemic. 

In the fourth quarter of 2020, Citi experienced a decline in enrollment of approximately 21% quarter-over-quarter in its formal COVID-19 assistance programs. As a result of the significant and steady decline in enrollment, Citi ended the programs as of December 31, 2020 for the majority of countries and products. Continued COVID-19 assistance programs through Citi’s subservicer include extended mortgage payment deferrals through 2021 and suspended foreclosures into the first quarter of 2021 for U.S. mortgages. Citi remains committed to discussing assistance options with customers that continue to experience financial hardship on a case-by-case basis.

The table below provides information on the number of loan modifications, the associated enrollment and outstanding balances as of December 31, 2020, for Citi’s pandemic-related relief programs, excluding troubled debt restructurings (for additional information, see “Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR) Relief” below).

9

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Enrollment balances represent the aggregate amounts enrolled during the fourth quarter of 2020.

(2) Enrollment balances represent the aggregate amounts enrolled during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020.

(3) Total outstanding balance on loans enrolled in consumer relief programs as of December 31, 2020. Reserves for these loans are calculated in accordance with the CECL standard.

(4) The percentage denominator is the total end-of-period loans balance for the respective product and region as of December 31, 2020.

As set forth in the table above, during the fourth quarter of 2020, Citi modified approximately 0.4 million consumer loans, excluding TDRs, with associated enrollment balances of approximately $1.6 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Citi modified 5.1 million consumer loans, excluding TDRs, with associated enrollment balances of approximately $25.7 billion. As of December 31, 2020, Citi had 

approximately $3.0 billion of loan balances outstanding under the consumer loan relief programs, representing approximately 1% of Citi’s total consumer loan balance. 

As of December 31, 2020, Citi had approximately $2.2 billion of loan balances outstanding under the consumer relief programs in North America. 

10

Citi’s North America credit card programs had the largest number of loan modifications in 2020. As these credit card relief programs were introduced during the first half of 2020 and offered a deferral of minimum payments for two to four payment cycles, nearly all of the customers had rolled off the programs by year-end, of whom approximately 86% have continued to make payments. 

For customers enrolled in mortgage forbearance programs in North America, Citi’s subservicer offered payment deferrals and suspended foreclosures, and by the end of 2020, approximately 63% of mortgage customers had rolled off the program, of whom approximately 72% have continued to make payments. As of December 31, 2020, Citi had approximately $1.3 billion of mortgage loan balances outstanding under the programs. 

As of December 31, 2020, Citi had approximately $0.8 billion of loan balances outstanding under Asia consumer relief programs. In Asia, approximately 96% of customers had rolled off the consumer relief programs as of December 31, 2020, of whom approximately 83% have continued to make payments. 

As of December 31, 2020, Citi had no loan balances outstanding under the Latin America consumer relief programs, as all the customers had rolled off the programs, of whom approximately 78% have continued to make payments. 

Citi Corporate Loan Relief Programs

Citi has modified the contractual terms of corporate loans to certain borrowers impacted by the pandemic, primarily commercial banking (small business) and private bank customers. These modifications consist primarily of deferrals in the payment of principal and/or interest that Citi has provided during 2020 in response to borrower requests, as well as those provided pursuant to government-mandated relief programs. 

The table below summarizes Citi’s outstanding active loan modifications, excluding TDRs as of December 31, 2020. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Citi’s Management of COVID-19 Pandemic Risks

Citi has responded on multiple fronts to the challenges of the pandemic to support the ongoing needs of its customers and clients, while concurrently maintaining safety and soundness standards.

Citi’s dedicated continuity of business and crisis management groups are managing Citi’s protocols in response to the pandemic. These protocols provide for the safety and well-being of Citi’s staff, while continuing to maintain high levels of client servicing across all of the markets in which Citi operates. These protocols address the prioritization of critical processing; ability of staff and third parties to support these processes from remote work locations; deployment of new hardware to support technology needs; and ongoing monitoring to assess controls and service levels. Planning for Citi’s return-to-office strategy is ongoing.

Citi’s organizational response to the pandemic has been governed by Citi’s Executive Management Team, consisting of the Citigroup CEO and certain direct reports of the CEO, and driven through regional task forces that were deployed in Asia, EMEA, North America and Latin America. Led by regional CEOs and their management teams, these groups focused on, and continue to manage, the pandemic responses, implementation of continuity of business plans, locational and staffing strategies and responses to customer and client needs.

Throughout the crisis, Citi has also worked closely with U.S. authorities and host governments on implementing immediate policy responses and financial assistance structures to mitigate the systemic impacts of the pandemic. Citi also continues to engage closely with customers and clients, regulators and other relevant stakeholders to assure alignment on all pandemic-related matters.

11

Citi’s Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)

The table below shows the impact of Citi’s adoption of the current expected credit loss (CECL) standard as of January 1, 2020 and the ACL builds (releases) during 2020. For information on the drivers of Citi’s ACL release in the fourth quarter, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Allowance for Credit Losses” below. For additional information on Citi’s accounting policy on accounting for credit losses under CECL, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) As of December 31, 2020, in North America GCB, Citi-branded cards ACLL/EOP loans was 10.0% and Citi retail services ACLL/EOP loans was 13.6%. 

Certain Key Government Actions in Support of the Economy

U.S. Government-Sponsored Liquidity Programs

During the first quarter of 2020, the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) introduced several liquidity facilities in response to the funding market volatility caused by the pandemic. Citi has participated in several of the U.S. government-sponsored liquidity programs, including the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility (MMLF), the Primary Dealer Credit Facility (PDCF) and Discount Window (DW) in order to facilitate client activity and support the FRB actions to provide additional liquidity into the market. Citi has also participated in the Paycheck Protection Program Lending Facility (PPPLF), which was established to facilitate lending under the Small Business Administration’s (SBA’s) Paycheck Protection Program (see “Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program” below). The amounts Citi sourced from these facilities were not significant to Citi’s overall liquidity profile during 2020, which remains strong and highly liquid. 

For additional information about Citi’s liquidity resources, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below.

U.S. Banking Agencies Regulatory Capital Relief 

In response to the pandemic, throughout 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued several final rules and interim final rules revising the current regulatory capital standards, to provide banking organizations with additional flexibility to support consumers and businesses. Those rules applicable to Citi include:

•Easing of capital distribution limits in the event of regulatory capital buffer breaches, which provides some flexibility to continue distributing capital under certain circumstances.

•Modification of the CECL transition provision to defer the January 1, 2020 capital impact to January 1, 2022 and to provide additional capital relief for ongoing increases in credit reserves. Citi’s reported Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio at December 31, 2020, reflecting the modified CECL transition provision, was 39 basis points 

12

higher than Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio, reflecting the full impact of CECL on regulatory capital. Excluding the modified CECL transition provision, Citigroup’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio would have been 11.34%, compared with a 10.0% effective minimum requirement.

•Temporary Supplementary Leverage ratio (SLR) relief for bank holding companies, commencing in the second quarter of 2020, allowing Citigroup to temporarily expand its balance sheet by excluding U.S. Treasury securities and deposits with the FRB from the SLR denominator. Citigroup’s reported Supplementary Leverage ratio of 7.00% benefited by 109 basis points during the fourth quarter of 2020 as a result of the temporary relief. Excluding the temporary relief, Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio would have been 5.91%, compared with a 5.0% effective minimum requirement.

•Assigning a 0% risk weight to loans originated under the Paycheck Protection Program.

For additional information about regulatory capital relief provided by the U.S. banking agencies, see “Capital Resources” below.

Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR) Relief

Under U.S. GAAP, banks are required to assess modifications to a loan’s terms for potential classification as a TDR. A loan to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty is classified as a TDR when a lender grants a concession that it would otherwise not consider, such as a payment deferral or interest concession. 

In order to encourage banks to work with impacted borrowers, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) and U.S. banking agencies have provided relief from TDR accounting. The main benefits of TDR relief include a capital benefit in the form of reduced risk-weighted assets, as TDRs are more heavily risk-weighted for capital purposes; aging of the loans is frozen, i.e., they will continue to be reported in the same delinquency bucket they were in at the time of modification; and the loans are generally not reported as non-accrual during the modification period. The loans included in Citi’s pandemic-related consumer relief programs are included in Citi’s reserving process under the CECL standard. 

Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program

The Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) authorizes the origination of forgivable loans for small businesses to pay their employees during the pandemic. Loan terms are the same for all businesses. During the first round of PPP, which was launched in April 2020, Citi funded over 30,000 loans totaling $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2020, with approximately $3.4 billion outstanding at December 31, 2020. The processing of loan forgiveness requests under PPP began during the third quarter of 2020 and Citi received approximately $314 million of funds from the SBA relating to forgiveness in the fourth quarter of 2020. Citi is currently participating in the relaunch of PPP and remains committed to supporting small businesses.

Pandemic and Other Impacts

In 2021, Citi expects overall revenues to decline from 2020, largely driven by normalization in the ICG markets businesses. In addition, GCB, ICG and Corporate/Other revenues will likely continue to be adversely impacted by the lower global interest rate environment, and GCB and ICG revenues will be affected by the challenges and uncertainties in the macroeconomic and market environment, including as a result of the continued severity and duration of the pandemic. Each GCB region is also expected to continue to experience the adverse impacts the pandemic has had on customer activity, while Latin America GCB is also likely to continue to experience an impact from macroeconomic weakness in Mexico. 

Citi also expects to incur higher expenses, as it continues to accelerate the transformation of its infrastructure, risk management and controls, including its efforts to improve the risk and control environment, as well as to comply with the consent orders (see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above).

Moreover, based on its existing portfolios as of December 31, 2020, Citi expects to experience higher net credit losses, which will vary by business and region and be dependent on future macroeconomic conditions. Citi believes that these losses are adequately reserved for under the CECL standard at December 31, 2020. Citi expects international consumer losses to peak during the first half of 2021, while in the U.S., losses could begin to rise in 2021 but peak afterward. If Citi’s fourth quarter of 2020 macroeconomic forecast assumptions are realized, Citi would not expect additional reserve builds on its existing portfolios (for additional information, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below); however, the overall level of reserves remains dependent on the evolving economic and public health environments relative to this forecast, as well as new lending volumes. 

For additional information about material risks to Citi from the pandemic and other macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties, see “Risk Factors” below.

13

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table continues on the next page, including footnotes.

14

SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(Continued) 

Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) 2017 includes the one-time impact related to enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform). 2020, 2019 and 2018 reflect the tax rate structure post Tax Reform. RoTCE for 2017 excludes the one-time impact from Tax Reform and is a non-GAAP financial measure. For additional information, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below. 

(2) The return on average common stockholders’ equity is calculated using net income less preferred stock dividends divided by average common stockholders’ equity. The return on average total Citigroup stockholders’ equity is calculated using net income divided by average Citigroup stockholders’ equity.

(3) RoTCE and TBV are non-GAAP financial measures. For information on RoTCE and TBV, see “Capital Resources—Tangible Common Equity, Book Value Per Share, Tangible Book Value Per Share and Returns on Equity” below.

(4) Citi’s risk-based capital and leverage ratios for 2017 and 2016 are non-GAAP financial measures, which reflect full implementation of regulatory capital adjustments and deductions prior to the effective date of January 1, 2018.

(5) Citi’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital as of December 31, 2020 were derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches frameworks, whereas Citi’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were the lower derived under the Basel III Standardized Approach and the reportable Total Capital ratio was the lower derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.

(6) Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of net income per diluted share.

(7) Total common dividends declared plus common share repurchases as a percentage of net income available to common shareholders (Net income, less preferred dividends). See “Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity,” Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Equity Security Repurchases” below for the component details. 

NM Not meaningful

15

SEGMENT AND BUSINESS—INCOME (LOSS) AND REVENUES

CITIGROUP INCOME

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries. 

NM Not meaningful

CITIGROUP REVENUES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries.

16

SEGMENT BALANCE SHEET(1)—DECEMBER 31, 2020

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The supplemental information presented in the table above reflects Citigroup’s consolidated GAAP balance sheet by reporting segment. The respective segment information depicts the assets and liabilities managed by each segment. 

(2)Consolidating eliminations for total Citigroup and Citigroup parent company assets and liabilities are recorded within Corporate/Other. 

(3)Total stockholders’ equity and the majority of long-term debt of Citigroup are reflected on the Citigroup parent company balance sheet. Citigroup allocates stockholders’ equity and long-term debt to its businesses through inter-segment allocations as shown above.

(4)Represents the attribution of Citigroup’s liquid assets (primarily consisting of cash, marketable equity securities and available-for-sale debt securities) to the various businesses based on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) assumptions.

(5)Corporate/Other equity represents noncontrolling interests.

17

GLOBAL CONSUMER BANKING

Global Consumer Banking (GCB) consists of consumer banking businesses in North America, Latin America (consisting of Citi’s consumer banking business in Mexico) and Asia. GCB provides traditional banking services to retail customers through retail banking, Citi-branded cards and, in the U.S., Citi retail services (for additional information on these businesses, see “Citigroup Segments” above). GCB is focused on its priority markets in the U.S., Mexico and Asia, with 2,303 branches in 19 countries and jurisdictions as of December 31, 2020. At December 31, 2020, GCB had $434 billion in assets and $344.5 billion in retail banking deposits.

 GCB’s strategy is to leverage its global footprint and digital capabilities to develop multi-product relationships with customers—both in and out of Citi’s branch footprint. To achieve this, GCB strives to optimize its clients’ experiences across lending, payments and wealth management through continued digitization, new partnerships and innovation.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table continues on the next page, including footnotes.

18

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes both Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services.

(2)Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the 2020 average exchange rates for all periods presented.

(3)Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure.

NM Not meaningful

19

NORTH AMERICA GCB

North America GCB provides traditional retail banking and Citi-branded and Citi retail services card products to retail and small business customers in the U.S. North America GCB’s U.S. cards product portfolio includes its proprietary portfolio (including the Citi Double Cash, Thank You and Value cards) and co-branded cards (including, among others, American Airlines and Costco) within Citi-branded cards, as well as its co-brand and private label relationships (including, among others, Sears, The Home Depot, Best Buy and Macy’s) within Citi retail services.

At December 31, 2020, North America GCB had 687 retail bank branches concentrated in the six key metropolitan areas of New York, Chicago, Miami, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles and San Francisco. Also as of December 31, 2020, North America GCB had $52.7 billion in retail banking loans and $194.8 billion in retail banking deposits. In addition, North America GCB had $130.4 billion in outstanding card loan balances.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)2018 includes an approximate $150 million gain on the Hilton portfolio sale. 

NM Not meaningful

20

2020 vs. 2019 

Net income decreased 98%, as significantly higher cost of credit and lower revenues were partially offset by lower expenses.

Revenues decreased 6%, reflecting lower revenues in Citi retail services, Citi-branded cards and retail banking, primarily due to the pandemic, including lower interest rates.

Retail banking revenues decreased 2%, as the benefit of stronger deposit volumes and an improvement in mortgage revenues were more than offset by lower deposit spreads, reflecting lower interest rates. 

Average deposits increased 15%, driven by a combination of factors, including government stimulus payments, a reduction in overall consumer spending related to the pandemic and strategic efforts to drive organic growth, including digital deposits which drove more than one-third of the year-over-year growth. 

Cards revenues decreased 7%. Citi-branded cards revenues decreased 4%, reflecting lower purchase sales and higher payment rates driving lower average loans. Average loans decreased 6% and purchase sales decreased 8%, both reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity. 

Citi retail services revenues decreased 12%, primarily reflecting lower average loans and higher contractual partner payments. (For additional information on partner payments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) Average loans were down 7% and purchase sales declined 11%, both reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity.

Expenses decreased 2%, as lower volume-related expenses, reductions in marketing and other discretionary expenses, as well as efficiency savings, more than offset higher pandemic-related expenses.

Provisions of $9.1 billion increased 50% from the prior year, driven by a higher allowance for credit losses (ACL) build, partially offset by lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 11%, primarily driven by lower net credit losses in Citi retail services (down 16% to $2.2 billion) and Citi-branded cards (down 5% to $2.7 billion), primarily reflecting lower loan volumes as well as higher payment rates given high levels of liquidity, lower spending and the benefits of relief programs. 

The ACL build of $4.1 billion (compared to a build of

$470 million in the prior year under prior accounting

standards) was driven by builds during the first half of 2020. The builds reflected the impact of a deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook under the CECL standard, including an increase in the qualitative management adjustment to reflect the potential for a higher level of stress and a slower economic recovery, partially offset by lower loan volumes, both primarily driven by the pandemic. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For additional information on North America GCB’s retail banking, and its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to North America GCB’s future results, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” above and “Risk Factors” below.

21

LATIN AMERICA GCB

Latin America GCB provides traditional retail banking and Citi-branded card products to retail and small business customers in Mexico through Citibanamex, one of Mexico’s largest banks. 

At December 31, 2020, Latin America GCB had 1,392 retail branches in Mexico, with $9.8 billion in retail banking loans and $25.8 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had $4.8 billion in outstanding card loan balances.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)2018 includes an approximate $250 million gain on the sale of an asset management business. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the 2020 average exchange rates for all periods presented.

(3)Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure.

NM Not meaningful

22

The discussion of the results of operations for Latin America GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.

2020 vs. 2019 

Net income decreased 66%, reflecting lower revenues, higher cost of credit and higher expenses.

Revenues decreased 8%, reflecting lower retail banking and cards revenues, largely due to the pandemic, including lower interest rates. Revenues also decreased due to the ongoing slowdown in overall economic growth and industry volumes in Mexico.

Retail banking revenues decreased 8%, driven by a decline in loan volumes and lower deposit spreads, partially offset by deposit growth and an increase in assets under management. Average deposits were up 10%, while average loans decreased 5%, reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity, as well as the ongoing economic slowdown. Assets under management increased 12%, including the benefit of market movements.

Cards revenues decreased 10%, primarily driven by lower purchase sales (down 17%) and lower average loans (down 8%), reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity and the ongoing economic slowdown.

Expenses increased 4%, as efficiency savings were more than offset by repositioning costs, pandemic-related expenses, and ongoing investment spending.

Provisions of $1.3 billion increased 26% from the prior year, driven by a higher allowance for credit losses (ACL) build, partially offset by lower net credit losses. Net credit losses decreased 14%, primarily driven by lower average loans and the impact of consumer relief programs. 

The ACL build of $316 million (compared to a net reserve release of $35 million in the prior year under prior accounting standards) was driven by builds during the first half of 2020. The builds reflected the impact of a deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook under the CECL standard, including an increase in the qualitative management adjustment to reflect the potential for a higher level of stress and a slower economic recovery, partially offset by lower loan volumes, both primarily driven by the pandemic. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For additional information on Latin America GCB’s retail banking and its Citi-branded cards portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Latin America GCB’s future results, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” above and “Risk Factors” below.

23

ASIA GCB

Asia GCB provides traditional retail banking and Citi-branded card products to retail and small business customers. During 2020, Asia GCB’s most significant revenues in Asia were from Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, India, Australia, Thailand, the Philippines, China and Indonesia. Included within Asia GCB, traditional retail banking and Citi-branded card products are also provided to retail customers in certain EMEA countries, primarily the United Arab Emirates, Poland and Russia. 

At December 31, 2020, on a combined basis, the businesses had 224 retail branches, $66.5 billion in retail banking loans and $123.9 billion in deposits. In addition, the businesses had $17.9 billion in outstanding card loan balances. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Asia GCB includes the results of operations of GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

24

(2) Reflects the impact of FX translation into U.S. dollars at the 2020 average exchange rates for all periods presented.

(3) Presentation of this metric excluding FX translation is a non-GAAP financial measure.

NM Not meaningful

The discussion of the results of operations for Asia GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.

2020 vs. 2019

Net income decreased 66%, as lower revenues and significantly higher cost of credit were partially offset by lower expenses.

Revenues decreased 11%, reflecting lower cards and retail banking revenues, largely due to the pandemic, including lower interest rates.

Retail banking revenues decreased 3%, as growth in deposits and higher fees on investments and foreign currency transactions due to higher volumes and volatility were more than offset by lower deposit spreads and lower insurance revenues. Average deposits increased 11% and average loans increased 5%. Assets under management increased 5% and investment sales increased 43%. Retail lending revenues increased 4%, largely reflecting growth in mortgages and personal loans, partially offset by spread compression in personal loans.

Cards revenues decreased 24%, primarily driven by lower purchase sales (down 16%) and lower average loans (down 8%), reflecting the impact of the pandemic on customer activity, including from lower travel spend in the region given Citi’s skew to an affluent client base and a greater proportion of fee revenues coming from travel-related interchange and foreign transaction fees.

Expenses decreased 1%, as lower discretionary expenses and volume-related costs, as well as efficiency savings, were partially offset by ongoing investment spending.

Provisions of $1.3 billion increased 90%, driven by a higher allowance for credit losses (ACL) build as well as higher net credit losses. Net credit losses increased 16%, as pandemic lockdowns and the deterioration in the macro-environment impacted credit performance. 

The ACL build of $520 million (compared to a build of $7 million in the prior year under prior accounting standards) was driven by builds during the first three quarters of 2020. The builds reflected the impact of a deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook under the CECL standard, including an increase in the qualitative management adjustment to reflect the potential for a higher level of stress and a slower economic recovery, partially offset by lower loan volumes, both primarily driven by the pandemic. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

For additional information on Asia GCB’s retail banking portfolios and its Citi-branded cards portfolios, see “Credit Risk—Consumer Credit” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Asia GCB’s future results, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” above and “Risk Factors” below.

25

INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUP

Institutional Clients Group (ICG) includes Banking and Markets and securities services (for additional information on these businesses, see “Citigroup Segments” above). ICG provides corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients around the world with a full range of wholesale banking products and services, including fixed income and equity sales and trading, foreign exchange, prime brokerage, derivative services, equity and fixed income research, corporate lending, investment banking and advisory services, private banking, cash management, trade finance and securities services. ICG transacts with clients in both cash instruments and derivatives, including fixed income, foreign currency, equity and commodity products.

ICG revenue is generated primarily from fees and spreads associated with these activities. ICG earns fee income for assisting clients with transactional services and clearing and providing brokerage and investment banking services and other such activities. Such fees are recognized at the point in time when Citigroup’s performance under the terms of a contractual arrangement is completed, which is typically at the trade/execution date or closing of a transaction. Revenue generated from these activities is recorded in Commissions and fees and Investment banking. Revenue is also generated from assets under custody and administration, which is recognized as/when the associated promised service is satisfied, which normally occurs at the point in time the service is requested by the customer and provided by Citi. Revenue generated from these activities is primarily recorded in Administration and other fiduciary fees. For additional information on these various types of revenues, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In addition, as a market maker, ICG facilitates transactions, including holding product inventory to meet client demand, and earns the differential between the price at which it buys and sells the products. These price differentials and the unrealized gains and losses on the inventory are recorded in Principal transactions. Mark-to-market gains and losses on certain credit derivatives (used to hedge the corporate loan portfolio) are also recorded in Principal transactions, (for additional information on Principal transactions revenue, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Other primarily includes realized gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities, gains and losses on equity securities not held in trading accounts and other non-recurring gains and losses. Interest income earned on assets held, less interest paid on long- and short-term debt and to customers on deposits, is recorded as Net interest revenue.

The amount and types of Markets revenues are impacted by a variety of interrelated factors, including market liquidity; changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads, as well as their implied volatilities; investor confidence and other macroeconomic conditions. Assuming all other market conditions do not change, increases in client activity levels or bid/offer spreads generally result in increases in revenues. However, changes in market conditions can significantly impact client activity levels, bid/offer spreads and the fair value of product inventory. For example, a decrease in 

market liquidity may increase bid/offer spreads, decrease client activity levels and widen credit spreads on product inventory positions. 

ICG’s management of the Markets businesses involves daily monitoring and evaluation of the above factors at the trading desk as well as the country level. ICG does not separately track the impact on total Markets revenues of the volume of transactions, bid/offer spreads, fair value changes of product inventory positions and economic hedges because, as noted above, these components are interrelated and are not deemed useful or necessary to manage the Markets businesses at an aggregate level.

In the Markets businesses, client revenues are those revenues directly attributable to client transactions at the time of inception, including commissions, interest or fees earned. Client revenues do not include the results of client facilitation activities (e.g., holding product inventory in anticipation of client demand) or the results of certain economic hedging activities.

ICG’s international presence is supported by trading floors in approximately 80 countries and a proprietary network in 96 countries and jurisdictions. At December 31, 2020, ICG had $1.7 trillion in assets and $924 billion in deposits, while two of its businesses—securities services and issuer services—managed $24.0 trillion and $20.3 trillion in assets under custody as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. For additional information on these operations, see “Administration and Other Fiduciary Fees” in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) 2019 includes an approximate $350 million gain on Citi’s investment in Tradeweb. 

NM Not meaningful

27

ICG Revenue Details

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Credit derivatives are used to economically hedge a portion of the private bank and corporate loan portfolio that includes both accrual loans and loans at fair value. Gains (losses) on loan hedges include the mark-to-market on the credit derivatives and the mark-to-market on the loans in the portfolio that are at fair value. The fixed premium costs of these hedges are netted against the private bank and corporate lending revenues to reflect the cost of credit protection. Gains (losses) on loan hedges include $(74) million related to the corporate loan portfolio and $23 million related to the private bank for the year ended December 31, 2020. All of gains (losses) on loan hedges are related to the corporate loan portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Citigroup’s results of operations excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges are non-GAAP financial measures.

(2) 2019 includes an approximate $350 million gain on Citi’s investment in Tradeweb. 

(3) Excludes principal transactions revenues of ICG businesses other than Markets, primarily treasury and trade solutions and the private bank.

(4) Citi assesses its Markets business performance on a total revenue basis, as offsets may occur across revenue line items. For example, securities that generate Net interest revenue may be risk managed by derivatives that are recorded in Principal transactions revenue. For a description of the composition of these revenue line items, see Notes 4, 5 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

NM Not meaningful

28

The discussion of the results of operations for ICG below excludes (where noted) the impact of gains (losses) on hedges of accrual loans, which are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.

2020 vs. 2019

Net income decreased 9%, as higher revenues were more than offset by significantly higher credit costs and higher expenses.

Revenues increased 13%, driven by a 29% increase in Markets and securities services revenues, partially offset by a 1% decrease in Banking revenues (including the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges). Excluding the impact of gains (losses) on loan hedges, Banking revenues declined 3%, as growth in investment banking and the private bank was more than offset by a decrease in treasury and trade solutions and corporate lending. Excluding the pretax gain of approximately $350 million on Citi’s investment in Tradeweb in the prior year, Markets and securities services revenues increased 32%, primarily driven by growth in both fixed income markets and equity markets, partially offset by a decline in securities services.

Within Banking:

•Investment banking revenues were up 11%, reflecting growth in overall market wallet as well as gains in wallet share. Advisory revenues decreased 20%, primarily reflecting a decline in the market wallet largely due to the pandemic and a decline in wallet share. Equity underwriting revenues increased 64%, reflecting growth in North America, EMEA and Asia, driven by continued strength in the market wallet, reflecting improved market liquidity and investor sentiment as well as wallet share gains. Debt underwriting revenues increased 7%, reflecting particular strength in North America, partially offset by Latin America, primarily driven by an increase in the second quarter of 2020, as the business assisted clients with sourcing liquidity. The increase in revenues was largely driven by a higher market wallet in investment grade debt underwriting, as well as an increase in overall wallet share.

•Treasury and trade solutions revenues decreased 7%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues decreased 5%, primarily driven by declines in EMEA and Asia. The decline in revenues was driven by both the cash and trade businesses. In the cash business, the decline in revenues reflected lower interest rates and a slowdown in commercial cards spend driven by the pandemic, partially offset by strong deposit volumes. Average deposit balances increased 23% (22% excluding the impact of FX translation), reflecting strong client engagement and solid growth across all regions. In trade, revenues were impacted by a decline in trade fees and trade loans, reflecting a slowdown in underlying trade flows related to the pandemic, partially offset by improved trade spreads.

•Corporate lending revenues decreased 15%, including lower losses on loan hedges. Excluding the impact of losses on loan hedges, revenues decreased 25%, driven by lower loan spreads, an adjustment to the residual value of a lease financing asset and higher hedging costs, partially offset by higher average loan volumes. Average loans were up 4%, reflecting higher volumes as the business 

assisted clients with sourcing liquidity in the evolving environment, primarily in the first half of 2020. End-of-period loans declined 9% in the current year, primarily reflecting repayments, as Citi’s clients accessed the capital markets, as well as lower loan demand in the second half of 2020, given more muted economic activity. 

•Private bank revenues increased 9%. Excluding the impact of gains on loan hedges, revenues increased 8%, reflecting strength across all regions, driven by continued solid client engagement, in particular in capital markets, higher managed investments revenues and higher loan and deposit volumes, partially offset by lower deposit spreads due to the low interest rate environment.

Within Markets and securities services:

•Fixed income markets revenues increased 34%. Excluding the Tradeweb gain in the prior year, revenues increased 38%, reflecting strength across all regions, driven by strong client activity in rates and currencies, spread products and commodities, due to the impact of market conditions, including elevated volatility related to the pandemic primarily in the first half of the year, and developments related to vaccines and the U.S. elections in the second half of the year. Non-interest revenues increased, reflecting higher corporate and investor activity, given elevated volumes, spreads and volatility, primarily in the first half the year. Net interest revenues also increased, largely reflecting a change in the mix of trading positions in support of client activity, as well as lower funding costs. 

Rates and currencies revenues increased 32%, primarily driven by higher G10 rates and currencies revenues in North America and EMEA, as Citi helped corporate and investor clients reposition their portfolios in a volatile market environment driven by the pandemic largely in the first half of 2020. Spread products and other fixed income revenues increased 40%, reflecting strong client activity following robust primary issuance, particularly in flow trading, as well as a more favorable market making environment, as evidenced by spread tightening. Commodities revenues increased, reflecting a more favorable market making environment, as volatility remained elevated, particularly in gold and oil. 

•Equity markets revenues increased 25%, driven by higher revenues in cash equities and derivatives, partially offset by a modest decline in prime finance revenues. Cash equities revenues increased driven by elevated levels of client activity. Equity derivatives revenues increased, reflecting strong client activity and continued market volatility, particularly in North America. The decline in prime finance revenues was largely due to lower financing spreads. Non-interest revenues increased, primarily driven by higher principal transactions and commissions and fee revenues, due to higher client activity and a more favorable trading environment due to volatility related to the pandemic and developments 

29

related to vaccines and U.S. elections, as well as a change in the mix of trading positions in support of client activity.

•Securities services revenues decreased 3%. Excluding the impact of FX translation, revenues decreased 1%, as higher deposit volumes were more than offset by lower deposit spreads due to the low interest rate environment.

For additional information on trends in ICG’s deposits and trade loans, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk—Loans” and “—Deposits” below. 

Expenses increased 6%, reflecting investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls, higher compensation costs, operational losses related to certain legal matters and volume-driven growth, partially offset by efficiency savings. 

Provisions increased to $5.6 billion, driven by net credit losses of $987 million (compared to $394 million in the prior year), and an ACL build of $4.6 billion (compared to a modest build in the prior year under prior accounting standards). The increase in net credit losses was largely driven by write-offs across various sectors in both North America and EMEA, primarily reflecting energy and energy-related exposures. The net credit losses were partially offset by the release of previously established ACL reserves. 

The increase in the ACL build was driven by builds during the first half of 2020. The builds reflected the impact of a deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook under the CECL standard, driven by the impact of the pandemic across multiple sectors, as well as downgrades in the corporate portfolios. Sectors significantly impacted by the pandemic (including transportation; commercial real estate; energy and energy-related; and consumer retail) drove approximately half of the ACL reserve build during 2020. The reserve build also included an increase in the qualitative management adjustment to reflect the potential for a higher level of stress and a slower economic recovery. For additional information on Citi’s ACL accounting, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2020, reserves held on Citi’s balance sheet represented 1.4% of funded loans, compared to 0.7% as of December 31, 2019, including 4.4% of reserves held against the non-investment grade portion.

For additional information on ICG’s corporate credit portfolio, see “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk—Corporate Credit” below.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to ICG’s future results, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” and “Risk Factors” above.

30

CORPORATE/OTHER

Corporate/Other includes certain unallocated costs of global staff functions (including finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses and income taxes, as well as Corporate Treasury, certain North America legacy consumer loan portfolios, other legacy assets and discontinued operations (for additional information on Corporate/Other, see “Citigroup Segments” above). At December 31, 2020, Corporate/Other had $96 billion in assets.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM Not meaningful

2020 vs. 2019 

Net loss was $1.6 billion, compared to net income of $801 million in the prior year, largely driven by lower revenues, higher expenses, higher cost of credit and higher tax benefits in the prior year. The higher tax benefits in the prior year were primarily due to higher valuation allowance adjustments on Citi’s deferred tax assets. 

Revenues of $54 million decreased $2.0 billion, reflecting the impact of lower interest rates, episodic gains in the prior year, the wind-down of legacy assets and marks on securities.

Expenses increased 16%, as the wind-down of legacy assets was more than offset by investments in infrastructure, risk management and controls, the $400 million civil money penalty (for additional information, see “Executive Summary” and “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above) and incremental costs associated with the pandemic.

Provisions increased $253 million to $178 million, primarily driven by ACL builds of $199 million on legacy assets (versus a $67 million release in the prior year under prior accounting standards).

The ACL build was driven by builds during the first half of 2020 and primarily reflected the impact of a deterioration in Citi’s macroeconomic outlook under the CECL standard, primarily due to the pandemic. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and 

Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to Corporate/Other’s future results, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” above and “Risk Factors” below.

31

CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Overview

Capital is used principally to support assets in Citi’s businesses and to absorb credit, market and operational losses. Citi primarily generates capital through earnings from its operating businesses. Citi may augment its capital through issuances of common stock and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, among other issuances. Further, Citi’s capital levels may also be affected by changes in accounting and regulatory standards, as well as U.S. corporate tax laws and the impact of future events on Citi’s business results, such as changes in interest and foreign exchange rates, as well as business and asset dispositions.

During 2020, Citi returned a total of $7.2 billion of capital to common shareholders in the form of share repurchases (approximately 41 million common shares) and dividends. On March 15, 2020, Citi announced it had joined other major U.S. banks in suspending share repurchases to support clients in light of the pandemic. Citi commenced share repurchases in February 2021. For additional information, see “Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities, Repurchases of Equity Securities and Dividends—Equity Security Repurchases” below.

Capital Management

Citi’s capital management framework is designed to ensure that Citigroup and its principal subsidiaries maintain sufficient capital consistent with each entity’s respective risk profile, management targets and all applicable regulatory standards and guidelines. Citi assesses its capital adequacy against a series of internal quantitative capital goals, designed to evaluate its capital levels in expected and stressed economic environments. Underlying these internal quantitative capital goals are strategic capital considerations, centered on preserving and building financial strength. 

The Citigroup Capital Committee, with oversight from the Risk Management Committee of Citigroup’s Board of Directors, has responsibility for Citi’s aggregate capital structure, including the capital assessment and planning process, which is integrated into Citi’s capital plan. Balance sheet management, including oversight of capital adequacy, for Citigroup’s subsidiaries is governed by each entity’s Asset and Liability Committee, where applicable. 

For additional information regarding Citi’s capital planning and stress testing exercises, see “Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” below.

Current Regulatory Capital Standards

Citi is subject to regulatory capital standards issued by the Federal Reserve Board, which constitute the U.S. Basel III rules. These rules establish an integrated capital adequacy framework, encompassing both risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios.

Risk-Based Capital Ratios

The U.S. Basel III rules set forth the composition of regulatory capital (including the application of regulatory capital adjustments and deductions), as well as two comprehensive methodologies (a Standardized Approach and Advanced Approaches) for measuring total risk-weighted assets. Total risk-weighted assets under the Advanced Approaches, which are primarily models based, include credit, market and operational risk-weighted assets. The Standardized Approach generally applies prescribed supervisory risk weights to broad categories of credit risk exposures. As a result, credit risk-weighted assets calculated under the Advanced Approaches are more risk sensitive than those calculated under the Standardized Approach. Market risk-weighted assets are currently calculated on a generally consistent basis under both approaches. The Standardized Approach excludes operational risk-weighted assets.

Under the U.S. Basel III rules, both Citi and Citibank, N.A. (Citibank) are required to maintain stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios of 4.5%, 6.0% and 8.0%, respectively. Further, the U.S. Basel III rules implement the “capital floor provision” of the so-called “Collins Amendment” of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires Advanced Approaches banking organizations to calculate each of the three risk-based capital ratios (Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital) under both the U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach and the Advanced Approaches and comply with the lower of each of the resulting risk-based capital ratios.

Tier 1 Leverage Ratio

Under the U.S. Basel III rules, Citi is also required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio of 4.0%. The Tier 1 Leverage ratio, a non-risk-based measure of capital adequacy, is defined as Tier 1 Capital as a percentage of quarterly adjusted average total assets less amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital. 

32

Supplementary Leverage Ratio

Citi is also required to calculate a Supplementary Leverage ratio, which differs from the Tier 1 Leverage ratio by also including certain off-balance sheet exposures within the denominator of the ratio (Total Leverage Exposure). The Supplementary Leverage ratio represents end of period Tier 1 Capital to Total Leverage Exposure, with the latter defined as the sum of the daily average of on-balance sheet assets for the quarter and the average of certain off-balance sheet exposures calculated as of the last day of each month in the quarter, less applicable Tier 1 Capital deductions. Advanced Approaches banking organizations are required to maintain a stated minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 3.0%.

Further, U.S. GSIBs, including Citi, are subject to enhanced Supplementary Leverage ratio standards. The enhanced Supplementary Leverage ratio standards establish a 2.0% leverage buffer in addition to the stated 3.0% minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement, for a total effective minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement of 5.0%. If a U.S. GSIB fails to exceed the 5.0% effective minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement, it will be subject to increasingly onerous restrictions (depending upon the extent of the shortfall) regarding capital distributions and discretionary executive bonus payments. 

Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief

In April 2020, the Federal Reserve Board issued an interim final rule that temporarily changes the calculation of the Supplementary Leverage ratio for bank holding companies, including Citigroup, by excluding U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from Total Leverage Exposure. Repo-style transactions on U.S. Treasuries are not in scope for this relief. The Supplementary Leverage ratio is a non-risk-sensitive measure, and the temporary exclusion allows banking organizations to expand their balance sheet, as appropriate, to continue to serve as financial intermediaries and to provide credit to households and businesses during the pandemic. 

The interim final rule became effective for Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio, as well as for Citigroup’s leverage-based Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) and Long-Term Debt (LTD) requirements, beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2020, and will continue through March 31, 2021. Citigroup’s reported Supplementary Leverage ratio of 7.0% benefited 109 basis points during the fourth quarter of 2020 as a result of the temporary relief. Excluding the temporary relief, Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio would have been 5.9%, compared with a 5.0% effective minimum requirement.

In June 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued an interim final rule permitting depository institutions, including Citibank, to elect to temporarily exclude U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from Total Leverage Exposure, subject to the condition that the depository institution receive approval from its primary federal banking regulator prior to paying dividends or making certain other capital distributions while the exclusion is in effect. Citibank did not elect to temporarily exclude U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from Total Leverage 

Exposure. Accordingly, the calculation methodology of Citibank’s Supplementary Leverage ratio was unchanged.

Regulatory Capital Treatment—Modified Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses Methodology

In September 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued a final rule (substantially unchanged from a March 2020 interim final rule) that modifies the regulatory capital transition provision related to the current expected credit losses (CECL) methodology.

The final rule permits banks to delay for two years the “Day One” adverse regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology on January 1, 2020 until January 1, 2022, followed by a three-year transition to phase out the regulatory capital benefit provided by the delay.

In addition, for the ongoing impact of CECL, the agencies utilize a 25% scaling factor as an approximation of the increased reserve build under CECL compared to the previous incurred loss model and, therefore, allows banks to add back to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital an amount equal to 25% of the change in CECL-based allowances recognized through earnings in each quarter between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. Beginning January 1, 2022, the cumulative 25% change in CECL-based allowances recognized through earnings between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 will be phased in to regulatory capital at 25% per year on January 1 of each year over the three-year transition period, along with the delayed “Day One” impact.

Citigroup and Citibank have elected the modified CECL transition provision provided by the rule beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2020. Accordingly, the Day One regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology, as well as the ongoing adjustments for 25% of the change in CECL-based allowances recognized through earnings in each quarter between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021, will now commence phase-in on January 1, 2022 and will be fully reflected in Citi’s regulatory capital as of January 1, 2025.

For additional information on the U.S. banking agencies’ original regulatory capital transition provision related to the “Day One” adverse regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology, see “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Treatment—Implementation and Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) Methodology” in Citi’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Neither the September 2020 final rule nor the agencies’ prior guidance has any impact on U.S. GAAP accounting. 

33

Regulatory Capital Buffers

Citi and Citibank are required to maintain several regulatory capital buffers above stated minimum capital requirements. These capital buffers would be available to absorb losses in advance of any potential impairment of regulatory capital below the stated minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements. Any breach of the buffers to absorb losses during periods of financial or economic stress would result in restrictions on earnings distributions (e.g., dividends, share repurchases and discretionary executive bonuses), with the degree of such restrictions based upon the extent to which the buffers are breached. For additional information regarding limitations on capital distributions, see “Use of Regulatory Capital Buffers” below. 

Stress Capital Buffer

In March 2020, the Federal Reserve Board issued the final Stress Capital Buffer (SCB) rule, integrating the annual stress testing requirements with ongoing regulatory capital requirements. 

For Citigroup only, the SCB replaces the fixed 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer under the Standardized Approach, and equals the peak-to-trough Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio decline under the Supervisory Severely Adverse scenario used in the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST), plus four quarters of planned common stock dividends, subject to a floor of 2.5%. The fixed 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer will continue to apply under the Advanced Approaches. SCB-based minimum capital requirements will generally be updated once per year as part of the CCAR process. For additional information regarding CCAR and DFAST, see “Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning” below.

In August 2020, the Federal Reserve Board finalized and announced Citi’s SCB requirement of 2.5%. Accordingly, effective October 1, 2020, Citigroup is required to maintain a 10.0% effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the Standardized Approach, which is unchanged from Citi’s previous effective minimum requirement Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under the Standardized Approach inclusive of the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer. 

The Federal Reserve Board may, but is not required to, recalculate Citi’s SCB as a result of the capital plan resubmission, and has deferred such a decision through March 31, 2021. For additional information on the capital plan resubmission, which the Federal Reserve Board required for each firm subject to its capital plan rule, see “Capital Plan Resubmission and Related Limitations on Capital Distributions” below. 

The SCB applies to Citigroup only. The regulatory capital framework applicable to Citibank, including the Capital Conservation Buffer, is unchanged by the SCB final rule.

Capital Conservation Buffer and Countercyclical Capital Buffer

Citigroup is subject to a fixed 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer under the Advanced Approaches and, prior to the October 1, 2020 effective date of the SCB, under the Standardized Approach as well. Citibank is subject to the fixed 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer under both the Advanced Approaches and the Standardized Approach. 

Additionally, Advanced Approaches banking organizations, such as Citi and Citibank, are subject to a discretionary Countercyclical Capital Buffer. The Federal Reserve Board last voted to affirm the Countercyclical Capital Buffer amount at the current level of 0% in December 2020.

GSIB Surcharge

The Federal Reserve Board imposes a risk-based capital surcharge upon U.S. bank holding companies that are identified as global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIBs), including Citi. The GSIB surcharge augments the SCB, Capital Conservation Buffer and, if invoked, any Countercyclical Capital Buffer.

A U.S. bank holding company that is designated a GSIB is required, on an annual basis, to calculate a surcharge using two methods and is subject to the higher of the resulting two surcharges. The first method (“method 1”) is based on the Basel Committee’s GSIB methodology. Under the second method (“method 2”), the substitutability category under the Basel Committee’s GSIB methodology is replaced with a quantitative measure intended to assess a GSIB’s reliance on short-term wholesale funding. In addition, method 1 incorporates relative measures of systemic importance across certain global banking organizations and a year-end spot foreign exchange rate, whereas method 2 uses fixed measures of systemic importance and application of an average foreign exchange rate over a three-year period. The GSIB surcharges calculated under both method 1 and method 2 are based on measures of systemic importance from the year immediately preceding that in which the GSIB surcharge calculations are being performed (e.g., the method 1 and method 2 GSIB surcharges to be calculated by December 31, 2021 will be based on 2020 systemic indicator data). Generally, Citi’s surcharge determined under method 2 will result in a higher surcharge than its surcharge determined under method 1.

Should a GSIB’s systemic importance change year-over-year such that it becomes subject to a higher surcharge, the higher surcharge would not become effective for a full year (e.g., a higher surcharge calculated by December 31, 2021 would not become effective until January 1, 2023). However, if a GSIB’s systemic importance changes such that the GSIB would be subject to a lower surcharge, the GSIB would be subject to the lower surcharge beginning with the next calendar year (e.g., a lower surcharge calculated by December 31, 2021 would become effective January 1, 2022).

34

The following table sets forth Citi’s effective GSIB surcharge as determined under method 1 and method 2 for 2020 and 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Citi’s GSIB surcharge effective for both 2020 and 2019 was 3.0%, as derived under the higher method 2 result. Citi’s GSIB surcharge effective for 2021 will remain unchanged at 3.0%, as derived under the higher method 2 result. Citi expects that its method 2 GSIB surcharge will continue to remain higher than its method 1 GSIB surcharge. Accordingly, Citi’s GSIB surcharge effective for 2022 will not exceed 3.0%. Citi’s GSIB surcharge effective for 2023 will likely be based on the lower of its method 2 scores for year-end 2020 and 2021, and could increase to 3.5%.

Use of Regulatory Capital Buffers

In March 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued a statement encouraging banking organizations to use their regulatory capital buffers as they respond to the challenges presented by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Consistent with the statement, in October 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued a final rule (substantially unchanged from two previous interim final rules in March 2020) that eases capital distribution limitations in the original U.S. Basel III rules, in an effort to reduce the impact of using regulatory capital buffers. The changes in the rule have the potential to prevent a complete and sudden cessation of capital distributions due to a breach of regulatory capital buffers, which include the SCB, Capital Conservation Buffer, GSIB surcharge, and any Countercyclical Capital Buffer (currently 0%). 

The rule became effective in March 2020, and applies to risk-based capital ratios, the Supplementary Leverage ratio, and RWA-based or leverage-based external TLAC buffers. External Long-Term Debt requirements do not include any buffers and are, therefore, unaffected by the final rule. For additional information on Citi’s TLAC-related requirements, see “Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)” and “Risk Factors—Compliance, Conduct and Legal Risks” below.

More specifically, under the U.S. Basel III rules, banking organizations that fall below their regulatory capital buffers are subject to limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers based on a percentage of “Eligible Retained Income” (ERI), with increasing restrictions based upon the severity of the breach. The original definition of ERI in the U.S. Basel III rules was equal to the bank’s net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, net of any distributions and tax effects not already reflected in net income. The final rule revises the definition of ERI to equal the greater of: (i) the bank’s net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, net of any distributions and tax effects not already reflected in net income, and (ii) the average of the bank’s net income for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter.

As of December 31, 2020, Citi’s regulatory capital ratios exceeded effective regulatory minimum requirements. Citi is not subject to payout limitations as a result of Basel III requirements. For information related to capital distribution limitations that are currently in effect for large banks, see “Capital Plan Resubmission and Related Limitations on Capital Distributions” below.

The impact of the final rule on Citibank is limited, because the minimum requirements to be considered “well-capitalized” under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework are unchanged.

Prompt Corrective Action Framework

In general, the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regulations direct the U.S. banking agencies to enforce increasingly strict limitations on the activities of insured depository institutions that fail to meet certain regulatory capital thresholds. The PCA framework contains five categories of capital adequacy as measured by risk-based capital and leverage ratios: (i) “well capitalized,” (ii) “adequately capitalized,” (iii) “undercapitalized,” (iv) “significantly undercapitalized” and (v) “critically undercapitalized.”

Accordingly, an insured depository institution, such as Citibank, must maintain minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital and Tier 1 Leverage ratios of 6.5%, 8.0%, 10.0% and 5.0%, respectively, to be considered “well capitalized.” In addition, insured depository institution subsidiaries of U.S. GSIBs, including Citibank, must maintain a minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6.0% to be considered “well capitalized.” Citibank was “well capitalized” as of December 31, 2020.

Stress Testing Component of Capital Planning

Citi is subject to an annual assessment by the Federal Reserve Board as to whether Citigroup has effective capital planning processes as well as sufficient regulatory capital to absorb losses during stressful economic and financial conditions, while also meeting obligations to creditors and counterparties and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary. This annual assessment includes two related programs: the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST).

For the largest and most complex firms, such as Citi, CCAR includes a qualitative evaluation of a firm’s abilities to determine its capital needs on a forward-looking basis. In conducting the qualitative assessment, the Federal Reserve Board evaluates firms’ capital planning practices, focusing on six areas of capital planning—namely, governance, risk management, internal controls, capital policies, incorporating stressful conditions and events, and estimating impact on capital positions. As part of the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve Board evaluates Citi’s capital adequacy, capital adequacy process and its planned capital distributions, such as dividend payments and common share repurchases. The Federal Reserve Board assesses whether Citi has sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial market stress and whether Citi has robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for its unique risks. 

35

Since firms are now required to maintain risk-based capital ratio minimum requirements that integrate stress test results, the Federal Reserve Board’s SCB final rule eliminated a number of previous CCAR requirements, including the once-a-year quantitative objection, the pre-approval requirement from the Federal Reserve Board for making distributions in excess of planned capital actions, and the 30% dividend payout ratio as a criterion for heightened supervisory scrutiny.

All CCAR firms, including Citi, are subject to a rigorous evaluation of their capital planning process. Firms with weak practices may be subject to a deficient supervisory rating, and potentially an enforcement action, for failing to meet supervisory expectations. For additional information regarding CCAR, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” below. 

DFAST is a forward-looking quantitative evaluation of the impact of stressful economic and financial market conditions on Citi’s regulatory capital. This program serves to inform the Federal Reserve Board and the general public as to how Citi’s regulatory capital ratios might change using a hypothetical set of adverse economic conditions as designed by the Federal Reserve Board. In addition to the annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve Board, Citi is required to conduct annual company-run stress tests under the same adverse economic conditions designed by the Federal Reserve Board.

Both CCAR and DFAST include an estimate of projected revenues, losses, reserves, pro forma regulatory capital ratios, and any other additional capital measures deemed relevant by Citi. Projections are required over a nine-quarter planning horizon under two supervisory scenarios (baseline and severely adverse conditions). All risk-based capital ratios reflect application of the Standardized Approach framework under the U.S. Basel III rules. Moreover, the Federal Reserve Board has deferred the use of the Advanced Approaches framework indefinitely.

In addition, Citibank is required to conduct the annual Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test. The annual stress test consists of a forward-looking quantitative evaluation of the impact of stressful economic and financial market conditions under several scenarios on Citibank’s regulatory capital. This program serves to inform the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency as to how Citibank’s regulatory capital ratios might change during a hypothetical set of adverse economic conditions and to ultimately evaluate the reliability of Citibank’s capital planning process.

Capital Plan Resubmission and Related Limitations on Capital Distributions

In June 2020, the Federal Reserve Board determined that changes in financial markets and macroeconomic outlooks related to the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material effect on the risk profile and financial condition of each firm subject to its capital plan rule and, therefore, required updated capital plans. Citigroup resubmitted its capital plan in November 2020.

In December 2020, the Federal Reserve Board announced

that it was modifying and extending for an additional quarter several measures that were previously announced for the third and fourth quarters of 2020 to ensure that large banks maintain a high level of capital resilience. Through the end of the first quarter of 2021, the Federal Reserve Board has authorized firms, including Citi, to pay common stock dividends and make share repurchases that, in the aggregate, do not exceed an amount equal to the average of the firm’s net income for the four preceding calendar quarters, unless otherwise specified by the Federal Reserve Board, provided that the firm does not exceed the amount of common stock dividends paid in the second quarter of 2020. Additionally, through the end of the first quarter of 2021, the Federal Reserve Board has authorized firms to make share repurchases relating to issuances of common stock related to employee stock ownership plans, and to redeem and make scheduled payments on Additional Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital instruments. These limitations on capital distributions may be extended or modified by the Federal Reserve Board.

On June 29, 2020, Citi announced its planned capital actions including common dividends. Citi is permitted to return capital to common shareholders of up $2.8 billion during the first quarter of 2021, including the previously announced common dividends of $0.51 per share in the quarter, consistent with the Federal Reserve Board’s income-based formula for temporary limitations on common dividends and common share repurchases announced in December 2020. Citi commenced share repurchases in February 2021.

The Federal Reserve Board may, but is not required to, recalculate Citi’s SCB as a result of the capital plan resubmission, and has deferred such a decision up to March 31, 2021.

36

Citigroup’s Capital Resources 

Citi is required to maintain stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios of 4.5%, 6.0% and 8.0%, respectively. Citi’s effective minimum capital requirements are presented in the table below.

Furthermore, to be “well capitalized” under current federal bank regulatory agency definitions, a bank holding company must have a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at least 6.0%, a Total Capital ratio of at least 10.0% and not be subject to a Federal Reserve Board directive to maintain higher capital levels. 

The following tables set forth Citi’s capital components and ratios as of December 31, 2020, September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Beginning October 1, 2020, Citi’s effective minimum risk-based capital requirements include the 2.5% SCB and 3.0% GSIB surcharge under the Standardized Approach, and the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and 3.0% GSIB surcharge under the Advanced Approaches (all of which must be composed of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital). For prior periods presented, Citi’s effective minimum risk-based capital requirements include the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and the 3.0% GSIB surcharge under both Approaches.

(2)Citi has elected to apply the modified transition provision related to the impact of the CECL accounting standard on regulatory capital, as provided by the U.S. banking agencies’ September 2020 final rule. Under the modified CECL transition provision, the changes in retained earnings (after-tax), deferred tax assets (DTAs) arising from temporary differences, and the ACL upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date have been deferred and will phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022. For the ongoing impact of CECL, Citigroup is allowed to adjust retained earnings and the ACL in an amount equal to 25% of the change in the ACL recognized through earnings (pretax) for each period between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The cumulative adjustments to retained earnings and the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 will also phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022, along with the deferred impacts related to the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date. Corresponding adjustments to average on-balance sheet assets are reflected in quarterly adjusted average total assets and Total Leverage Exposure. Additionally, the increase in DTAs arising from temporary differences upon the January 1, 2020 adoption date has been deducted from risk-weighted assets (RWA) and will phase in to RWA at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022.

(3)Citi’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework as of December 31, 2020 and September 30, 2020, and the Basel III Standardized Approach as of December 31, 2019, whereas Citi’s reportable Total Capital ratio was the lower derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework for all periods presented.

(4)Tier 1 Leverage ratio denominator. Represents quarterly average total assets less amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital. 

(5)Supplementary Leverage ratio denominator. Commencing with the second quarter of 2020, Citigroup’s Total Leverage Exposure temporarily excludes U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks. For additional information, see “Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief” above.

37

Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 

Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 11.7% at December 31, 2020 and September 30, 2020, both under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework. Citi’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 11.8% at December 31, 2019 under the Basel III Standardized Approach. Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio remained unchanged from September 30, 2020, as a net increase in risk-weighted assets and the return of $1.1 billion capital to common 

shareholders in the form of dividends were offset by quarter-to-date net income of $4.3 billion. Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio decreased from year-end 2019, largely driven by a net increase in risk-weighted assets and the return of $7.2 billion of capital to common shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends, partially offset by year-to-date net income of $11.0 billion, beneficial net movements in AOCI, and the relief of the modified CECL transition provision.

Components of Citigroup Capital

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Footnotes continue on the following page.

38

(1)Issuance costs of $156 million and $152 million related to noncumulative perpetual preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, are excluded from common stockholders’ equity and netted against such preferred stock in accordance with Federal Reserve Board regulatory reporting requirements, which differ from those under U.S. GAAP. 

(2)Citi has elected to apply the modified transition provision related to the impact of the CECL accounting standard on regulatory capital, as provided by the U.S. banking agencies’ September 2020 final rule. Under the modified CECL transition provision, the changes in retained earnings (after-tax) and the ACL upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date have been deferred and will phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022. For the ongoing impact of CECL, Citigroup is allowed to adjust retained earnings and the ACL in an amount equal to 25% of the change in the ACL recognized through earnings (pretax) for each period between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The cumulative adjustments to retained earnings and the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 will also phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022, along with the deferred impacts related to the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date.

(3)Includes goodwill “embedded” in the valuation of significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions. 

(4)Of Citi's $24.8 billion of net DTAs at December 31, 2020, $15.3 billion was includable in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital pursuant to the U.S. Basel III rules, while $9.5 billion was excluded. Excluded from Citi's Common Equity Tier 1 Capital as of December 31, 2020 was $11.6 billion of net DTAs arising from net operating loss, foreign tax credit and general business credit tax carry-forwards. The amount excluded was reduced by $2.1 billion of net DTLs primarily associated with goodwill and certain other intangible assets that are separately deducted from capital. DTAs arising from tax carry-forwards are required to be entirely deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules. DTAs arising from temporary differences are required to be deducted from capital only if these DTAs exceed a 10% limitation under the U.S. Basel III rules. Citi’s DTAs do not currently exceed this limitation and, therefore, are not subject to deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, but are subject to risk weighting at 250%. 

(5)Represents Citigroup Capital XIII trust preferred securities, which are permanently grandfathered as Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules. 

(6)Banking entities are required to be in compliance with the Volcker Rule of the Dodd-Frank Act, which prohibits conducting certain proprietary investment activities and limits their ownership of, and relationships with, covered funds. The U.S. agencies issued a revised Volcker Rule 2.0 in November 2019 that removes permitted investments in third-party covered funds from capital deduction requirements, among other changes. Upon the removal of the capital deduction, permitted investments in third-party covered funds will be included in risk-weighted assets. Mandatory compliance with the revised Volcker Rule 2.0 is required by January 1, 2021, with early adoption permitted, in whole or in part, beginning January 1, 2020. Additionally, the U.S. agencies issued a revised Volcker Rule 2.1 in July 2020 that improves and streamlines several “covered funds” requirements, with an effective date of October 1, 2020. Citi continues to deduct from Tier 1 Capital all permitted ownership interests in covered funds for all periods presented. 

(7)Represents the amount of non-grandfathered trust preferred securities eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules, which will be fully phased out of Tier 2 Capital by January 1, 2022.

(8)Under the Advanced Approaches framework, eligible credit reserves that exceed expected credit losses are eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital to the extent that the excess reserves do not exceed 0.6% of credit risk-weighted assets, which differs from the Standardized Approach, in which the ACL is eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital up to 1.25% of credit risk-weighted assets, with any excess ACL being deducted in arriving at credit risk-weighted assets. The total amount of ACL that was eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital, subject to limitation, under the Standardized Approach framework was $14.0 billion and $13.9 billion at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 respectively. 

39

Citigroup Capital Rollforward 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40

Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Advanced Approaches) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Retail exposures decreased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, primarily driven by lower consumer activity in 2020 due to the pandemic.

(2)Wholesale exposures decreased during the three months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to reductions in commercial loans partially offset by an increase in investment securities. Wholesale exposures increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to increases in investment securities and rating downgrades partially offset by annual model parameter updates reflecting Citi’s loss experiences.

(3)Repo-style transactions include repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions as well as securities borrowing and securities lending transactions. Repo-style transactions increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, mainly driven by market volatility and volume increases.

(4)OTC derivatives increased during the three months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to an increase in mark-to-market gains for bilateral derivatives. OTC derivatives increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to increases in mark-to-market gains and notional for bilateral derivatives. 

(5)Derivatives CVA increased during the three months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to new trades with higher credit spreads and sensitivity. Derivatives CVA increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to widening credit spreads and market volatility.

(6)Other exposures include cleared transactions, unsettled transactions, assets other than those reportable in specific exposure categories and non-material portfolios. Other exposures increased during the three months and 12 months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to increases in centrally cleared transactions and various other assets. 

(7)Market risk-weighted assets increased during the three months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to changes in exposures impacting Stressed Value at Risk and Securitization charges. Market risk-weighted assets increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increases in market volatility due to the pandemic.

(8)Operational risk-weighted assets increased during the three months December 31, 2020, primarily due to changes in operational loss frequency. Operational risk-weighted assets decreased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to changes in operational loss severity and frequency.

41

Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Standardized Approach) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)General credit risk exposures include cash and balances due from depository institutions, securities, and loans and leases. General credit risk exposures increased during the three months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to new accounts and holiday spending for qualifying revolving exposures (cards) partially offset by reductions in commercial loans. General credit risk exposures decreased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to lesser spending for qualifying revolving (cards) exposures due to the pandemic. 

(2)Repo-style transactions include repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions as well as securities borrowing and securities lending transactions. Repo-style transactions increased during the three months and 12 months ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to increases in exposure and volume. 

(3)OTC derivatives increased during the three months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increases in mark-to-market gains for bilateral derivatives. OTC derivatives increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to increases in mark-to-market gains and notional for bilateral derivatives.

(4)Other exposures include cleared transactions, unsettled transactions, and other assets. Other exposures increased during three months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to increases in other assets and centrally cleared transactions. Other exposures decreased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to decreases in notional for centrally cleared derivatives and excess of credit reserves not included in Tier 2 capital eligible for RWA reduction.

(5)Off-balance sheet exposures increased during the three months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in loan commitments. Off-balance sheet exposures decreased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to a decrease in loan commitments.

(6)Market risk-weighted assets increased during the three months ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to changes in exposures impacting Stressed Value at Risk and Securitization charges. Market risk-weighted assets increased during the 12 months ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increases in market volatility due to the pandemic.

42

Supplementary Leverage Ratio

The following table sets forth Citi’s Supplementary Leverage ratio and related components as of December 31, 2020, September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents the daily average of on-balance sheet assets for the quarter.

(2)Citi has elected to apply the modified transition provision related to the impact of the CECL accounting standard on regulatory capital, as provided by the U.S. banking agencies’ September 2020 final rule. Under the modified CECL transition provision, the changes in DTAs arising from temporary differences and the ACL upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date have been deferred and will phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022. For the ongoing impact of CECL, Citigroup is allowed to adjust the ACL in an amount equal to 25% of the change in the ACL recognized through earnings (pretax) for each period between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The cumulative adjustments to the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 will also phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022, along with the deferred impacts related to the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date. Corresponding adjustments to average on-balance sheet assets are reflected in Total Leverage Exposure.

(3)Commencing with the second quarter of 2020, Citigroup’s Total Leverage Exposure temporarily excludes U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks. For additional information, see “Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief” above. 

(4)Represents the average of certain off-balance sheet exposures calculated as of the last day of each month in the quarter. 

(5)Under the U.S. Basel III rules, banking organizations are required to include in Total Leverage Exposure the effective notional amount of sold credit derivatives, with netting of exposures permitted if certain conditions are met. 

(6)Repo-style transactions include repurchase or reverse repurchase transactions as well as securities borrowing or securities lending transactions.

As set forth in the table above, Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio was 7.0% at December 31, 2020, compared to 6.8% at September 30, 2020 and 6.2% at December 31, 2019. The quarter-over-quarter increase was primarily driven by an increase in Tier 1 Capital resulting from net income and beneficial net movements in AOCI, partially offset by an increase in both average on-balance sheet assets and average off-balance sheet exposures. The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by a decrease in Total Leverage Exposure mainly attributable to the 109 basis point benefit resulting from the Federal Reserve Board’s temporary Supplementary Leverage ratio relief.

43

Capital Resources of Citigroup’s Subsidiary U.S. 

Depository Institutions 

Citigroup’s subsidiary U.S. depository institutions are also subject to regulatory capital standards issued by their respective primary bank regulatory agencies, which are similar to the standards of the Federal Reserve Board. 

The following tables set forth the capital components and ratios for Citibank, Citi’s primary subsidiary U.S. depository institution, as of December 31, 2020, September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Citibank’s effective minimum risk-based capital requirements are inclusive of the 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer (all of which must be composed of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital).

(2)Citibank has elected to apply the modified transition provision related to the impact of the CECL accounting standard on regulatory capital, as provided by the U.S. banking agencies’ September 2020 final rule. Under the modified CECL transition provision, the changes in retained earnings (after-tax), deferred tax assets (DTAs) arising from temporary differences, and the ACL upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date have been deferred and will phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022. For the ongoing impact of CECL, Citibank is allowed to adjust retained earnings and the ACL in an amount equal to 25% of the change in the ACL recognized through earnings (pretax) for each period between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The cumulative adjustments to retained earnings and the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021 will also phase in to regulatory capital at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022, along with the deferred impacts related to the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date. Corresponding adjustments to average on-balance sheet assets are reflected in quarterly adjusted average total assets and Total Leverage Exposure. Additionally, the increase in DTAs arising from temporary differences upon the January 1, 2020 adoption date has been deducted from risk-weighted assets (RWA) and will phase in to RWA at 25% per year commencing January 1, 2022.

(3)Under the Advanced Approaches framework, eligible credit reserves that exceed expected credit losses are eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital to the extent that the excess reserves do not exceed 0.6% of credit risk-weighted assets, which differs from the Standardized Approach in which the ACL is eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital up to 1.25% of credit risk-weighted assets, with any excess ACL being deducted in arriving at credit risk-weighted assets.

(4)Citibank’s reportable Total Capital ratio was derived under the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework as of December 31, 2020 and September 30, 2020, and the Basel III Standardized Approach as of December 31, 2019, whereas Citibank’s reportable Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital ratios were the lower derived under the Basel III Standardized Approach framework for all periods presented.

(5)Citibank must maintain minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital and Tier 1 Leverage ratios of 6.5%, 8.0%, 10.0% and 5.0%, respectively, to be considered “well capitalized” under the revised Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regulations applicable to insured depository institutions as established by the U.S. Basel III rules. Citibank must also maintain a minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6.0% to be considered “well capitalized.” 

(6)Tier 1 Leverage ratio denominator. Represents quarterly average total assets less amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital.

(7)Supplementary Leverage ratio denominator. Citibank did not elect to temporarily exclude U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from Total Leverage Exposure. For additional information, see “Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief” above.

As indicated in the table above, Citibank’s capital ratios at December 31, 2020 were in excess of the stated and effective minimum requirements under the U.S. Basel III rules. In addition, Citibank was also “well capitalized” as of December 31, 2020. 

44

Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank Capital Ratios 

The following tables present the estimated sensitivity of Citigroup’s and Citibank’s capital ratios to changes of $100 million in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital (numerator), and changes of $1 billion in Advanced Approaches and Standardized Approach risk-weighted assets and quarterly adjusted average total assets, as well as Total Leverage Exposure (denominator), as of December 31, 2020. This information is provided for the 

purpose of analyzing the impact that a change in Citigroup’s or Citibank’s financial position or results of operations could have on these ratios. These sensitivities only consider a single change to either a component of capital, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets or Total Leverage Exposure. Accordingly, an event that affects more than one factor may have a larger basis point impact than is reflected in these tables.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Citigroup Broker-Dealer Subsidiaries

At December 31, 2020, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a U.S. broker-dealer registered with the SEC that is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, had net capital, computed in accordance with the SEC’s net capital rule, of $12.7 billion, which exceeded the minimum requirement by $9.2 billion. 

Moreover, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, a broker-dealer registered with the United Kingdom’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) that is also an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, had total capital of $23.5 billion at December 31, 2020, which exceeded the PRA’s minimum regulatory capital requirements. 

In addition, certain of Citi’s other broker-dealer 

subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the countries in which they do business, including requirements to maintain specified levels of net capital or its equivalent. Citigroup’s other principal broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance with their regulatory capital requirements at December 31, 2020. 

45

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) 

U.S. GSIBs, including Citi, are required to maintain minimum

levels of TLAC and eligible long-term debt (LTD), each set by

reference to the GSIB’s consolidated risk-weighted assets

(RWA) and total leverage exposure.

Minimum External TLAC Requirement

The minimum external TLAC requirement is the greater of (i) 18% of the GSIB’s RWA plus the then-applicable RWA-based TLAC buffer (see below) and (ii) 7.5% of the GSIB’s total leverage exposure plus a leverage-based TLAC buffer of 2% (i.e., 9.5%).

The RWA-based TLAC buffer equals the 2.5% capital

conservation buffer, plus any applicable countercyclical

capital buffer (currently 0%), plus the GSIB’s capital

surcharge as determined under method 1 of the GSIB

surcharge rule (2.0% for Citi for 2020). Accordingly, Citi’s

total current minimum TLAC requirement was 22.5% of RWA for 2020.

Minimum LTD Requirement

The minimum LTD requirement is the greater of (i) 6% of the GSIB’s RWA plus its capital surcharge as determined under method 2 of the GSIB surcharge rule (3.0% for Citi for 2020), for a total current requirement of 9% of RWA for Citi, and (ii) 4.5% of the GSIB’s total leverage exposure.

The table below details Citi’s eligible external TLAC and

LTD amounts and ratios, and each effective minimum TLAC and LTD ratio requirement, as well as the surplus amount in dollars in excess of each requirement.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) External TLAC includes Method 1 GSIB surcharge of 2.0%.

(2) LTD includes Method 2 GSIB surcharge of 3.0%.

(3) Commencing with the second quarter of 2020, Citigroup’s Total Leverage Exposure temporarily excludes U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks. 

As of December 31, 2020, Citi exceeded each of the

minimum TLAC and LTD requirements, resulting in a $27

billion surplus above its binding TLAC requirement of LTD as

a percentage of Advanced Approaches risk-weighted assets.

For additional discussion of the method 1 and method 2

GSIB capital surcharge methodologies, see “Regulatory Capital Buffers—GSIB Surcharge” above.

For additional information on Citi’s TLAC-related requirements, see “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” and “Liquidity Risk—Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)” below.

Capital Resources (Full Adoption of CECL, and Excluding Temporary Supplementary Leverage Ratio Relief for Citigroup)

The following tables set forth Citigroup’s and Citibank’s capital components and ratios reflecting the full impact of CECL, and excluding temporary Supplementary Leverage ratio relief for Citigroup, as of December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio, as presented in the table above, reflects the full impact of CECL as well as the inclusion of U.S. Treasuries and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks in Total Leverage Exposure. 

46

Regulatory Capital Standards Developments

U.S. Banking Agencies

TLAC Holdings

In January 2021, the U.S. banking agencies issued a final rule that creates a new regulatory capital deduction applicable to Advanced Approaches banking organizations for certain investments in covered debt instruments issued by GSIBs. The final rule is substantially consistent with an April 2019 proposal, and is intended to reduce interconnectedness and systemic risk by creating an incentive for Advanced Approaches banking organizations to limit their exposure to GSIBs.

Under the U.S. Basel III rules, non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions are subject to deduction from regulatory capital using the corresponding deduction approach if, in the aggregate, they exceed 10% of the banking organization’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. Non-significant investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions that are not deducted from regulatory capital are risk weighted in the usual manner.

Under the final rule, an investment in a “covered debt instrument” will be treated as an investment in a Tier 2 Capital instrument and, therefore, will be subject to deduction from the Advanced Approaches banking organization’s own Tier 2 Capital in accordance with the existing rules for non-significant investments in unconsolidated financial institutions. Covered debt instruments include unsecured debt instruments that are “eligible debt securities” for purposes of the TLAC rule, or that are pari passu or subordinated to such securities, in addition to certain unsecured debt instruments issued by foreign GSIBs. 

To support a deep and liquid market for covered debt instruments, the rule provides an exception from the approach described above for covered debt instruments held for market-making activities for 30 days or less (or longer, for synthetic exposures only), if the aggregate amount of such debt instruments does not exceed 5% of the banking organization’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. 

Additionally, the final rule requires banking organizations to deduct from Tier 2 Capital investments in their own covered debt instruments.

The final rule will become effective for Citigroup and Citibank on April 1, 2021. Citi estimates that the final rule will not significantly impact Citigroup or Citibank’s regulatory capital upon adoption.

Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk

In January 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued a final

rule to introduce the Standardized Approach for

Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) in the U.S. The

mandatory compliance date of the SA-CCR final rule is

January 1, 2022, and early adoption was originally

permitted beginning April 1, 2020. For additional

information on the SA-CCR final rule, see “Capital

Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments”

in Citi’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In March 2020, the U.S. banking agencies issued an

interim final rule permitting banks to early adopt the SA-CCR final rule beginning with the quarter ended March 31,

2020.

Citi has not early adopted the SA-CCR final rule. Citi intends to implement SA-CCR upon the mandatory compliance date of January 1, 2022.

Basel Committee 

Deferral of Basel III Revisions

In April 2020, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the

Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel

Committee) announced that the implementation date of the

Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms finalized in

December 2017 has been deferred by one year to January 1,

2023. The reforms relate to the methodologies in deriving

credit and operational risk-weighted assets, the imposition

of a new aggregate output floor for risk-weighted assets,

and revisions to the leverage ratio framework. The Basel Committee also announced that the implementation date of

the revised market risk framework finalized in January

2019 has been deferred by one year to January 1, 2023.

The U.S. banking agencies may revise the U.S. Basel

III rules in the future, in response to the Basel Committee’s

Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms and revised market

risk framework.

Targeted Revisions to the Credit Valuation Adjustment

Framework

In July 2020, the Basel Committee issued a standard with targeted revisions to the credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk framework, which was previously finalized in December 2017 and will become effective on January 1, 2023. The revisions align the revised CVA risk framework, in part, with the revised market risk capital framework that was finalized in January 2019. The Basel Committee also adjusted the overall calibration of capital requirements calculated under their CVA risk framework.

The U.S. agencies may consider revisions to the CVA risk

framework under the U.S. Basel III rules in the future, based

upon the revisions adopted by the Basel Committee.

47

Tangible Common Equity, Book Value Per Share, Tangible Book Value Per Share and Returns on Equity

Tangible common equity (TCE), as defined by Citi, represents common stockholders’ equity less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs). Other companies may calculate TCE in a different manner. TCE, tangible book value (TBV) per share and returns on average TCE are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of TCE, TBV per share and returns on average TCE provides alternate measures of capital strength and performance for investors, industry analysts and others.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Year ended December 31, 2017 excludes the one-time impact of Tax Reform. Citi believes the presentation of its 2017 RoTCE excluding the impact of Tax

Reform provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying performance of its business for investors, industry analysts and others. For a reconciliation of these measures, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below.

(2)RoTCE represents net income available to common shareholders as a percentage of average TCE.

48

RISK FACTORS

The following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the material risks and uncertainties that could impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi or its management, could also negatively impact Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi may face.

STRATEGIC RISKS

Rapidly Evolving Challenges and Uncertainties Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic Will Likely Continue to Have Negative Impacts on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations and Financial Condition. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has become global, affecting all of the countries and jurisdictions where Citi operates. The pandemic and responses to it have had, and will likely continue to have, severe impacts on global health and economic conditions. These impacts will continue to evolve by region, country or state, largely depending on the duration and severity of the public health consequences, including the duration and further spread of the coronavirus; the potential for new variants of the virus; timely development, production and distribution of effective vaccines; availability of therapeutics; public response; and government actions. The impacts to global economic conditions include, among others: 

•the institution of social distancing and restrictions on businesses and the movement of the public in and among the U.S. and other countries;

•closures, reduced activity and failures of many businesses, leading to loss of revenues and net losses; 

•sharply reduced U.S. and global economic output, resulting in significant losses of employment and lower consumer spending, cards purchase sales and loan volumes; 

•lower interest rates; 

•disruption of global supply chains; and

•significant disruption and volatility in financial markets. 

The pandemic has had, and will likely continue to have, negative impacts on Citi’s businesses and overall results of operations and financial condition, which could be material. The extent of the impact on Citi’s operations and financial performance, including its ability to execute its business strategies and initiatives, will continue to depend significantly on future developments in the U.S. and globally, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the course of the virus, as well as any delay or weakness in the economic recovery or further economic downturn. 

Ongoing legislative and regulatory changes in the U.S. and globally to address the economic impact from the pandemic, such as consumer and corporate relief measures and continued lower interest rates, could further affect Citi’s businesses, operations and financial performance. Citi could also face challenges, including legal and reputational, and scrutiny in its implementation of and ongoing efforts to 

provide these relief measures. Such implementations and efforts have resulted in, and may continue to result in, litigation, including class actions, and regulatory and government actions and proceedings. Such actions may result in judgments, settlements, penalties and fines adverse to Citi. In addition, the different types of government actions could vary in scale and duration across jurisdictions and regions with varying degrees of effectiveness. 

The impact of the pandemic on Citi’s consumer and corporate borrowers will also vary by sector or industry, with some borrowers experiencing greater stress levels, which could lead to increased pressure on their results of operations and financial condition, increased borrowings or credit ratings downgrades, thus likely leading to higher credit costs for Citi. In addition, stress levels ultimately experienced by Citi’s borrowers may be different from and more intense than assumptions made in earlier estimates or models used by Citi, resulting in a further increase in Citi’s ACL or net credit losses, particularly as consumer and small business relief programs expire and the benefits of fiscal stimulus start to diminish. 

The pandemic may not be contained for an extended period of time. A prolonged health crisis could further reduce economic activity in the U.S. and other countries, resulting in additional declines in employment and business and consumer confidence. These factors could further negatively impact global economic activity and markets; cause a continued decline in the demand for Citi’s products and services and in its revenues; further increase Citi’s credit and other costs; and may result in impairment of long-lived assets or goodwill. These factors could also cause a continued increase in Citi’s balance sheet, risk-weighted assets and ACL, resulting in a decline in regulatory capital ratios or liquidity measures, as well as regulatory demands for higher capital levels and/or limitations or reductions in capital distributions (such as common share repurchases and dividends). Moreover, any disruption or failure of Citi’s performance of, or its ability to perform, key business functions, as a result of the continued spread of COVID-19 or otherwise, could adversely affect Citi’s operations. 

Any disruption to, breaches of or attacks on Citi’s information technology systems, including from cyber incidents, could have adverse effects on Citi’s businesses (see the operational processes and systems and cybersecurity risk factors below). These systems are supporting a substantial portion of Citi’s colleagues who have been affected by local pandemic restrictions and have been forced to work remotely. In addition, these systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, and Citi could experience service denials or disruptions if demand for such systems were to exceed capacity or if a third-party system fails or experiences any interruptions. Citi has also taken measures to maintain the health and safety of its colleagues; however, these measures could result in increased expenses, and widespread illness could negatively affect staffing within certain functions, businesses or geographies. In addition, Citi’s ability to recruit, hire and onboard colleagues in key areas could be negatively impacted by global pandemic restrictions (see the qualified colleagues risk factor below). 

49

Further, it is unclear how the macroeconomic business environment or societal norms may be impacted after the pandemic. The post-pandemic environment may undergo unexpected developments or changes in financial markets, the fiscal, monetary, tax and regulatory environments and consumer customer and corporate client behavior. These developments and changes could have an adverse impact on Citi’s results of operations and financial condition. Ongoing business and regulatory uncertainties and changes may make Citi’s longer-term business, balance sheet and strategic and budget planning more difficult or costly. Citi and its management and businesses may also experience increased or different competitive and other challenges in this environment. To the extent that it is not able to adapt or compete effectively, Citi could experience loss of business and its results of operations and financial condition could suffer (see the competitive challenges risk factor below). 

For additional information about trends, uncertainties and risks related to the pandemic, as well as Citi’s management of pandemic-related risks, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” above.

Citi’s Ability to Return Capital to Common Shareholders Consistent with Its Capital Planning Efforts and Targets Substantially Depends on Regulatory Capital Requirements, Including the Results of the CCAR Process and Regulatory Stress Tests. 

Citi’s ability to return capital to its common shareholders consistent with its capital planning efforts and targets, whether through its common stock dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends, among other things, on regulatory capital requirements, including the Stress Capital Buffer (SCB), which is based upon the results of the CCAR process required by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) as well as the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act (as described in more detail below). Citi’s ability to return capital also depends on its results of operations and financial condition, forecasts of macroeconomic conditions and effectiveness in managing its level of risk-weighted assets under both the Advanced Approaches and the Standardized Approach, Supplementary Leverage Ratio (SLR) and global systemically important bank holding company (GSIB) surcharge, which has been made more challenging due to the pandemic-related elevated levels of liquidity in the financial system (see macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties risk factor below). 

Citi’s ability to accurately predict, interpret or explain to stakeholders the results of the CCAR process, and thus to address any market or investor perceptions, may be limited as the FRB’s assessment of Citi’s capital adequacy is conducted using the FRB’s proprietary stress test models. In addition, all CCAR firms, including Citi, will continue to be subject to a rigorous evaluation of their capital planning practices, including, but not limited to, governance, risk management and internal controls. For additional information on limitations on Citi’s ability to return capital to common shareholders, as well as the CCAR process, supervisory stress test requirements and GSIB surcharge, see “Capital Resources—Overview” and “Capital Resources—Stress Testing 

Component of Capital Planning” above and the risk management risk factor below. 

The FRB has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices to continue to evolve and to likely be determined by the FRB each year as a result of its cross-firm review of capital plan submissions. Similarly, the FRB has indicated that, as part of its stated goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several parameters of the annual stress testing process may continue to be altered, including the severity of the stress test scenario, the FRB modeling of Citi’s balance sheet pre-provision net revenue (PPNR) and stress losses, and the addition of components deemed important by the FRB. 

Beginning January 1, 2022, Citi will be required to phase into regulatory capital at 25% per year the changes in retained earnings, deferred tax assets and ACL determined upon the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption date as well as subsequent changes in the ACL between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2021. The FRB has stated that it plans to maintain its current framework for calculating allowances on loans in the supervisory stress test for the 2021 supervisory stress test cycle, and to evaluate appropriate future enhancements to this framework as best practices for implementing the current expected credit losses (CECL) methodology are developed. The impacts on Citi’s capital adequacy of the FRB’s incorporation of CECL in its supervisory stress tests on an ongoing basis, and of other potential regulatory changes in the FRB’s stress testing methodologies, remain unclear. For additional information regarding the CECL methodology, including the transition provisions related to the adverse regulatory capital effects resulting from adoption of the CECL methodology, see “Capital Resources—Current Regulatory Capital Standards—Regulatory Capital Treatment—Modified Transition of the Current Expected Credit Losses (CECL) Methodology” above and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In addition, the FRB has integrated the annual stress testing requirements with ongoing regulatory capital requirements. For Citigroup, the SCB rule replaced the fixed 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer in Citi’s ongoing regulatory capital requirements for the Standardized Approach capital ratios. The SCB equals the maximum decline in Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio under a severely adverse scenario over a nine-quarter CCAR measurement period, plus four quarters of planned common stock dividends, subject to a minimum requirement of 2.5%. Effective October 1, 2020, Citi’s SCB was 2.5%. The SCB is calculated by the FRB using its proprietary data and modeling of each firm’s results. Accordingly, Citi’s SCB may change annually, or possibly more frequently, based on the supervisory stress test results, thus potentially resulting in volatility in the calculation of the SCB. Similar to the Capital Conservation Buffer, a breach of the SCB would result in graduated limitations on capital distributions. For additional information on the SCB, including its calculation, see “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Buffers” above. 

Although various uncertainties exist regarding the extent of, and the ultimate impact to Citi from, these changes to the FRB’s stress testing and CCAR regimes, these changes could increase the level of capital Citi is required or elects to hold, 

50

including as part of Citi’s management buffer, thus potentially impacting the extent to which Citi is able to return capital to shareholders. 

Citi, Its Management and Its Businesses Must Continually Review, Analyze and Successfully Adapt to Ongoing Regulatory and Legislative Uncertainties and Changes in the U.S. and Globally. 

Despite the adoption of final regulations and laws in numerous areas impacting Citi and its businesses over the past several years, Citi, its management and its businesses continually face ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes, both in the U.S. and globally. While the areas of ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes facing Citi are too numerous to list completely, various examples include, but are not limited to (i) potential fiscal, monetary, regulatory, tax and other changes arising from the U.S. federal government and other governments, including as a result of the new U.S. presidential administration, regulatory leadership and Congress or in response to the pandemic; (ii) potential changes to various aspects of the regulatory capital framework and requirements applicable to Citi (see the capital return risk factor and “Capital Resources—Regulatory Capital Standards Developments” above); and (iii) the future legislative and regulatory framework resulting from the U.K.’s exit from the European Union (EU), including, among others, with respect to financial services (see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—U.K.’s Future Relationship with the EU” below). When referring to “regulatory,” Citi is including both formal regulation and the views and expectations of its regulators in their supervisory roles. 

Ongoing regulatory and legislative uncertainties and changes make Citi’s and its management’s long-term business, balance sheet and strategic budget planning difficult, subject to change and potentially more costly. U.S. and other regulators globally have implemented and continue to discuss various changes to certain regulatory requirements, which would require ongoing assessment by management as to the impact to Citi, its businesses and business planning. For example, while the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms and revised market risk framework have been finalized at the international level, there remain significant uncertainties with respect to the integration of these revisions into the U.S. regulatory capital framework. Business planning is required to be based on possible or proposed rules or outcomes, which can change dramatically upon finalization, or upon implementation or interpretive guidance from numerous regulatory bodies worldwide, and such guidance can change. 

Moreover, U.S. and international regulatory and legislative initiatives have not always been undertaken or implemented on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence have developed and continue to develop with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to inconsistent or even conflicting requirements, including within a single jurisdiction. For example, in May 2019, the European Commission adopted, as part of Capital Requirements Directive V (CRD V), a new requirement for major banking groups headquartered outside the EU (which would include Citi) to establish an intermediate EU holding company where the foreign bank has two or more institutions (broadly 

meaning banks, broker-dealers and similar financial firms) established in the EU. While in some respects the requirement mirrors an existing U.S. requirement for non-U.S. banking organizations to form U.S. intermediate holding companies, the implementation of the EU holding company requirement could lead to additional complexity with respect to Citi’s resolution planning, capital and liquidity allocation and efficiency in various jurisdictions.

Regulatory and legislative changes have also significantly increased Citi’s compliance risks and costs (see the implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes risk factor below). 

Citi’s Continued Investments and Efficiency Initiatives May Not Be as Successful as It Projects or Expects. 

Citi continues to leverage its scale and make incremental investments to deepen client relationships, increase revenues and lower expenses, as well as significant investments to transform its infrastructure, risk management and controls and further enhance safety and soundness (for additional information, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). For example, Citi continues to make investments to enhance its digital capabilities across the franchise, including digital platforms and mobile and cloud-based solutions. Citi also has been making investments across the firm, such as in the U.S. consumer franchise, Citi’s wealth management businesses and treasury and trade solutions, securities services and other businesses in ICG, including implementing new capabilities and partnerships. Further, Citi has been pursuing efficiency improvements through various technology and digital initiatives, organizational simplification and location strategies. 

Citi’s investments and efficiency initiatives are being undertaken as part of its overall strategy to meet operational and financial objectives, including, among others, those relating to shareholder returns. Additionally, in connection with Citi’s CEO transition, Citi is undergoing an evaluation of its strategy, which may result in, among other things, additional investments as well as changes in or exits of businesses. There is no guarantee that these or other initiatives Citi may pursue will be as productive or effective as Citi expects, or at all. Additionally, such initiatives could result in losses, charges or other negative financial impacts. Citi’s investment and efficiency initiatives may continue to evolve as its business strategies, the market environment and regulatory expectations change, which could make the initiatives more costly and more challenging to implement, and limit their effectiveness. Moreover, Citi’s ability to achieve expected returns on its investments and costs savings depends, in part, on factors that it cannot control, such as macroeconomic conditions, including the negative impacts related to the pandemic, customer, client and competitor actions and ongoing regulatory changes, among others. 

Uncertainties Regarding the Transition Away from or Discontinuance of the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or Any Other Interest Rate Benchmark Could Have Adverse Consequences for Market Participants, Including Citi.

LIBOR continues to be widely used as a “benchmark” or “reference rate” across financial products and markets 

51

globally. Based on statements from U.S. and U.K. authorities, it is expected, however, that all non-U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors and some USD LIBOR tenors will cease after December 31, 2021, while most U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors will continue to be quoted through June 2023. As a result of LIBOR’s wide use, there can be no assurance that market participants, including Citi, will be able to successfully modify all outstanding LIBOR-based securities or products or be sufficiently prepared for all of the uncertainties resulting from LIBOR’s discontinuance. In addition, following guidance provided by the Financial Stability Board, regulators have suggested reforming or replacing other benchmark rates with alternative reference rates. The transition away from and discontinuance of LIBOR or any other benchmark rate presents various uncertainties, risks and challenges to holders of LIBOR-based securities and products as well as financial markets and institutions, including Citi. These include, among others, the pricing, liquidity, value of, return on and market for financial instruments and contracts that reference LIBOR or any other benchmark rate, including any alternative benchmark rate. 

Despite ongoing actions by Citi to prepare for the transition away from LIBOR (see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—LIBOR Transition Risk” below), Citi has continued to meet market demand by trading, holding or otherwise using a substantial amount of securities or products that reference LIBOR, including, among others, derivatives, corporate loans, commercial and residential mortgages, credit cards, securitized products and other structured securities. The transition away from and discontinuation of LIBOR for these securities and products presents significant operational, legal, reputational or compliance, financial and other risks to Citi. 

For example, the LIBOR transition presents various challenges related to contractual mechanics of existing floating rate financial instruments and contracts that reference LIBOR and mature after discontinuance of the relevant LIBOR. Certain of these legacy instruments and contracts do not provide for alternative benchmark rates, which makes it unclear what the future benchmark rates would be after LIBOR’s cessation. Further, Citi may not be able to amend certain instruments and contracts due to an inability to obtain sufficient required consent from counterparties or security holders. Even if the instruments and contracts provide for a transition to alternative benchmark rates, the new benchmark rates may, particularly in times of financial stress, significantly differ from the prior rates. As a result, Citi may need to proactively address any contractual uncertainties or rate differences in such instruments and contracts, which would likely be both time consuming and costly, and may not ultimately be successful. 

In addition, the transition away from and discontinuance of LIBOR could result in disputes, including litigation, involving holders of outstanding instruments and contracts that reference LIBOR, whether or not the underlying documentation provides for alternative benchmark rates. Citi will also need to further invest in and develop significant internal systems and infrastructure to transition to alternative benchmark rates to manage its businesses and support its clients. 

Citi’s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi’s Regulatory Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. Taxable Income. 

At December 31, 2020, Citi’s net DTAs were $24.8 billion, net of a valuation allowance of $5.2 billion, of which $9.5 billion was excluded from Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital under the U.S. Basel III rules, primarily relating to net operating losses, foreign tax credit and general business credit carry-forwards (for additional information, see “Capital Resources—Components of Citigroup Capital” above). Of the net DTAs at December 31, 2020, $4.4 billion related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards (FTCs), net of a valuation allowance. The carry-forward utilization period for FTCs is ten years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi’s DTAs. The FTC carry-forwards at December 31, 2020 expire over the period of 2021–2029. Citi must utilize any FTCs generated in the then-current-year tax return prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs. 

The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies. Forecasts of future taxable earnings will depend upon various factors, including, among others, the continued impact of the pandemic and other macroeconomic conditions. In addition, any future increase in U.S. corporate tax rates could result in an increase in Citi’s DTA, which may subject more of Citi’s existing DTA to exclusion from regulatory capital while improving Citi’s ability to utilize its FTC carry-forwards. Citi’s overall ability to realize its DTAs will primarily be dependent upon its ability to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Although utilization of FTCs in any year is generally limited to 21% of foreign source taxable income in that year, overall domestic losses (ODL) that Citi has incurred in the past allow it to reclassify domestic source income as foreign source. Failure to realize any portion of the net DTAs would have a corresponding negative impact on Citi’s net income and financial returns. 

Citi does not expect to be subject to the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT), which, if applicable to Citi in any given year, would have a significantly adverse effect on both Citi’s net income and regulatory capital. 

For additional information on Citi’s DTAs, including FTCs, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Income Taxes” below and Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Citi’s Interpretation or Application of the Complex Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in the Payment of Additional Taxes, Penalties or Interest. 

Citi is subject to various income-based tax laws of the U.S. and its states and municipalities, as well as the numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform), to its entities, operations and businesses. In addition, Citi is subject to 

52

litigation or examinations with U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities regarding non-income-based tax matters. Citi’s interpretations or application of the tax laws, including with respect to Tax Reform, withholding, stamp, service and other non-income taxes, could differ from that of the relevant governmental taxing authority, which could result in the requirement to pay additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material. For additional information on the litigation and examinations involving non-U.S. tax authorities, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Citi’s Presence in the Emerging Markets Subjects It to Various Risks as well as Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs. 

During 2020, emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 34% of Citi’s total revenues (Citi generally defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), and central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa in EMEA). Although Citi continues to pursue its target client strategy, Citi’s presence in the emerging markets subjects it to various risks, such as limitations of hedges on foreign investments; foreign currency volatility, including devaluations, sovereign volatility, election outcomes, regulatory changes and political events; foreign exchange controls; limitations on foreign investment; sociopolitical instability (including from hyperinflation); fraud; nationalization or loss of licenses; business restrictions; sanctions or asset freezes; potential criminal charges; closure of branches or subsidiaries; and confiscation of assets, and these risks can be exacerbated in the event of a deterioration in relationships between the U.S. and an emerging market country. For example, Citi operates in several countries that have, or have had in the past, strict capital and currency controls, such as Argentina, that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside of those countries (for further information, see “Strategic Risk—Country Risk—Argentina” below). 

Moreover, if the economic situation in an emerging markets country where Citi operates were to deteriorate below a certain level, U.S. regulators may impose mandatory loan loss or other reserve requirements on Citi, which would increase its credit costs and decrease its earnings (for further information, see “Strategic Risk—Country Risk—Argentina” below). In addition, political turmoil and instability have occurred in certain regions and countries, including Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, which have required, and may continue to require, management time and attention and other resources (such as monitoring the impact of sanctions on certain emerging markets economies as well as impacting Citi’s businesses and results of operations in affected countries). 

Citi’s emerging markets presence also increases its compliance and regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi’s operations in emerging markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations that are primarily focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks can be more acute in less developed 

markets and thus require substantial investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in certain of Citi’s business activities. Any failure by Citi to comply with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result, even if the regulations require inconsistent results, in legal or regulatory proceedings, fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, many of which could negatively impact Citi’s results of operations and reputation (see the implementation and interpretation of regulatory changes and legal and regulatory proceedings risk factors below). 

A Deterioration in or Failure to Maintain Citi’s Co- Branding or Private Label Credit Card Relationships, Including as a Result of Any Bankruptcy or Liquidation, Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations or Financial Condition. 

Citi has co-branding and private label relationships through its Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card businesses with various retailers and merchants globally, whereby in the ordinary course of business Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. Citi’s co-branding and private label agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and generally have a fixed term. The five largest relationships across both businesses in North America GCB constituted an aggregate of approximately 10% of Citi’s revenues in 2020 (for additional information, see “Global Consumer Banking—North America GCB” above). 

Over the last several years, a number of U.S. retailers have continued to experience declining sales, which has resulted in significant numbers of store closures and, in a number of cases, bankruptcies, as retailers attempt to cut costs and reorganize. The pandemic has exacerbated these trends

and generally resulted in a challenging operating environment

for retailers and merchants. In addition, as has been widely reported, competition among card issuers, including Citi, for these relationships is significant, and it has become increasingly difficult in recent years to maintain such relationships on the same terms or at all. 

Citi’s co-branding and private label relationships could continue to be negatively impacted by, among other things, the general economic environment; declining sales and revenues, partner store closures, government imposed restrictions, reduced air and business travel, or other operational difficulties of the retailer or merchant; termination due to a contractual breach by Citi or by the retailer or merchant; or other factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations or other similar events, whether due to the ongoing impact of the pandemic or otherwise (see the pandemic-related risk factor above). 

While various mitigating factors could be available to Citi if any of the above events were to occur—such as by replacing the retailer or merchant or offering other card products—these events, particularly bankruptcies or liquidations, could negatively impact the results of operations or financial condition of Citi-branded cards, Citi retail services or Citi as a whole, including as a result of loss of revenues, increased expenses, higher cost of credit, impairment of purchased credit 

53

card relationships and contract-related intangibles or other losses (for information on Citi’s credit card related intangibles generally, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 

Citi’s Inability in Its Resolution Plan Submissions to Address Any Shortcomings or Deficiencies Identified or Guidance Provided by the FRB and FDIC Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations. 

Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and submit a plan to the FRB and the FDIC for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or failure. On December 17, 2019, the FRB and FDIC issued feedback on the resolution plans filed on July 1, 2019 by the eight U.S. GSIBs, including Citi. The FRB and FDIC identified one shortcoming, but no deficiencies, in Citi’s resolution plan relating to governance mechanisms. For additional information on Citi’s resolution plan submissions, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below. 

Under Title I, if the FRB and the FDIC jointly determine that Citi’s resolution plan is not “credible” (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or would otherwise allow Citi to be resolved in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of Citi under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and Citi fails to resubmit a resolution plan that remedies any identified deficiencies, Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on its growth, activities or operations. If within two years from the imposition of any such requirements or restrictions Citi has still not remediated any identified deficiencies, then Citi could eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations. Any such restrictions or actions would negatively impact Citi’s reputation, market and investor perception, operations and strategy. 

Citi’s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted if Citi Is Not Able to Effectively Compete for, Retain and Motivate Highly Qualified Colleagues. 

Citi’s performance and the performance of its individual businesses largely depend on the talents and efforts of its diverse and highly qualified colleagues. Specifically, Citi’s continued ability to compete in each of its lines of business, to manage its businesses effectively and to execute its global strategy depends on its ability to attract new colleagues and to retain and motivate its existing colleagues. If Citi is unable to continue to attract, retain and motivate the most highly qualified colleagues, Citi’s performance, including its competitive position, the execution of its strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted. 

Citi’s ability to attract, retain and motivate colleagues depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside of its 

control. For example, the banking industry generally is subject to more comprehensive regulation of employee compensation than other industries, including deferral and clawback requirements for incentive compensation. Citi often competes for talent with entities that are not subject to similar regulatory requirements, including, among others, technology companies. Other factors that could impact Citi’s ability to attract, retain and motivate colleagues include its reputation, culture and the management and leadership of the Company and each of its lines of business, presence in a particular market or region and the professional opportunities it offers. For information on

Citi’s colleagues and workforce management, see “Human

Capital Resources and Management” below.

Financial Services Companies and Others as well as Emerging Technologies Pose Increasingly Competitive Challenges to Citi. 

Citi operates in an increasingly competitive environment, which includes both financial and non-financial services firms, such as traditional banks, online banks, financial technology companies and others. These companies compete on the basis of, among other factors, size, reach, quality and type of products and services offered, price, technology and reputation. Emerging technologies have the potential to intensify competition and accelerate disruption in the financial services industry. 

Citi competes with financial services companies in the U.S. and globally that continue to develop and introduce new products and services. In recent years, non-financial services firms, such as financial technology companies, have begun to offer services traditionally provided by financial institutions, such as Citi, and have sought bank charters to provide these services. These firms attempt to use technology and mobile platforms to enhance the ability of companies and individuals to borrow, save and invest money. In addition, as discussed

above, it is unclear how the macroeconomic business

environment or societal norms may be impacted as a result of

the pandemic. Citi may experience increased or different

competitive and other challenges in a post-pandemic

environment. 

To the extent that Citi is not able to compete effectively with financial technology companies and other firms, Citi could be placed at a competitive disadvantage, which could result in loss of customers and market share, and its businesses, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. For additional information on Citi’s competitors, see the co-brand and private label cards risk factor above and “Supervision, Regulation and Other—Competition” below. 

Climate Change Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

Citi operates globally, including in countries, states and regions where its businesses, and the activities of its consumer customers and corporate clients, could be negatively impacted by climate change. Climate change presents both immediate and long-term risks to Citi and its customers and clients, with the risks expected to increase over time. 

Climate risks can arise from physical risks (acute or chronic risks related to the physical effects of climate change) and transition risks (risks related to regulatory and legal, 

54

technological, market and reputational changes from a transition to a low-carbon economy). Physical risks could damage or destroy Citi’s or its customers’ and clients’ properties and other assets and disrupt their operations. For example, climate change may lead to more extreme weather events occurring more often which may result in physical damage and additional volatility within our trading and other businesses and potential counterparty exposures and other financial risks. Transition risks may result in changes in regulations or market preferences, which in turn could have negative impacts on asset values, results of operation or the reputation of Citi and its customers and clients. For example, Citi’s corporate credit portfolios include carbon-intensive industries like oil and gas and power that are exposed to climate risks, such as those risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy, as well as low-carbon industries that may be subject to risks associated with new technologies. U.S. and non-U.S. banking regulators and others have increasingly viewed financial institutions as important in helping to address the risks related to climate change both directly and with respect to their customers. Ongoing legislative or regulatory uncertainties and changes regarding climate risk management and practices may result in higher regulatory, compliance, credit and reputational risks and costs. 

For information on Citi’s management of climate risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—Climate Risk” below.

MARKET AND OTHER RISKS

Macroeconomic, Geopolitical and Other Challenges and Uncertainties Globally Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Businesses and Results of Operations. 

In addition to the significant macroeconomic challenges posed by the pandemic (see the pandemic-related risk factor above), Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts to its businesses and results of operations as a result of other macroeconomic, geopolitical and other challenges, uncertainties and volatility. For example, governmental fiscal and monetary actions, or expected actions, such as changes in interest rate policies and any program implemented by a central bank to change the size of its balance sheet, could significantly impact interest rates, economic growth rates, the volatility of global financial markets, foreign exchange rates and global capital flows. Additional areas of uncertainty include, among others, geopolitical tensions and conflicts, protracted or widespread trade tensions, natural disasters, other pandemics and election outcomes. Moreover, adverse developments or downturns in one or more of the world’s larger economies would likely have a significant impact on the global economy or the economies of other countries because of global financial and economic linkages.

In 2020, due to the pandemic, the FRB and other central banks took numerous actions to support the global economy, including by further reducing their benchmark interest rates and in certain instances providing additional liquidity to the financial system. Interest rates on loans Citi makes to customers and clients are typically based off or set at a spread over a benchmark interest rate, including the U.S. benchmark interest rate, and are therefore likely to decline as benchmark 

rates decline. By contrast, the interest rates at which Citi pays depositors are already low and unlikely to decline much further. Consequently, declining or continued low interest rates for loans and largely unchanged deposit rates would likely further compress Citi’s net interest revenue. Citi’s net interest revenue could also be adversely affected due to a flattening of the interest rate yield curve (e.g., a lower spread between shorter-term versus longer-term interest rates), as Citi, similar to other banks, typically pays interest on deposits based on shorter-term interest rates and earns money on loans based on longer-term interest rates. For additional information on Citi’s interest rate risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Market Risk—Net Interest Revenue at Risk” below. 

These and additional global macroeconomic, geopolitical and other challenges, uncertainties and volatilities have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, Citi’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, including its credit costs, revenues across ICG and GCB and AOCI (which would in turn negatively impact Citi’s book and tangible book value). 

OPERATIONAL RISKS

A Failure in or Disruption of Citi’s Operational Processes or Systems Could Negatively Impact Citi’s Reputation, Customers, Clients, Businesses or Results of Operations and Financial Condition. 

Citi’s global operations rely heavily on the accurate, timely and secure processing, management, storage and transmission of confidential transactions, data and other information as well as the monitoring of a substantial amount of data and complex transactions in real time. For example, Citi obtains and stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its consumer and institutional customers and clients, and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. Citi’s operations must also comply with complex and evolving laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates. 

With the evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the internet, mobile devices and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions, large global financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an ever-increasing risk of operational loss, failure or disruption, including as a result of cyber or information security incidents. These risks have been exacerbated during the pandemic, when a substantial portion of Citi’s colleagues have worked remotely and customers and clients have increased their use of online banking and other platforms (for additional information, see the cybersecurity risk factor below and pandemic-related risk factor above). 

Although Citi has continued to upgrade its operational systems to automate processes and enhance efficiencies, operational incidents are unpredictable and can arise from numerous sources, not all of which are within Citi’s control, including, among others, human error, such as processing errors, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, accidental system or technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of or cyber incidents involving computer servers or infrastructure or other similar losses or damage to Citi’s property or assets. Irrespective of the sophistication of the technology utilized by Citi, there will 

55

always be some room for human error. In view of the large transactions in which Citi engages, such errors could result in significant loss. Operational incidents can also arise as a result of failures by third parties with which Citi does business, such as failures by internet, mobile technology and cloud service providers or other vendors to adequately follow procedures or processes, safeguard their systems or prevent system disruptions or cyber attacks. 

Incidents that impact information security and/or technology operations may cause disruptions and/or malfunctions within Citi’s businesses (e.g., the temporary loss of availability of Citi’s online banking system or mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third parties. In addition, operational incidents could involve the failure or ineffectiveness of internal processes or controls. Given Citi’s global footprint and the high volume of transactions processed by Citi, certain failures, errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase the consequences and costs. Operational incidents could result in financial losses as well as misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential and other information or assets, which could significantly negatively impact Citi’s reputation, customers, clients, businesses or results of operations and financial condition. Cyber-related and other operational incidents can also result in legal and regulatory proceedings, fines and other costs (see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). 

For information on Citi’s management of operational risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Operational Risk” below. 

Citi’s and Third Parties’ Computer Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Susceptible to an Increasing Risk of Continually Evolving, Sophisticated Cybersecurity Activities That Could Result in the Theft, Loss, Misuse or Disclosure of Confidential Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi’s Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses. 

Citi’s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other similar events. These threats can arise from external parties, including cyber criminals, cyber terrorists, hacktivists and nation state actors, as well as insiders who knowingly or unknowingly engage in or enable malicious cyber activities. 

Third parties with which Citi does business, as well as retailers and other third parties with which Citi’s customers do business, may also be sources of cybersecurity risks, particularly where activities of customers are beyond Citi’s security and control systems. For example, Citi outsources certain functions, such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content on customer-facing websites and developing software for new products and services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could lead to compromise or the potential to introduce vulnerable or malicious code, resulting in security 

breaches impacting Citi customers. Furthermore, because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including as a result of derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi has increased exposure to cyber attacks through third parties. While many of Citi’s agreements with third parties include indemnification provisions, Citi may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under the provisions to adequately offset any losses Citi may incur from third-party cyber incidents. 

Citi has been subject to attempted and sometimes successful cyber attacks from external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempt to interrupt service to clients and customers, (ii) hacking and malicious software installations, intended to gain unauthorized access to information systems or to disrupt those systems, (iii) data breaches due to unauthorized access to customer account data and (iv) malicious software attacks on client systems, in an attempt to gain unauthorized access to Citi systems or client data under the guise of normal client transactions. While Citi’s monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. 

Further, although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. Because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched or even later, Citi may be unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address these methods until they are discovered. In addition, given the evolving nature of cyber threat actors and the frequency and sophistication of the cyber activities they carry out, the determination of the severity and potential impact of a cyber incident may not become apparent for a substantial period of time following discovery of the incident. Also, while Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing security control assessments of third-party vendors and limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary to perform job functions, these actions cannot prevent all third-party-related cyber attacks or data breaches. 

Cyber incidents can result in the disclosure of personal, confidential or proprietary customer or client information, damage to Citi’s reputation with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction and additional costs to Citi, including expenses such as repairing systems, replacing customer payment cards, credit monitoring or adding new personnel or protection technologies. Regulatory penalties, loss of revenues, exposure to litigation and other financial losses, including loss of funds, to both Citi and its clients and customers and disruption to Citi’s operational systems could also result from cyber incidents (for additional information on 

56

the potential impact of operational disruptions, see the operational processes and systems risk factor above). Moreover, the increasing risk of cyber incidents has resulted in increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny of firms’ cybersecurity protection services and calls for additional laws and regulations to further enhance protection of consumers’ personal data. 

While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses and may not take into account reputational harm, the cost of which could be immeasurable. 

For additional information about Citi’s management of cybersecurity risk, see “Managing Global Risk—Operational Risk—Cybersecurity Risk” below. 

Changes to or the Application of Incorrect Assumptions, Judgments or Estimates in Citi’s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses or Impacts in the Future. 

U.S. GAAP requires Citi to use certain assumptions, judgments and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including, among other items, the estimate of the ACL; reserves related to litigation, regulatory and tax matters exposures; valuation of DTAs; and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, such as goodwill or any other asset for impairment. If Citi’s assumptions, judgments or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect or differ from actual or subsequent events, Citi could experience unexpected losses or other adverse impacts, some of which could be significant. 

For example, the CECL methodology, adopted as of January 1, 2020, requires that Citi provide reserves for a current estimate of lifetime expected credit losses for its loan portfolios and other financial assets, as applicable, at the time those assets are originated or acquired. This estimate is adjusted each period for changes in expected lifetime credit losses. Citi’s ACL estimate depends upon its CECL models and assumptions, forecasted macroeconomic conditions, including, among other things, the U.S. unemployment rate and the U.S. Real GDP, and the credit indicators, composition and other characteristics of Citi’s loan and other applicable portfolios. These model assumptions and forecasted macroeconomic conditions will change over time, whether due to the pandemic or otherwise, resulting in greater variability in Citi’s ACL compared to its provision for loan losses under the previous GAAP methodology, and, thus, impact its results of operations, as well as regulatory capital, including as the CECL phase-in begins as of January 1, 2022.

Moreover, Citi has incurred losses related to its foreign operations that are reported in the foreign currency translation adjustment (CTA) components of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI). In accordance with U.S. GAAP, a sale or substantial liquidation of any foreign operations, such as those related to Citi’s legacy businesses, would result in reclassification of any foreign CTA component of AOCI related to that foreign operation, including related hedges and taxes, into Citi’s earnings. For additional information on Citi’s accounting policy for foreign currency 

translation and its foreign CTA components of AOCI, see Notes 1 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi’s financial statements, including those related to Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Changes to Financial Accounting and Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Periodically, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issues financial accounting and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi’s financial statements or interpretations thereof when those standards become effective, including those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present operational challenges and could also require Citi to change certain of the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect to particular businesses. For additional information on Citi’s accounting policies, including the expected impacts on Citi’s results of operations and financial condition, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

If Citi’s Risk Management Processes, Strategies or Models Are Deficient or Ineffective, Citi May Incur Significant Losses and Its Regulatory Capital and Capital Ratios Could Be Negatively Impacted. 

Citi utilizes a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of risk models in analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in conducting its activities. For example, Citi uses models as part of its comprehensive stress testing initiatives across the Company. Citi also relies on data to aggregate, assess and manage various risk exposures. Management of these risks is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial markets and conditions in which Citi operates as well as that losses can occur from untimely, inaccurate or incomplete processes caused by unintentional human error. 

In addition, in October 2020, Citigroup and Citibank entered into consent orders with the FRB and OCC that require Citigroup and Citibank to submit acceptable plans relating principally to making improvements in various aspects of enterprise-wide risk management, compliance, data quality management and governance and internal controls (see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above and the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below).

Citi’s risk management processes, strategies and models are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in many circumstances, assumptions and judgments that cannot anticipate every 

57

economic and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses, and its regulatory capital and capital ratios could be negatively impacted, if Citi’s risk management processes, including its ability to manage and aggregate data in a timely and accurate manner, strategies or models are deficient or ineffective. Such deficiencies or ineffectiveness could also result in inaccurate financial, regulatory or risk reporting. 

Moreover, Citi’s Basel III regulatory capital models, including its credit, market and operational risk models, currently remain subject to ongoing regulatory review and approval, which may result in refinements, modifications or enhancements (required or otherwise) to these models. Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well as any future changes or guidance provided by the U.S. banking agencies regarding the regulatory capital framework applicable to Citi, have resulted in, and could continue to result in, significant changes to Citi’s risk-weighted assets. These changes can negatively impact Citi’s capital ratios and its ability to achieve its regulatory capital requirements. 

CREDIT RISKS 

Credit Risk and Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses. 

Credit risk primarily arises from Citi’s lending and other businesses in both GCB and ICG. Citi has credit exposures to consumer, corporate and public sector borrowers and other counterparties in the U.S. and various countries and jurisdictions globally, including end-of-period consumer loans of $289 billion and end-of-period corporate loans of $387 billion at year-end 2020. 

A default by a borrower or other counterparty, or a decline in the credit quality or value of any underlying collateral, exposes Citi to credit risk. Despite Citi’s target client strategy, various pandemic-related, macroeconomic, geopolitical and other factors, among other things, can increase Citi’s credit risk and credit costs (for additional information, see the pandemic-related, co-branding and private label credit card, macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties and emerging markets risk factors above). 

While Citi provides reserves for expected losses for its credit exposures, as applicable, such reserves are subject to judgments and estimates that could be incorrect or differ from actual future events. Under the CECL accounting standard, the ACL reflects expected losses, rather than incurred losses, which has resulted in and could lead to additional volatility in the allowance and the provision for credit losses as forecasts of economic conditions change. In addition, Citi’s future allowance may be affected by seasonality of its cards portfolios based on historical evidence showing that (i) credit card balances typically decrease during the first and second quarters, as borrowers use tax refunds to pay down balances; and (ii) balances increase during the third and fourth quarters each year as payments are no longer impacted by tax refunds and the holiday season approaches. However these seasonal trends could be affected in 2021 due to the impacts of

the pandemic, government stimulus and expiration of

consumer and small business relief programs. For additional information, see the incorrect assumptions or estimates and changes to financial accounting and reporting standards risk factors above. For additional information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on Citi’s credit and country risk, see each respective business’s results of operations above and “Managing Global Risk—Credit Risk” and “Managing Global Risk—Strategic Risk—Country Risk” below and Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risks, can also increase Citi’s risk of significant losses. As of year-end 2020, Citi’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, including concentrations of credit risk to other public sector entities, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, Citi routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with non-U.S. sovereigns and with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, insurance companies, investment banks, governments, central banks and other financial institutions. Moreover, Citi has indemnification obligations in connection with various transactions that expose it to concentrations of risk, including credit risk from hedging or reinsurance arrangements related to those obligations (for additional information about these exposures, see Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). A rapid deterioration of a large borrower or other counterparty or within a sector or country where Citi has large exposures or guarantees or unexpected market dislocations could cause Citi to incur significant losses. 

LIQUIDITY RISKS 

The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of Citi’s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in Citi’s Credit Spreads. 

As a large, global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi’s businesses. Citi’s liquidity and sources of funding can be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and monetary policies, regulatory changes or negative investor perceptions of Citi’s creditworthiness, unexpected increases in cash or collateral requirements and the inability to monetize available liquidity resources, whether due to the pandemic or otherwise. Citi competes with other banks and financial institutions for deposits, which represent Citi’s most stable and lowest cost source of long-term funding. The competition for retail banking deposits has increased in recent years as a result of online banks and digital banking, among others. Furthermore, although Citi’s has had robust deposit growth since the onset of the pandemic, it remains unclear how “sticky” (likely to remain at Citi) those deposits may be, particularly in a less accommodating environment. 

58

Moreover, Citi’s costs to obtain and access secured funding and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads are driven by both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. For additional information on Citi’s primary sources of funding, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below. 

Citi’s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite declines, as is likely to occur in a liquidity stress event or other market crisis. A sudden drop in market liquidity could also cause a temporary or lengthier dislocation of underwriting and capital markets activity. In addition, clearing organizations, central banks, clients and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on their perceptions or the market conditions, which could further impair Citi’s access to and cost of funding. 

Additionally, as a holding company, Citi relies on interest, dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt and other obligations. Several of Citi’s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are or may be subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local regulatory stress test requirements. Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity. 

The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and a Ratings Downgrade Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi’s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or Collateral Requirements. 

The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, continuously evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries. Their ratings of Citi and its more significant subsidiaries’ long-term/ senior debt and short-term/commercial paper are based on a number of factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors that are not entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies’ proprietary rating methodologies and assumptions, and conditions affecting the financial services industry and markets generally. 

Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. A ratings downgrade could negatively impact Citi’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity and the impact from derivative triggers, which could require Citi to meet cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could have a negative impact on other funding sources such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there may be no explicit triggers, and on contractual provisions and other credit requirements of Citi’s counterparties and clients that may contain minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds. Some entities could have ratings limitations on their 

permissible counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. 

Furthermore, a credit ratings downgrade could have impacts that may not be currently known to Citi or are not possible to quantify. Certain of Citi’s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact not only Citi’s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of a reduction in Citi’s or Citibank’s credit ratings, see “Managing Global Risk—Liquidity Risk” below. 

COMPLIANCE RISKS 

Ongoing Interpretation and Implementation of Regulatory and Legislative Requirements and Changes in the U.S. and Globally Have Increased Citi’s Compliance, Regulatory and Other Risks and Costs. 

Citi is continually required to interpret and implement extensive and frequently changing regulatory and legislative requirements in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where it does business, resulting in substantial compliance, regulatory and other risks and costs. In addition, there are heightened regulatory scrutiny and expectations in the U.S. and globally for large financial institutions, as well as their employees and agents, with respect to, among other things, governance, infrastructure, data and risk management practices and controls. A failure to comply with these requirements and expectations or resolve any identified deficiencies could result in increased regulatory oversight and restrictions, enforcement proceedings, penalties and fines (for additional information, see the legal and regulatory proceedings risk factor below). 

Over the past several years, Citi has been required to implement a significant number of regulatory and legislative changes across all of its businesses and functions, and these changes continue. The changes themselves may be complex and subject to interpretation, and will require continued investments in Citi’s global operations and technology solutions. In some cases, Citi’s implementation of a regulatory or legislative requirement is occurring simultaneously with changing or conflicting regulatory guidance, legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal existing rules or enact new rules. Moreover, in some cases, there have been entirely new regulatory or legislative requirements or regimes, resulting in large volumes of regulation and potential uncertainty regarding regulatory expectations as to what is required in order to be in compliance. 

Examples of regulatory or legislative changes that have resulted in increased compliance risks and costs include (i) a proliferation of laws relating to the limitation of cross-border data movement and/or collection and use of customer information, including data localization and protection and privacy laws, which also can conflict with or increase compliance complexity with respect to other laws, including anti-money laundering laws; and (ii) the FRB’s “total loss absorbing capacity” (TLAC) requirements. Additionally, the banking industry generally is being called upon to do more on the issues of social, economic and racial justice. This could 

59

result in additional regulatory requirements regarding banking services for underserved communities and individuals.

Increased and ongoing compliance requirements and uncertainties have resulted in higher compliance costs for Citi, in part due to an increase in risk, regulatory and compliance staff over the last several years despite a reduction in the overall employee population. Extensive and changing compliance requirements can also result in increased reputational and legal risks for Citi, as failure to comply with regulations and requirements, or failure to comply with regulatory expectations, can result in enforcement and/or regulatory proceedings, penalties and fines. 

Citi Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Examinations, Investigations, Consent Orders and Related Compliance Efforts and Other Inquiries That Could Result in Significant Monetary Penalties, Supervisory or Enforcement Orders, Business Restrictions, Limitations on Dividends, Changes to Directors and/or Officers and Collateral Consequences Arising from Such Outcomes.

At any given time, Citi is a party to a significant number of legal and regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and regulatory examinations, investigations, consent orders and related compliance efforts, and other inquiries. Citi can also be subject to enforcement proceedings not only because of violations of laws and regulations, but also due to failures, as determined by its regulators, to have adequate policies and procedures, or to remedy deficiencies on a timely basis. 

The recent FRB and OCC consent orders require Citigroup and Citibank to submit acceptable plans to the FRB and OCC, on various timelines, relating principally to making improvements in various aspects of enterprise-wide risk management, compliance, data quality management and governance and internal controls. The consent orders require preparation of acceptable gap analyses that identify the required improvements and related root causes, as well as targeted action plans and quarterly progress reports detailing the results and status of the improvements. These improvements will result in significant investments by Citi during 2021 and afterwards, as an essential part of Citi’s broader transformation efforts to enhance its infrastructure, governance, processes and risk and controls. Although there are no restrictions on Citi’s ability to serve its clients, the Citibank consent order requires prior approval of any significant new acquisition, including any portfolio or business acquisition, excluding ordinary course transactions. Moreover, the Citibank consent order provides that the OCC has the right to assess future civil monetary penalties or take other supervisory and/or enforcement actions, including where the OCC determines Citibank has not made sufficient and sustainable progress to address the required improvements. Such actions by the OCC could include imposing business restrictions, including possible limitations on the declaration or payment of dividends and changes in directors and/or senior executive officers. More generally the OCC and/or the Federal Reserve could take additional enforcement or other actions if the regulatory agency believes that Citi has not met regulatory expectations regarding compliance with the consent orders. 

For additional information regarding the consent orders, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above.

The global judicial, regulatory and political environment has generally been challenging for large financial institutions. The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi’s operations, also means that a single event or issue may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies and authorities in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions, as well as multiple civil litigation claims in multiple jurisdictions. 

U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have been increasingly focused on “conduct risk,” a term used to describe the risks associated with behavior by employees and agents, including third parties, that could harm clients, customers, employees or the integrity of the markets, such as improperly creating, selling, marketing or managing products and services or improper incentive compensation programs with respect thereto, failures to safeguard a party’s personal information, or failures to identify and manage conflicts of interest. In addition to the greater focus on conduct risk, the general heightened scrutiny and expectations from regulators could lead to investigations and other inquiries, as well as remediation requirements, more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings, civil litigation and higher compliance and other risks and costs. 

Further, while Citi takes numerous steps to prevent and detect conduct by employees and agents that could potentially harm clients, customers, employees or the integrity of the markets, such behavior may not always be deterred or prevented. Banking regulators have also focused on the overall culture of financial services firms, including Citi. 

In addition to regulatory restrictions or structural changes that could result from perceived deficiencies in Citi’s culture, such focus could also lead to additional regulatory proceedings. Furthermore, the severity of the remedies sought in legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has remained elevated. U.S. and certain international governmental entities have increasingly brought criminal actions against, or have sought criminal convictions from, financial institutions and individual employees, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas or deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and individuals and other criminal sanctions for those institutions and individuals. These types of actions by U.S. and international governmental entities may, in the future, have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain products or services and/or operate certain businesses. Citi may be required to accept or be subject to similar types of criminal remedies, consent orders, sanctions, substantial fines and penalties, remediation and other financial costs or other requirements in the future, including for matters or practices not yet known to Citi, any of which could materially and negatively affect Citi’s businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, require material changes in Citi’s operations or cause Citi reputational harm. 

60

Further, many large claims—both private civil and regulatory—asserted against Citi are highly complex, slow to develop and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings. Although Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, Citi’s estimates of, and changes to, these accruals involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, and the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. In addition, certain settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved.

For additional information relating to Citi’s legal and regulatory proceedings and matters, including Citi’s policies on establishing legal accruals, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

61

HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT

Attracting and retaining a highly qualified and motivated workforce is a strategic priority for Citi. Citi seeks to enhance the competitive strength of its workforce through the following efforts:

•Continuous innovation in recruiting, training, compensation, promotion and engagement of colleagues

•Actively seeking and listening to diverse perspectives at all levels of the organization 

•Optimizing transparency concerning workforce goals, in order to promote accountability, credibility and effectiveness in achieving those goals 

Workforce Size and Distribution

As of December 31, 2020, Citi employed 210,153 colleagues in nearly 100 countries. The following table shows the geographic distribution of those colleagues by segment, region and gender:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Part-time colleagues represented less than 1.5% of Citi’s global workforce.

Workforce Management

Citi devotes substantial resources to managing its workforce. Citigroup’s Board of Directors provides strategic oversight and direction to management regarding workforce policies and practices, and includes many members with experience in overseeing workforce issues. The chair of the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board was formerly the global head of human resources for PIMCO, a leading global asset management firm, and later served as its president, with oversight responsibility for human resources. In addition, the Personnel and Compensation Committee regularly reviews management’s achievements against human capital management goals, such as addressing representation of women and U.S. minorities in senior roles at Citi, as well as talent recruitment and development initiatives. 

Diversity

Citigroup’s Board is committed to ensuring that it and Citi’s Executive Management Team are composed of individuals whose backgrounds reflect the diversity represented by Citi’s employees, customers and stakeholders. 

Additionally, over the past several years, Citi has increased its efforts to diversify its workforce. In furtherance of that goal, Citi has focused on measuring and addressing pay equity within the organization:

•In 2018, Citi was the first major U.S. financial institution to publicly release the results of a pay equity review comparing compensation of women to men and U.S. 

minorities to U.S. non-minorities. Since then, Citi has continued to be transparent about pay equity, also 

disclosing its unadjusted or “raw” pay gap for both women and U.S. minorities since 2019. 

•Citi’s 2020 results found that, on an adjusted basis, women globally are paid on average more than 99% of what men are paid at Citi, and there was no statistically significant difference in adjusted compensation for U.S. minorities and non-minorities. Following the review, appropriate pay adjustments were made as part of Citi’s 2020 compensation cycle. 

•Citi’s 2020 raw gap analysis showed that the median pay for women globally is better than 74% of the median for men, up from 73% in 2019 and 71% in 2018, and that the median pay for U.S. minorities is just under 94% of the median for non-minorities, which is similar to 2019 and up from 93% in 2018. 

•To continue closing the pay gap, Citi has set goals to increase representation at the assistant vice president through managing director levels to at least 40% for women globally and 8% for Black colleagues in the U.S. by the end of 2021.

Citi also has a goal to:

•expand the use of diverse slates across the firm in 2021 to include not one, but at least two women or racial/ethnic minorities in Citi’s interviews for U.S. hires and at least two women in interviews for global hires; and

62

•increase the analyst and associate programs to 50% female colleagues globally and 30% Black and Hispanic/Latino colleagues in the U.S.

In 2020, Citi also: 

•expanded the standard for a diverse slate to include at least one woman globally and one woman and/or U.S. minority for U.S. hires at the assistant vice president, vice president and senior vice president levels, in addition to managing director and director level hires;

• included a diverse slate of candidates, with at least one woman and/or U.S. minority, for 86% of roles that were posted globally with a qualified slate;

•increased representation of underrepresented minorities in its full-time U.S. campus recruitment program from 18% in 2019 to 26% in 2020;

•increased female representation in its full-time U.S. campus recruitment program from 45% in 2019 to 46% in 2020; and

•increased female representation in its summer internship program from 47% in 2019 to 52% in 2020 in the U.S. and from 48% in 2019 to 50% in 2020 globally, while Black and Hispanic/Latino representation in its summer class increased from 26% to 27% over the same timeframe. This was Citi’s most diverse intern class to date.

Workforce Development

Citi highly values a workplace environment where its colleagues can bring their whole selves to work and where diverse perspectives and ideas are embraced. Citi encourages career growth and development by offering broad and diverse opportunities to colleagues. Highlights of these opportunities include the following:

•Citi provides a range of internal development and rotational programs to colleagues at all levels, including various training programs and events to assist high-performing colleagues in building the skills needed to transition to manager and supervisory roles. 

•Citi has a focus on internal talent development and aims to provide colleagues with career growth opportunities, with 33% of open positions filled internally. This emphasis is particularly important as Citi focuses on providing career paths for its diverse talent base as part of its efforts to increase diverse representation at more senior levels of the organization.

•In order to assist colleagues in a rapidly changing world, Citi offers an online platform that delivers information on various topics of interest to colleagues, such as leadership, data analytics, artificial intelligence and cybersecurity, among others. 

For information about Citi’s reliance on a highly qualified and motivated workforce, see “Risk Factors” above. For additional information about Citi’s human capital management initiatives and goals, see Citi’s 2021 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC in March 2021 as well as its 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance Report available at www.citigroup.com.

For information about Citi’s proactive measures to preserve the health and safety of its workforce during the pandemic, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview” above.

63

This page intentionally left blank.

64

Managing Global Risk Table of Contents

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For additional information regarding certain credit risk, market risk and other quantitative and qualitative information, refer to Citi’s Pillar 3 Basel III Advanced Approaches Disclosures, as required by the rules of the Federal Reserve Board, on Citi’s Investor Relations website.

65

MANAGING GLOBAL RISK

Overview

For Citi, effective risk management is of primary importance to its overall operations. Accordingly, Citi’s risk management process has been designed to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks it assumes in conducting its activities. Specifically, the activities that Citi engages in, and the risks those activities generate, must be consistent with Citi’s mission and value proposition, the key principles that guide it and Citi's risk appetite. As discussed above, Citi is continuing its efforts to comply with the Federal Reserve Board and OCC consent orders, relating principally to various aspects of risk management, compliance, data quality management and governance, and internal controls, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” and “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” above.

Risk management must be built on a foundation of ethical culture. Under Citi’s mission and value proposition, which was developed by its senior leadership and distributed throughout the Company, Citi strives to serve its clients as a trusted partner by responsibly providing financial services that enable growth and economic progress while earning and maintaining the public’s trust by constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards. As such, Citi asks all colleagues to ensure that their decisions pass three tests: they are in Citi’s clients’ interests, create economic value and are always systemically responsible. In addition, Citi evaluates colleagues’ performance against behavioral expectations set out in Citi’s leadership standards, which were designed in part to effectuate Citi’s mission and value proposition. Other culture-related efforts in connection with conduct risk, ethics and leadership, escalation and treating customers fairly help Citi to execute its mission and value proposition.

Citi’s Company-wide risk governance framework consists of the risk management practices that include a risk governance structure and the firm’s key policies, processes, personnel and control systems through which Citi identifies, measures, monitors, and controls risks such that the Company’s risk taking is consistent with its strategy and risk appetite. It also emphasizes Citi’s risk culture and lays out standards, procedures and programs that are designed to set, reinforce and enhance the Company’s risk culture, integrate its values and conduct expectations into the organization, providing colleagues with tools to assist them with making prudent and ethical risk decisions and to escalate issues appropriately. 

Citi selectively takes risks in support of its underlying customer-centric strategy. Citi’s objective is to ensure that those risks are consistent with its mission and value proposition, including its commitment to responsible finance. Citi’s risk mission is taking intelligent risk with shared responsibility, without forsaking individual accountability. 

Citi’s risk appetite framework sets boundaries for risk taking and consists of a set of risk appetite statements that articulate the aggregate level and types of risk that Citi is willing to accept in order to achieve its strategic objectives and business plan and includes governance processes through which the risk appetite is established, communicated and monitored, and its breaches are escalated and resolved. It is built on quantitative boundaries, which include goals, risk 

limits and thresholds, and on qualitative principles that guide behavior. Citi’s risk appetite framework is enterprise-wide and applicable across products, functions and geographies and comprehensively covers the major categories of risk facing the firm. 

Citi’s risks are generally categorized and summarized as follows:

•Credit risk is the risk of loss resulting from the decline in credit quality (or downgrade risk) or failure of a borrower, counterparty, third party or issuer to honor its financial or contractual obligations.

•Liquidity risk is the risk that the firm will not be able to efficiently meet both expected and unexpected current and future cash flow and collateral needs without adversely affecting either daily operations or financial conditions of the firm. This risk may be exacerbated by the inability of the firm to access funding sources or monetize assets and the composition of liability funding and liquid assets.

•Market risk (including price risk and interest rate risk) is the risk of loss arising from changes in the value of Citi’s assets and liabilities or reduced net interest revenues resulting from changes in market variables, such as interest rates, exchange rates, equity and commodity prices or credit spreads. Losses can be exacerbated by the negative convexity of positions, as well as the presence of basis or correlation risks.

•Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. It includes legal risk, which is the risk of loss (including litigation costs, settlements and regulatory fines) resulting from the failure of the firm to comply with laws, regulations, prudent ethical standards and contractual obligations in any aspect of the firm’s business, but excludes strategic and reputation risks (see below).

•Compliance risk is the risk to current or projected financial conditions and resilience arising from violations of laws, rules or regulations, or from non-conformance with prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures or ethical standards. It also includes the exposure to litigation (known as legal risk) from all aspects of banking, traditional and non-traditional. 

•Reputation risk is the risk to current or projected financial conditions and resilience arising from negative public opinion. This risk may impair Citi’s competitiveness by affecting its ability to establish new relationships or services or continue servicing existing relationships.

•Strategic risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings, capital, or franchise or enterprise value arising from poor, but authorized, business decisions (in compliance with regulations, policies and procedures), an inability to adapt to changes in the operating environment, or other external factors that may impair the ability to carry out a business strategy. Strategic risk also includes:

◦Country risk, which is the risk that conditions in a country (which may be precipitated by developments within or external to a country) will impair the value of Citi’s franchise or will adversely affect the ability of obligors within that country to honor their 

66

obligations to Citi. Country risk includes sovereign defaults, banking crises, currency crises, currency convertibility and/or transferability restrictions or political developments.

Citi uses a lines of defense construct to manage its risks. The construct comprises units that create risks (first line of defense), those that independently assess risk (second line of defense), units that provide independent assurance (third line of defense) and units tasked with maintaining a strong control environment (control and support functions). The lines of defense, which include control and support functions, coordinate with each other in the risk management system in support of the common goal of identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risk-taking activities so they remain consistent with the firm’s strategy and risk appetite.

First Line of Defense: Front Line Units and Front Line Unit Activities

Citi’s first line of defense owns the risks inherent in or arising from their business and is responsible for identifying, assessing and controlling those risks so that they are within Citi’s risk appetite. 

Front line units are responsible and held accountable for managing the risks associated with their activities within the boundaries set by independent risk management. They are also responsible for designing and implementing effective internal controls and maintaining processes for managing their risk profile, including through risk mitigation, so that it remains consistent with Citi’s established risk appetite.

Front line unit activities are considered part of the first line of defense and are subject to the oversight and challenge of independent risk management, whether they are conducted by a front line unit or another line of defense designation. Note that front line units may also conduct control and support activities which are subject to the relevant firm-wide independent oversight processes specific to the risk category that they generate (e.g., operational risk, compliance risk, reputation risk).

The first line of defense is composed of Citi’s Business Management (Global Consumer Bank (GCB) and Institutional Clients Group (ICG)), Regional and Country Management, certain Corporate Functions (Enterprise Infrastructure, Operations and Technology (EIO&T) and Finance), as well as other front line unit activities.

Second Line of Defense: Independent risk management

Independent risk management units are independent of front line units. They are responsible for overseeing the risk-taking activities of the first line of defense and challenging the first line of defense in the execution of their risk management responsibilities. They are also responsible for independently identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling aggregate risks and for setting standards for the management and oversight of risk. At Citi, the second line of defense is defined to include Independent Risk Management and Independent Compliance Risk Management (ICRM). Independent Risk Management and ICRM report to Citi’s Chief Risk Officer and Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), respectively, both of whom report directly to the Citigroup CEO and have 

unrestricted access to the Citigroup Board of Directors or its committees.

Independent Risk Management

The Independent Risk Management organization sets risk and control standards for the first line of defense and actively manages and oversees aggregate credit, market (price and interest rate), liquidity, strategic, operational, compliance and reputation risks across the firm, including risks that span categories, such as concentration risk. 

Independent Risk Management is organized to align to businesses, regions, types of risk and to firm-wide, cross-risk functions or processes. There are teams that report to an independent Chief Risk Officer (CRO) for Citi’s businesses (Business CROs, including Finance Chief Risk Officers) and regions / legal entities (Regional / Legal Entity CROs). In addition, there are risk-category-aligned teams that report to a Risk Category Head (e.g., Market Risk, Operational Risk, Model Risk) and foundational teams that report to a Foundational Risk Management Head (e.g., Risk Governance, Enterprise Concentration Risk Management, Global Risk Review). All of the above Risk Heads, together with the Business and Regional / Legal Entity CROs, report to the Citigroup CRO.

Independent Compliance Risk Management 

The Independent Compliance Risk Management organization is designed to oversee and challenge products, functions, jurisdictional activities and legal entities in managing compliance risk, as well as promoting business conduct and activity that is consistent with Citi’s mission and value proposition and the compliance risk appetite. Citi’s objective is to embed an enterprise-wide compliance risk management framework and culture that identifies, measures, monitors, controls and escalates compliance risk across the firm. 

Product Line, Function and Country ICRM provide compliance risk management advice and credible challenge on day-to-day matters and strategic decision-making for key initiatives. Additionally, Country ICRM provides advisory and challenge on regulatory and enterprise wide matters such as regulatory changes in a country. ICRM has program-level Enterprise Compliance units whose Heads are responsible for coordinating and managing their respective horizontal, enterprise-wide compliance programs, setting standards and establishing priorities for program-related compliance efforts.

Third Line of Defense: Internal Audit

Internal audit is independent of front line units and independent risk management units. Internal audit provides independent assurance to the Citigroup Board of Directors on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal controls. Internal audit reports to a chief audit executive (i.e., Citi’s Chief Auditor) who has unrestricted access to the Board or its audit committee to facilitate the ability to execute specific responsibilities pertaining to escalation of risks and issues. 

The Internal Audit function has designated Chief Auditors responsible for assessing the design and effectiveness of controls within the various business units, functions, geographies and legal entities in which Citi operates.

67

The Citigroup Chief Auditor manages Internal Audit and maintains its independence from the front line units, Independent Risk Management, ICRM and control and support functions by reporting functionally to the Chairman of the Citigroup Audit Committee and administratively to the Citigroup CEO.

Control and Support Functions

Control and support functions do not meet the definition of front line unit, independent risk management or internal audit. While they do not report into the CRO or CCO, they are expected to design, implement and maintain an effective control environment with respect to the risks they generate, and also support safety and soundness. 

At Citi, the control and support functions are defined to include the following organizational units: Chief Administrative Office, Global Public Affairs, Human Resources, International Franchise Management, Legal (including Citi Security & Investigative Services) and the Office of the CBNA CEO.

Board and Executive Management

The Citigroup Board of Directors, both directly or through its committees, actively oversees Citi’s risk taking activities and holds management accountable for adhering to the risk governance framework. The primary responsibility of the Citigroup Board is to provide effective governance over Citi’s affairs for the benefit of its stakeholders. Directors have full and free access to management.

The standing committees of the Citigroup Board are the Risk Management Committee, Audit Committee, Personnel and Compensation Committee, Ethics, Conduct and Culture Committee and Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee. 

The Board delegates authority to the Executive Management Team, which consists of the Citigroup CEO and

certain direct reports of the CEO, for directing and overseeing day-to-day management of the firm. The Executive Management Team is responsible for developing and implementing policies, procedures and processes that translate the Board’s goals, strategic objectives and risk appetite and limits into prudent standards for the safe and sound operation of the firm.

The Executive Management Team reports to the Board on the firm’s overall risk profile, including aggregate and emerging risks, and provides the Board with information about current and potential risk exposures and their potential impact on earnings, capital and strategic objectives.

Executive Management committees have been designed to cover all primary risks to which Citi is exposed. These Executive Management committees escalate to standing committees of the Board. The standing Executive Management committees are the Group Risk Management Committee, Group Strategic Risk Committee, Citigroup Asset & Liability Committee, Group Business, Risk and Control Committee and Group Reputation Risk Committee.

CREDIT RISK

Overview

Credit risk is the risk of loss resulting from the decline in credit quality of a client, customer or counterparty (or downgrade risk) or the failure of a borrower, counterparty, third party or issuer to honor its financial or contractual obligations. Credit risk arises in many of Citigroup’s business activities, including:

•consumer, commercial and corporate lending; 

•capital markets derivative transactions; 

•structured finance; and 

•securities financing transactions (repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities loaned and borrowed).

Credit risk also arises from clearing and settlement activities, when Citi transfers an asset in advance of receiving its counter-value or advances funds to settle a transaction on behalf of a client. Concentration risk, within credit risk, is the risk associated with having credit exposure concentrated within a specific client, industry, region or other category.

Credit risk is one of the most significant risks Citi faces as an institution. For additional information, see “Risk Factors—Credit Risk” above. As a result, Citi has a well-established framework in place for managing credit risk across all businesses. This includes a defined risk appetite, credit limits and credit policies, both at the business level as well as at the Company-wide level. Citi’s credit risk management also includes processes and policies with respect to problem recognition, including “watch lists,” portfolio reviews, stress tests, updated risk ratings and classification triggers. 

With respect to Citi’s clearing and settlement activities, intraday client usage of clearing lines is monitored against limits, as well as against usage patterns with settlement activity monitored daily and intraday for select products. To the extent that a problem develops, Citi typically moves the client to a secured (collateralized) operating model. Generally, Citi’s intraday clearing and settlement lines are uncommitted and cancelable at any time.

To manage concentration of risk within credit risk, Citi has in place a framework consisting of industry limits, an idiosyncratic framework consisting of single name concentrations for each business and across Citigroup and a specialized framework consisting of product limits.

Credit exposures are generally reported in notional terms for accrual loans, reflecting the value at which the loans as well as other off-balance sheet commitments are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Credit exposure arising from capital markets activities is generally expressed as the current mark-to-market, net of margin, reflecting the net value owed to Citi by a given counterparty. 

The credit risk associated with these credit exposures is a function of the idiosyncratic creditworthiness of the obligor, as well as the terms and conditions of the specific obligation. Citi assesses the credit risk associated with its credit exposures on a regular basis through its ACL process (see “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates—Allowance for Credit Losses” below and Notes 1 and 15 to the 

68

Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as through regular stress testing at the company, business, geography and product levels. These stress-testing processes typically estimate potential incremental credit costs that would occur as a result of either downgrades in the credit quality or defaults of the obligors or counterparties.

For additional information on Citi’s credit risk management, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

CONSUMER CREDIT

Citi provides traditional retail banking, including small business banking, and credit card products in 19 countries and jurisdictions through North America GCB, Latin America GCB and Asia GCB. The retail banking products include consumer mortgages, home equity, personal and small business loans and lines of credit and similar related products with a focus on lending to prime customers. Citi uses its risk appetite framework to define its lending parameters. In addition, Citi uses proprietary and/or industry scoring models for new customer approvals. 

As stated in “Global Consumer Banking” above, GCB’s strategy is to leverage its global footprint and digital capabilities to develop multiproduct relationships with

customers, both in and out of Citi’s branch footprint.

Consumer Credit Portfolio

The following table shows Citi’s quarterly end-of-period consumer loans:(1)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)End-of-period loans include interest and fees on credit cards.

(2)Asia includes loans and leases in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

(3)Primarily consists of legacy assets, principally North America consumer mortgages.

For information on changes to Citi’s consumer loans, see “Liquidity Risk—Loans” below.

69

Overall Consumer Credit Trends

The following charts show the quarterly trends in delinquency rates (90+ days past due (90+ DPD) ratio) and the net credit loss (NCL) rates across both retail banking and cards for total GCB and by region. 

Global Consumer Banking

As shown in the chart above, GCB’s net credit loss rates decreased significantly year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter as of the fourth quarter of 2020, primarily due to the impacts of the consumer relief programs Citi implemented since the beginning of the pandemic, combined with the benefit of reduced customer spending and significant government stimulus and assistance, as well as other banks’ consumer relief programs. 

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate increased quarter-over-quarter, largely due to the expiration of the pandemic relief programs in certain countries. The 90+ days past due delinquency rate was largely unchanged year-over-year. 

As discussed above, loans modified under Citi’s consumer relief programs continue to be reported in the same delinquency bucket they were in at the time of modification and, thus, would not be reported as 90+ days past due or written off for the duration of the programs (which have various durations, and certain of which may be renewed by the customer). As a result of the significant and steady decline in

program enrollment, Citi ended its consumer relief programs

as of December 31, 2020 for the majority of countries and

products.

Citi expects to experience higher consumer net credit loss and 90+ days past due delinquency rates across regions, with sharper losses in Latin America GCB and Asia GCB starting in the near term. The losses will likely vary by business and region and be dependent on evolving macroeconomic and market conditions. These conditions include the severity and duration of the impact from the pandemic and the impacts of government stimulus programs, as well as the timing of expiration of consumer relief programs and when loans move into later delinquency buckets. Citi believes that these losses are adequately reserved for under the CECL standard at December 31, 2020. For additional information, see “COVID-19 Pandemic Overview—Pandemic and Other Impacts” above.

North America GCB

North America GCB provides mortgage, home equity, small business and personal loans through Citi’s retail banking network and card products through Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services businesses. The retail bank is concentrated in six major metropolitan cities in the U.S. (for additional information on the U.S. retail bank, see “North America GCB” above).

As of December 31, 2020, approximately 71% of North America GCB consumer loans consisted of Citi-branded and Citi retail services cards, which generally drives the overall credit performance of North America GCB (for additional information on North America GCB’s cards portfolios, including delinquency and net credit loss rates, see “Credit Card Trends” below).

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in North America GCB decreased significantly quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as of the fourth quarter of 2020, driven by the impacts of the consumer relief programs described above, unemployment benefits and government stimulus. 

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate increased quarter-over-quarter, primarily due to seasonality in cards and the impact of customers rolling off the consumer relief programs. 

The 90+ days past due delinquency rate modestly decreased year-over-year, primarily driven by the impacts of the consumer relief programs described above, unemployment benefits and government stimulus.

Latin America GCB

Latin America GCB operates in Mexico through Citibanamex, one of Mexico’s largest banks, and provides credit cards, consumer mortgages and small business and personal loans. Latin America GCB serves a more mass-market segment in Mexico and focuses on developing multiproduct relationships with customers.

70

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in Latin America GCB decreased significantly quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as of the fourth quarter of 2020, largely driven by the impact of the consumer relief programs described above. The 90+ days past due delinquency rate increased significantly quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, due to the adverse pandemic-related macroeconomic impacts, as well as the expiration of most consumer relief programs in Mexico by September 2020. 

Asia(1) GCB 

(1) Asia includes GCB activities in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

Asia GCB operates in 17 countries and jurisdictions in Asia and EMEA and provides credit cards, consumer mortgages and small business and personal loans.

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss and 90+ days past due delinquency rates in Asia GCB increased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as of the fourth quarter of 2020, driven by the adverse pandemic-related macroeconomic impacts in the region as well as the expiration of consumer relief programs, which generally have ended earlier than in Mexico and North America.

The performance of Asia GCB’s portfolios, with a 1.16% net credit loss rate, continues to reflect the strong credit profiles in the region’s target customer segments. Regulatory changes in many markets in Asia over the past few years have also resulted in improved credit quality.

For additional information on cost of credit, loan delinquency and other information for Citi’s consumer loan portfolios, see each respective business’s results of operations above and Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Credit Card Trends

The following charts show the quarterly trends in delinquencies and net credit losses for total GCB cards, North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services portfolios, as well as for Citi’s Latin America and Asia Citi-branded cards portfolios.

Global Cards

North America Citi-Branded Cards

North America GCB’s Citi-branded cards portfolio issues proprietary and co-branded cards. 

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in Citi-branded cards decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as of the fourth quarter of 2020, driven by the impact of the consumer relief programs described above, unemployment benefits and government stimulus. The 90+ days past due delinquency rate decreased year-over-year for the same reasons, while it increased quarter-over-quarter as a result of seasonality and the impact of customers rolling off the consumer relief programs described above.

North America Citi Retail Services

71

Citi retail services partners directly with more than 20 retailers and dealers to offer private label and co-branded cards. Citi retail services’ target market focuses on select industry segments such as home improvement, specialty retail, consumer electronics and fuel.

Citi retail services continually evaluates opportunities to add partners within target industries that have strong loyalty, lending or payment programs and growth potential.

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in Citi retail services decreased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as of the fourth quarter of 2020, driven by the impact of the consumer relief programs described above, unemployment benefits and government stimulus. The 90+ days past due delinquency rate decreased year-over-year for the same reasons, while it increased quarter-over-quarter as a result of seasonality and the impact of customers rolling off the consumer relief programs.

Latin America Citi-Branded Cards

Latin America GCB issues proprietary and co-branded cards. 

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss rate in Latin America Citi-branded cards decreased significantly quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as of the fourth quarter of 2020, largely driven by the impact of the consumer relief programs described above, while the 90+ days past due delinquency rate increased due to the adverse pandemic-related macroeconomic impact, as well as the expiration of the cards consumer relief program. 

Asia Citi-Branded Cards(1)

(1)Asia includes loans and leases in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

Asia GCB issues proprietary and co-branded cards. 

As shown in the chart above, the net credit loss and 90+ days past due delinquency rates in Asia Citi-branded cards increased quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as of the fourth quarter of 2020, driven by the adverse pandemic-related macroeconomic impacts as well as the expiration of the consumer relief programs described above.

For additional information on cost of credit, delinquency and other information for Citi’s cards portfolios, see each respective business’s results of operations above and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

North America Cards FICO Distribution

The following tables show the current FICO score distributions for Citi’s North America cards portfolios based on end-of-period receivables. FICO scores are updated monthly for substantially all of the portfolio and on a quarterly basis for the remaining portfolio.

Citi-Branded Cards

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Citi Retail Services

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The FICO bands in the tables are consistent with general industry peer presentations. 

In 2020, FICO distributions improved in both Citi‐branded cards and Citi retail services, primarily due to the impacts of the consumer relief programs and significant government stimulus and assistance, as well as lower credit utilization due to reduced customer spending. For additional information on FICO scores, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

72

Additional Consumer Credit Details

Consumer Loan Delinquencies Amounts and Ratios(1)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)As discussed above, loans modified under Citi’s consumer relief programs continue to be reported in the same delinquency bucket they were in at the time of modification (which have various durations, and certain of which may be renewed by the customer).

(2)End-of-period (EOP) loans include interest and fees on credit cards.

(3)The ratios of 90+ days past due and 30–89 days past due are calculated based on EOP loans, net of unearned income.

(4)The 90+ days past due balances for North America—Citi-branded and North America—Citi retail services are generally still accruing interest. Citigroup’s policy is generally to accrue interest on credit card loans until 180 days past due, unless notification of bankruptcy filing has been received earlier.

(5)The 90+ days past due and 30–89 days past due and related ratios for North America GCB exclude U.S. mortgage loans that are guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored agencies, since the potential loss predominantly resides within the agencies. The amounts excluded for loans 90+ days past due and (EOP loans) were $171 million ($0.7 billion), $135 million ($0.5 billion) and $211 million ($0.7 billion) at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The amounts excluded for loans 30–89 days past due (the 30—89 days past due EOP loans have the same adjustments as the 90+ days past due EOP loans) were $98 million, $72 million and $86 million at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(6)Asia includes delinquencies and loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

(7)The 90+ days past due and 30–89 days past due and related ratios exclude U.S. mortgage loans that are guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored agencies, since the potential loss predominantly resides within the agencies. The amounts excluded for loans 90+ days past due and (EOP loans) were $183 million ($0.5 billion), $172 million ($0.4 billion) and $367 million ($.8 billion) at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The amounts excluded for loans 30–89 days past due (the 30—89 days past due EOP loans have the same adjustments as the 90+ days past due EOP loans) were $73 million, $55 million and $122 million at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

73

Consumer Loan Net Credit Losses and Ratios

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average loans include interest and fees on credit cards.

(2)The ratios of net credit losses are calculated based on average loans, net of unearned income.

(3)Asia includes NCLs and average loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

74

Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing of

U.S. Consumer Mortgages

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

75

CORPORATE CREDIT

Consistent with its overall strategy, Citi’s corporate clients are typically large, multinational corporations that value the depth and breadth of Citi’s global network. Citi aims to establish relationships with these clients that, consistent with client needs, encompass multiple products, including cash management and trade services, foreign exchange, lending, capital markets and M&A advisory. Citi’s corporate credit

exposures also include exposures in the private bank,

excluding certain loans managed on a delinquency basis. 

Corporate Credit Portfolio

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit portfolio within ICG (excluding certain loans in the private bank, which are managed on a delinquency basis), and before consideration of collateral or hedges, by remaining tenor for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes drawn loans, overdrafts, bankers’ acceptances and leases. 

(2) Includes unused commitments to lend, letters of credit and financial guarantees.

Portfolio Mix—Geography and Counterparty

Citi’s corporate credit portfolio is diverse across geography and counterparty. The following table shows the percentage of this portfolio by region (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio) based on Citi’s internal management geography:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The maintenance of accurate and consistent risk ratings across the corporate credit portfolio facilitates the comparison of credit exposure across all lines of business, geographic regions and products. Counterparty risk ratings reflect an estimated probability of default for a counterparty and are derived by leveraging validated statistical models, scorecard models and external agency ratings (under defined circumstances), in combination with consideration of factors specific to the obligor or market, such as management experience, competitive position, regulatory environment and 

commodity prices. Facility risk ratings are assigned that reflect the probability of default of the obligor and factors that affect the loss given default of the facility, such as support or collateral. Internal obligor ratings that generally correspond to BBB and above are considered investment grade, while those below are considered non-investment grade.

The following table presents the corporate credit portfolio (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio) by facility risk rating as a percentage of the total corporate credit portfolio:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Total exposure includes direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments. 

76

In addition to the obligor and facility risk ratings assigned to all exposures, Citi may classify exposures in the corporate credit portfolio. These classifications are consistent with Citi’s interpretation of the U.S. banking regulators’ definition of criticized exposures, which may categorize exposures as special mention, substandard, doubtful, or loss.

Risk ratings and classifications are reviewed regularly, and adjusted as appropriate. The credit review process incorporates quantitative and qualitative factors, including financial and non-financial disclosures or metrics, idiosyncratic events or changes to the competitive, regulatory or macroeconomic environment. This includes but is not limited to exposures in those sectors significantly impacted by the pandemic (including energy and energy-related, consumer retail, commercial real estate and transportation). 

Citigroup believes the corporate credit portfolio to be appropriately rated and classified as of December 31, 2020. During the year and since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, Citigroup has taken action to adjust internal ratings and classifications of exposures as both the macroeconomic environment and obligor-specific factors have changed, particularly where additional stress has been seen. 

As obligor risk ratings are downgraded, the probability of default increases. Downgrades of obligor risk ratings tend to result in a higher provision for credit losses. In addition, downgrades may result in the purchase of additional credit derivatives or other risk mitigants to hedge the incremental credit risk, or may result in Citi seeking to reduce exposure to an obligor or an industry sector. Citi will continue to review exposures to ensure the appropriate probability of default is incorporated into all risk assessments.

For additional information on Citi’s corporate credit portfolio, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Portfolio Mix—Industry

Citi’s corporate credit portfolio is diversified by industry. The following table details the allocation of Citi’s total corporate credit portfolio by industry (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

77

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit portfolio by industry as of December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Excludes $42.6 billion and $4.4 billion of funded and unfunded exposure at December 31, 2020, respectively, primarily related to the delinquency-managed credit portfolio of the private bank.

(2) Includes non-accrual loan exposures and criticized unfunded exposures.

(3) Excludes $162 million of past due loans primarily related to the delinquency-managed credit portfolio of the private bank.

(4) Net charge-offs (recoveries) are for the year ended December 31, 2020 and exclude delinquency-managed private bank charge-offs of $10 million.

(5) Represents the amount of purchased credit protection in the form of derivatives to economically hedge funded and unfunded exposures. Of the $38.8 billion of purchased credit protection, $36.8 billion represents the total notional of purchased credit derivatives on individual reference entities. The remaining $2.0 billion represents the first loss tranche of portfolios of purchased credit derivatives with a total notional of $16.1 billion, where the protection seller absorbs the first loss on the referenced loan portfolios.

(6) Autos total credit exposure includes securitization financing facilities secured by auto loans and leases, extended mainly to the finance company subsidiaries of global auto manufacturers, bank subsidiaries and independent auto finance companies, of approximately $20.2 billion ($10.3 billion in funded, with more than 99% rated investment grade) as of December 31, 2020.

(7) In addition to this exposure, Citi has energy-related exposure within the public sector (e.g., energy-related state-owned entities) and the transportation and industrials sector (e.g., off-shore drilling entities) included in the table above. As of December 31, 2020, Citi’s total exposure to these energy-related entities was approximately $7.0 billion, of which approximately $3.8 billion consisted of direct outstanding funded loans.

78

Exposure to Commercial Real Estate

As of December 31, 2020, ICG’s total corporate credit exposure to commercial real estate (CRE) was $58 billion, with $41 billion consisting of direct outstanding funded loans (mainly included in the real estate and private bank categories in the above table), or 6% of Citi’s total outstanding loans. In addition, as of December 31, 2020, more than 70% of ICG’s total corporate CRE exposure was to borrowers in the United States. Also as of December 31, 2020, approximately 77% of ICG’s total corporate CRE exposure was rated investment grade.

As of December 31, 2020, the ACLL was 1.8% of funded CRE exposure, including 5.1% of funded non-investment grade exposure.

Of the total CRE exposure:

•$20 billion of the exposure ($13 billion of direct outstanding funded loans) relates to Community Reinvestment Act-related lending provided pursuant to Citi’s regulatory requirements to meet the credit needs of borrowers in low and moderate income neighborhoods.

•$13 billion of the exposure ($12 billion of direct outstanding funded loans) relates to exposure secured by mortgages on underlying properties or in well-rated securitization exposures.

•$13 billion of the exposure ($5 billion of direct outstanding funded loans) relates to unsecured loans to large REITs, with nearly 75% of the exposure rated investment grade.

•$12 billion of the exposure ($11 billion of direct outstanding funded loans) relates to CRE exposure in the private bank, of which 100% is secured by mortgages. In addition, 45% of the exposure is also full recourse to the client. As of December 31, 2020, 77% of the exposure was rated investment grade.

79

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit portfolio by industry as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Excludes $39.7 billion and $3.4 billion of funded and unfunded exposure at December 31, 2019, respectively, primarily related to the delinquency-managed credit portfolio of the private bank.

(2) Includes non-accrual loan exposures and criticized unfunded exposures.

(3) Excludes $434 million of past due loans primarily related to the delinquency-managed credit portfolio of the private bank.

(4) Net charge-offs (recoveries) are for the year ended December 31, 2019 and exclude delinquency-managed private bank charge-offs of $6 million.

(5) Represents the amount of purchased credit protection in the form of derivatives to economically hedge funded and unfunded exposures. Of the $32.1 billion of purchased credit protection, $30.5 billion represents the total notional of purchased credit derivatives on individual reference entities. The remaining $1.6 billion represents the first loss tranche of portfolios of purchased credit derivatives with a total notional of $13.8 billion, where the protection seller absorbs the first loss on the referenced loan portfolios.

(6) Autos total credit exposure includes securitization financing facilities secured by auto loans and leases, extended mainly to the finance company subsidiaries of global auto manufacturers, bank subsidiaries and independent auto finance companies, of approximately $17.9 billion ($7.7 billion in funded, with more than 99% rated investment grade) at December 31, 2019.

(7) In addition to this exposure, Citi has energy-related exposure within the public sector (e.g., energy-related state-owned entities) and the transportation and industrials sector (e.g., off-shore drilling entities) included in the table above. As of December 31, 2019, Citi’s total exposure to these energy-related entities was approximately $5.5 billion, of which approximately $3.2 billion consisted of direct outstanding funded loans. 

80

Credit Risk Mitigation

As part of its overall risk management activities, Citigroup uses credit derivatives and other risk mitigants to hedge portions of the credit risk in its corporate credit portfolio, in addition to outright asset sales. Citi may enter into partial-term hedges as well as full-term hedges. In advance of the expiration of partial-term hedges, Citi will determine, among other factors, the economic feasibility of hedging the remaining life of the instrument. The results of the mark-to-market and any realized gains or losses on credit derivatives are reflected primarily in Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

At December 31, 2020, September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, ICG (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio) had economic hedges on the corporate credit portfolio of $38.8 billion, $38.4 billion and $32.1 billion, respectively. Citigroup’s expected credit loss model used in the calculation of its ACL does not include the favorable impact of credit derivatives and other mitigants that are marked to market. In addition, the reported amounts of direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments in the tables above do not reflect the impact of these hedging transactions. The credit protection was economically hedging underlying ICG (excluding the delinquency-managed private bank portfolio) corporate credit portfolio exposures with the following risk rating distribution:

Rating of Hedged Exposure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing of Corporate

Loans 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Based on contractual terms. Repricing characteristics may effectively be modified from time to time using derivative contracts. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

81

ADDITIONAL CONSUMER AND CORPORATE CREDIT DETAILS

Loans Outstanding

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)North America includes the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. Mexico is included in offices outside North America. The classification of corporate loans between offices in North America and outside North America is based on the domicile of the booking unit. The difference between the domicile of the booking unit and the domicile of the managing unit is not material.

(2)Loans secured primarily by real estate.

(3)Consumer loans are net of unearned income of $749 million, $783 million, $742 million, $768 million and $803 million at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Unearned income on consumer loans primarily represents unamortized origination fees and costs, premiums and discounts. 

(4)Corporate loans include private bank loans and are net of unearned income of $(844) million, $(814) million, $(855) million, $(794) million and $(730) million at December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Unearned income on corporate loans primarily represents interest received in advance, but not yet earned, on loans originated on a discounted basis.

(5)Because loans carried at fair value do not have an ACLL, they are excluded from the ACLL ratio calculation.

82

Details of Credit Loss Experience

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

83

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)On January 1, 2020, Citi adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 326, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (CECL). The ASC introduces a new credit loss methodology requiring earlier recognition of credit losses while also providing additional disclosure about credit risk. On January 1, 2020, Citi recorded a $4.1 billion, or an approximate 29%, pretax increase in the Allowance for credit losses, along with a $3.1 billion after-tax decrease in Retained earnings and a deferred tax asset increase of $1.0 billion. This transition impact reflects (i) a $4.9 billion build to the Consumer ACL due to longer estimated tenors than under the incurred loss methodology under prior U.S. GAAP, net of recoveries; and (ii) a $0.8 billion decrease to the Corporate ACL due to shorter remaining tenors, incorporation of recoveries and use of more specific historical loss data based on an increase in portfolio segmentation across industries and geographies. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the impact of Citi’s adoption of CECL.

(2)Citi had a change in accounting related to its variable post-charge-off third-party collection costs which was recorded as an adjustment to its January 1, 2020 opening allowance for credit losses on loans of $443 million. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)Includes all adjustments to the ACL, such as changes in the allowance from acquisitions, dispositions, securitizations, FX translation, purchase accounting adjustments, etc.

(4)2020 includes reductions of approximately $4 million related to the transfer to HFS of various real estate loan portfolios. In addition, 2020 includes an increase of approximately $97 million related to FX translation.

(5)2019 includes reductions of approximately $42 million related to the transfer to HFS of various real estate loan portfolios. In addition, 2019 includes an increase of approximately $60 million related to FX translation.

(6)2018 includes reductions of approximately $201 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, which include approximately $91 million related to the transfer of various real estate loan portfolios to HFS. In addition, 2018 includes a reduction of approximately $60 million related to FX translation.

(7)2017 includes reductions of approximately $261 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, which include approximately $106 million related to the transfer of various real estate loan portfolios to HFS. In addition, 2017 includes an increase of approximately $115 million related to FX translation.

(8)2016 includes reductions of approximately $574 million related to the sale or transfer to HFS of various loan portfolios, which include approximately $106 million related to the transfer of various real estate loan portfolios to HFS. In addition, 2016 includes a reduction of approximately $199 million related to FX translation.

(9)December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016 exclude $6.9 billion, $4.1 billion, $3.2 billion, $4.4 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, of loans which are carried at fair value.

(10)2020 corporate ACLUC includes a non-provision transfer of $68 million, representing reserves on performance guarantees. The reserves on these contracts were reclassified out of the ACL on unfunded lending commitments and into other liabilities.

(11)Represents additional credit reserves recorded as Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

(12)Beginning in 2020, under CECL, the ACLL represents management’s estimate of expected credit losses in the portfolio.and troubled debt restructurings. See “Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates” and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements below. Attribution of the ACLL is made for analytical purposes only and the entire ACLL is available to absorb credit losses in the overall portfolio. Prior to 2020, the ACLL represented management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio, as well as probable losses related to large individually evaluated impaired loans and TDRs. See “Superseded Accounting Principles” in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

84

Allowance for Credit Losses on Loans (ACLL)

The following tables detail information on Citi’s ACLL, loans and coverage ratios. The December 31, 2020 table reflects the impact from the January 1, 2020 CECL adoption and the impact from the pandemic. The December 31, 2019 table is presented under the previous accounting standard (see “Superseded Accounting Principles” in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Loans carried at fair value do not have an ACLL and are excluded from the ACLL ratio calculation.

(2)Includes both Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. The $14.7 billion of loan loss reserves represented approximately 53 months of coincident net credit loss coverage. As of December 31, 2020, the North America Citi-branded cards ACLL as a percentage of EOP loans was 10.0% and the North America Citi retail services ACLL as a percentage of EOP loans was 13.6%.

(3)Of the $0.7 billion, approximately $0.3 billion was allocated to North America mortgages in Corporate/Other, including $0.5 billion and $0.2 billion determined in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. Of the $54.9 billion in loans, approximately $53.0 billion and $1.9 billion of the loans were evaluated in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4)Includes mortgages and other retail loans.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Loans carried at fair value do not have an ACLL and are excluded from the ACLL ratio calculation.

(2)Includes both Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. The $7.0 billion of loan loss reserves represented approximately 15 months of coincident net credit loss coverage.

(3)Of the $0.3 billion, nearly all was allocated to North America mortgages in Corporate/Other, including $0.1 billion and $0.2 billion determined in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. Of the $56.2 billion in loans, approximately $54.2 billion and $2.0 billion of the loans were evaluated in accordance with ASC 450-20 and ASC 310-10-35 (troubled debt restructurings), respectively. For additional information, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4)Includes mortgages and other retail loans.

85

The following table details Citi’s corporate credit allowance for credit losses on loans (ACLL) by industry exposure: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Funded exposure excludes $6,840 million of loans at fair value that are not subject to ACLL under the CECL standard.

(2) As of December 31, 2020, the ACLL shown above reflects coverage of 0.5% of funded investment grade exposure and 4.4% of funded non-investment grade exposure.

(3) Excludes $401 million of ACLL associated with approximately $43 billion of funded delinquency-managed private bank exposures at December 31, 2020. Including those reserves and exposures, the total ACLL is 1.42% of total funded exposure, including 0.5% of funded investment grade exposure and 4.4% of funded non-investment grade exposure.

86

Non-Accrual Loans and Assets and Renegotiated Loans

There is a certain amount of overlap among non-accrual loans and assets and renegotiated loans. The following summary provides a general description of each category.

Non-Accrual Loans and Assets:

•Corporate and consumer (including commercial banking) non-accrual status is based on the determination that payment of interest or principal is doubtful.

•A corporate loan may be classified as non-accrual and still be performing under the terms of the loan structure. Non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments. Approximately 59%, 58% and 44% of Citi’s corporate non-accrual loans were performing at December 31, 2020, September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively.

•Consumer non-accrual status is generally based on aging, i.e., the borrower has fallen behind on payments.

•Consumer mortgage loans, other than Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured loans, are classified as non-accrual within 60 days of notification that the borrower has filed for bankruptcy. In addition, home equity loans are classified as non-accrual if the related residential first mortgage loan is 90 days or more past due.

•North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services are not included because, under industry standards, credit card loans accrue interest until such loans are charged off, which typically occurs at 180 days of contractual delinquency.

Renegotiated Loans:

•Includes both corporate and consumer loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR).

•Includes both accrual and non-accrual TDRs.

87

Non-Accrual Loans

The table below summarizes Citigroup’s non-accrual loans as of the periods indicated. Non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments. In situations where Citi reasonably expects that only a portion of the principal owed will ultimately be collected, all payments received are reflected as a reduction of principal and not as interest income. For all other non-accrual loans, cash interest receipts are generally recorded as revenue.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For years prior to 2020, excludes purchased credit-deteriorated loans, as they are generally accreting interest. The carrying value of these loans was $128 million at December 31, 2019, $128 million at December 31, 2018, $167 million at December 31, 2017 and $187 million at December 31, 2016.

(2) Asia includes balances in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

The changes in Citigroup’s non-accrual loans were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

88

Non-Accrual Assets

The table below summarizes Citigroup’s other real estate owned (OREO) assets. OREO is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet within Other assets. This represents the carrying value of all real estate property acquired by foreclosure or other legal proceedings when Citi has taken possession of the collateral:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The ACLL includes the allowance for Citi’s credit card portfolios and purchased distressed loans, while the non-accrual loans exclude credit card balances (with the exception of certain international portfolios) and, prior to 2020, include purchased credit-deteriorated loans as these continue to accrue interest until charge-off.

89

Renegotiated Loans

The following table presents Citi’s loans modified in TDRs:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes $415 million and $472 million of non-accrual loans included in the non-accrual loans table above at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The remaining loans are accruing interest.

(2)In addition to modifications reflected as TDRs at December 31, 2020 and 2019, Citi also modified $47 million and $26 million, respectively, of commercial loans risk rated “Substandard Non-Performing” or worse (asset category defined by banking regulators) in offices outside the U.S. These modifications were not considered TDRs because they did not involve a concession or because they qualified for exemptions from TDR accounting provided by the CARES Act or Interagency Guidance.

(3)Includes $873 million and $814 million of non-accrual loans included in the non-accrual loans table above at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The remaining loans are accruing interest.

Forgone Interest Revenue on Loans(1) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Relates to corporate non-accrual loans, renegotiated loans and consumer loans on which accrual of interest has been suspended. 

(2) Interest revenue in offices outside the U.S. may reflect prevailing local interest rates, including the effects of inflation and monetary correction in certain countries.

90

LIQUIDITY RISK

Overview

Adequate and diverse sources of funding and liquidity are essential to Citi’s businesses. Funding and liquidity risks arise from several factors, many of which are mostly or entirely outside Citi’s control, such as disruptions in the financial markets, changes in key funding sources, credit spreads, changes in Citi’s credit ratings and macroeconomic, geopolitical and other conditions. For additional information, see “Risk Factors—Liquidity Risks” above.

Citi’s funding and liquidity management objectives are aimed at (i) funding its existing asset base, (ii) growing its core businesses, (iii) maintaining sufficient liquidity, structured appropriately, so that Citi can operate under a variety of adverse circumstances, including potential Company-specific and/or market liquidity events in varying durations and severity, and (iv) satisfying regulatory requirements, including, among other things, those related to resolution planning (for additional information, see “Resolution Plan” and “Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)” below). Citigroup’s primary liquidity objectives are established by entity, and in aggregate, across two major categories:

•Citibank (including Citibank Europe plc, Citibank Singapore Ltd. and Citibank (Hong Kong) Ltd.); and

•Citi’s non-bank and other entities, including the parent holding company (Citigroup Inc.), Citi’s primary intermediate holding company (Citicorp LLC), Citi’s broker-dealer subsidiaries (including Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. and Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc.) and other bank and non-bank subsidiaries that are consolidated into Citigroup (including Citibanamex).

At an aggregate Citigroup level, Citi’s goal is to maintain sufficient funding in amount and tenor to fully fund customer assets and to provide an appropriate amount of cash and high-quality liquid assets (as discussed below), even in times of stress, in order to meet its payment obligations as they come due. The liquidity risk management framework provides that in addition to the aggregate requirements, certain entities be self-sufficient or net providers of liquidity, including in conditions established under their designated stress tests.

Citi’s primary sources of funding include (i) deposits via Citi’s bank subsidiaries, which are Citi’s most stable and lowest cost source of long-term funding, (ii) long-term debt (primarily senior and subordinated debt) primarily issued at the parent and certain bank subsidiaries, and (iii) stockholders’ equity. These sources may be supplemented by short-term borrowings, primarily in the form of secured funding transactions.

As referenced above, Citi’s funding and liquidity framework ensures that the tenor of these funding sources is of sufficient term in relation to the tenor of its asset base. The goal of Citi’s asset/liability management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity and tenor in the liability structure relative to the liquidity profile of the assets. This reduces the risk that liabilities will become due before assets mature or are monetized. This excess liquidity is held primarily in the form of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA), as set forth in the table below. 

Citi’s liquidity is managed via a centralized treasury model by Treasury, in conjunction with regional and in-country treasurers with oversight provided by Independent Risk Management and various Asset & Liability Committees (ALCOs) at the Citigroup, region, country and business levels. Pursuant to this approach, Citi’s HQLA is managed with emphasis on asset-liability management and entity-level liquidity adequacy throughout Citi.

The Chief Risk Officer and Citi’s CFO co-chair Citigroup’s ALCO, which includes Citi’s Treasurer and other senior executives. ALCOs, among other things, set the strategy of the liquidity portfolio and monitor its performance. Significant changes to portfolio asset allocations need to be approved by the ALCOs.

Liquidity Monitoring and Measurement

Stress Testing 

Liquidity stress testing is performed for each of Citi’s major entities, operating subsidiaries and/or countries. Stress testing and scenario analyses are intended to quantify the potential impact of an adverse liquidity event on the balance sheet and liquidity position, and to identify viable funding alternatives that can be utilized. These scenarios include assumptions about significant changes in key funding sources, market triggers (such as credit ratings), potential uses of funding and macroeconomic, geopolitical and other conditions. These conditions include expected and stressed market conditions as well as Company-specific events.

Liquidity stress tests are performed to ascertain potential mismatches between liquidity sources and uses over a variety of time horizons and over different stressed conditions. To monitor the liquidity of an entity, these stress tests and potential mismatches are calculated with varying frequencies, with several tests performed daily.

Given the range of potential stresses, Citi maintains contingency funding plans on a consolidated basis and for individual entities. These plans specify a wide range of readily available actions for a variety of adverse market conditions or idiosyncratic stresses.

91

High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: The amounts set forth in the table above are presented on an average basis. For securities, the amounts represent the liquidity value that potentially could be realized and, therefore, exclude any securities that are encumbered and incorporate any haircuts applicable under the U.S. LCR rule. The table above incorporates various restrictions that could limit the transferability of liquidity between legal entities, including Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act.

(1) Foreign government debt includes securities issued or guaranteed by foreign sovereigns, agencies and multilateral development banks. Foreign government debt securities are held largely to support local liquidity requirements and Citi’s local franchises and principally include government bonds from Japan, Mexico, Singapore, South Korea and Hong Kong.

The table above includes average amounts of HQLA held at Citigroup’s operating entities that are eligible for inclusion in the calculation of Citigroup’s consolidated Liquidity Coverage ratio (LCR), pursuant to the U.S. LCR rules. These amounts include the HQLA needed to meet the minimum requirements at these entities and any amounts in excess of these minimums that are assumed to be transferable to other entities within Citigroup. 

 Citigroup’s HQLA increased quarter-over-quarter as of the fourth quarter of 2020, primarily reflecting an increase in average long-term non-bank debt. While deposit growth and a decline in loans increased liquidity at Citibank, a significant amount of this liquidity was assumed not to be transferable to other entities within Citigroup and therefore not included in Citi’s consolidated HQLA. 

As of December 31, 2020, Citigroup had $972 billion of available liquidity resources to support client and business needs, including end-of-period HQLA assets; additional unencumbered securities, including excess liquidity held at bank entities that is non-transferable to other entities within Citigroup; and available assets not already accounted for within Citi’s HQLA to support Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and Federal Reserve Bank discount window borrowing capacity.

Short-Term Liquidity Measurement: Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)

In addition to internal 30-day liquidity stress testing performed for Citi’s major entities, operating subsidiaries and countries, Citi also monitors its liquidity by reference to the LCR.

Generally, the LCR is designed to ensure that banks maintain an adequate level of HQLA to meet liquidity needs under an acute 30-day stress scenario. The LCR is calculated by dividing HQLA by estimated net outflows over a stressed 30-day period, with the net outflows determined by applying prescribed outflow factors to various categories of liabilities, such as deposits, unsecured and secured wholesale borrowings, unused lending commitments and derivatives-related exposures, partially offset by inflows from assets maturing within 30 days. Banks are required to calculate an add-on to address potential maturity mismatches between contractual cash outflows and inflows within the 30-day period in determining the total amount of net outflows. The minimum LCR requirement is 100%.

 The table below details the components of Citi’s LCR calculation and HQLA in excess of net outflows for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: The amounts are presented on an average basis.

As of December 31, 2020, Citi’s average LCR was unchanged sequentially, as Citi’s average HQLA and net outflows increased proportionately.

92

Long-Term Liquidity Measurement: Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)

On October 20, 2020, the U.S. banking agencies adopted a final rule to assess the availability of a bank’s stable funding against a required level. The intended purpose of the final rule is to support the ability of financial institutions to provide financial intermediation to businesses and households across a range of market conditions and reduce the possibility of funding shocks compromising a financial institution’s liquidity position. 

In general, a bank’s available stable funding will include portions of equity, deposits and long-term debt, while its required stable funding will be based on the liquidity characteristics of its assets, derivatives and commitments. Standardized weightings will be required to be applied to the various asset and liabilities classes. The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding will be required to be greater than 100%. 

The final rule becomes effective beginning July 1, 2021 while public disclosure requirements to report the ratio will occur on a semi-annual basis beginning June 30, 2023. Citi expects to be in compliance with the final rule when the rule is effective.

Loans

As part of its funding and liquidity objectives, Citi seeks to fund its existing asset base appropriately as well as maintain sufficient liquidity to grow its GCB and ICG businesses, including its loan portfolio. Citi maintains a diversified portfolio of loans to its consumer and institutional clients. The table below details the average loans, by business and/or segment, and the total end-of-period loans for each of the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes loans in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

As of the fourth quarter of 2020, end-of period loans declined 3% year-over-year and increased 1% quarter-over-quarter. 

On an average basis, loans declined 4% year-over-year and 2% quarter-over-quarter. Excluding the impact of FX translation, average loans also declined 4% year-over-year and 2% sequentially. On this basis, average GCB loans declined 6% year-over-year, primarily reflecting the impact of lower consumer spending in Citi’s cards businesses and higher payments by customers given high levels of liquidity due to fiscal stimulus.

Excluding the impact of FX translation, average ICG loans declined 3% year-over-year. Treasury and trade solutions (TTS) loans declined 10% year-over-year, reflecting softness in underlying trade flows and the continued low level of spend in commercial cards driven by the impact of the pandemic. Average corporate lending loans declined 6%, reflecting net repayments as Citi continued to assist its clients in accessing the capital markets, as well as lower loan demand given more muted economic activity. Average private bank loans increased 6%, largely driven by secured lending to high-net-worth clients, including residential real estate lending. 

Average Corporate/Other loans continued to decline (down 29%), driven by the wind-down of legacy assets. 

Deposits

The table below details the average deposits, by business and/or segment, and the total end-of-period deposits for each of the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Reflects deposits within retail banking.

(2)Includes deposits in certain EMEA countries for all periods presented.

End-of-period deposits increased 20% year-over-year and 1% sequentially. 

As of the fourth quarter of 2020, on an average basis, deposits increased 20% year-over-year and 3% sequentially. Excluding the impact of FX translation, average deposits grew 19% from the prior-year period and 2% sequentially, reflecting continued client engagement as well as the elevated level of liquidity in the financial system. On this basis, average deposits in GCB increased 18%, with strong growth across all regions. 

Excluding the impact of FX translation, average deposits in ICG grew 20% year-over-year, primarily driven by 22% 

93

growth in TTS, as well as continued growth in the private bank and securities services.

Long-Term Debt 

Long-term debt (generally defined as debt with original maturities of one year or more) represents the most significant component of Citi’s funding for the Citigroup parent company and Citi’s non-bank subsidiaries and is a supplementary source of funding for the bank entities. 

Long-term debt is an important funding source due in part to its multiyear contractual maturity structure. The weighted-average maturity of unsecured long-term debt issued by Citigroup and its affiliates (including Citibank) with a remaining life greater than one year was approximately 8.6 years as of December 31, 2020, unchanged from September 30, 2020 and an increase from the prior year. The weighted-average maturity is calculated based on the contractual maturity of each security. For securities that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder, the weighted-average maturity is calculated based on the earliest date an option becomes exercisable.

Citi’s long-term debt outstanding at the Citigroup parent company includes benchmark senior and subordinated debt and what Citi refers to as customer-related debt, consisting of structured notes, such as equity- and credit-linked notes, as well as non-structured notes. Citi’s issuance of customer-related debt is generally driven by customer demand and complements benchmark debt issuance as a source of funding for Citi’s non-bank entities. Citi’s long-term debt at the bank includes bank notes, FHLB advances and securitizations. 

Long-Term Debt Outstanding

The following table sets forth Citi’s end-of-period total long-term debt outstanding for each of the dates indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Amounts represent the current value of long-term debt on Citi’s Consolidated Balance Sheet that, for certain debt instruments, includes consideration of fair value, hedging impacts and unamortized discounts and premiums.

(1)Non-bank includes long-term debt issued to third parties by the parent holding company (Citigroup) and Citi’s non-bank subsidiaries (including broker-dealer subsidiaries) that are consolidated into Citigroup. As of December 31, 2020, non-bank included $56.4 billion of long-term debt issued by Citi’s broker-dealer and other subsidiaries, as well as certain Citigroup consolidated hedging activities.

(2)Local country and other includes debt issued by Citi’s affiliates in support of their local operations. Within non-bank, certain secured financing is also included. Within bank, borrowings under certain U.S. government-sponsored liquidity programs are also included. 

(3)Predominantly credit card securitizations, primarily backed by Citi-branded credit card receivables.

As of the fourth quarter of 2020, Citi’s total long-term debt outstanding increased year-over-year, primarily driven by the issuance of unsecured benchmark senior debt and customer-related debt at the non-bank entities, as well as an increase in FHLB borrowings at the bank, partially offset by declines in unsecured benchmark senior debt and securitizations at the bank. Sequentially, long-term debt outstanding decreased, driven primarily by a decline in FHLB borrowings at the bank and local country and other debt at the non-bank, partially offset by higher customer-related debt at the non-bank.

As part of its liability management, Citi has considered, and may continue to consider, opportunities to redeem or repurchase its long-term debt pursuant to open market purchases, tender offers or other means. Such redemptions and repurchases help reduce Citi’s overall funding costs. During 2020, Citi redeemed or repurchased $28.9 billion of its outstanding long-term debt. 

94

Long-Term Debt Issuances and Maturities

The table below details Citi’s long-term debt issuances and maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during the periods presented:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table below shows Citi’s aggregate long-term debt maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) in 2020, as well as its aggregate expected remaining long-term debt maturities by year as of December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

95

Resolution Plan

Citi is required under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) and the rules promulgated by the FDIC and FRB to periodically submit a plan for Citi’s rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure. For additional information on Citi’s resolution plan submissions, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” above. Citigroup’s preferred resolution strategy is “single point of entry” under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

Under Citi’s preferred “single point of entry” resolution plan strategy, only Citigroup, the parent holding company, would enter into bankruptcy, while Citigroup’s material legal entities (as defined in the public section of its 2019 resolution plan, which can be found on the FRB’s and FDIC’s websites) would remain operational outside of any resolution or insolvency proceedings. Citigroup’s resolution plan has been designed to minimize the risk of systemic impact to the U.S. and global financial systems, while maximizing the value of the bankruptcy estate for the benefit of Citigroup’s creditors, including its unsecured long-term debt holders. 

In addition, in line with the Federal Reserve’s final total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) rule, Citigroup believes it has developed the resolution plan so that Citigroup’s shareholders and unsecured creditors—including its unsecured long-term debt holders—bear any losses resulting from Citigroup’s bankruptcy. Accordingly, any value realized by holders of its unsecured long-term debt may not be sufficient to repay the amounts owed to such debt holders in the event of a bankruptcy or other resolution proceeding of Citigroup.

The FDIC has also indicated that it was developing a single point of entry strategy to implement the Orderly Liquidation Authority under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, which provides the FDIC with the ability to resolve a firm when it is determined that bankruptcy would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the U.S.

As previously disclosed, in response to feedback received from the Federal Reserve and FDIC, Citigroup took the following actions:

(i)Citicorp LLC (Citicorp), an existing wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup, was established as an intermediate holding company (an IHC) for certain of Citigroup’s operating material legal entities;

(ii)Citigroup executed an inter-affiliate agreement with Citicorp, Citigroup’s operating material legal entities and certain other affiliated entities pursuant to which Citicorp is required to provide liquidity and capital support to Citigroup’s operating material legal entities in the event Citigroup were to enter bankruptcy proceedings (Citi Support Agreement); 

(iii)pursuant to the Citi Support Agreement:

•Citigroup made an initial contribution of assets, including certain high-quality liquid assets and inter-affiliate loans (Contributable Assets), to Citicorp, and Citicorp became the business-as-usual funding vehicle for Citigroup’s operating material legal entities;

•Citigroup will be obligated to continue to transfer Contributable Assets to Citicorp over time, subject to certain amounts retained by Citigroup to, among other things, meet Citigroup’s near-term cash needs; 

•in the event of a Citigroup bankruptcy, Citigroup will be required to contribute most of its remaining assets to Citicorp; and

(iv)the obligations of both Citigroup and Citicorp under the Citi Support Agreement, as well as the Contributable Assets, are secured pursuant to a security agreement.

The Citi Support Agreement provides two mechanisms, besides Citicorp’s issuing of dividends to Citigroup, pursuant to which Citicorp will be required to transfer cash to Citigroup during business as usual so that Citigroup can fund its debt service as well as other operating needs: (i) one or more funding notes issued by Citicorp to Citigroup and (ii) a committed line of credit under which Citicorp may make loans to Citigroup. 

On December 17, 2019, the FRB and FDIC issued feedback on the resolution plans filed on July 1, 2019 by the eight U.S. GSIBs, including Citi. The FRB and FDIC identified one shortcoming, but no deficiencies, in Citi’s resolution plan relating to governance mechanisms. On July 1, 2020, the FRB and FDIC provided information to the eight largest domestic banking organizations, including Citi, required to be included in the targeted resolution plans due on July 1, 2021.

Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)

U.S. GSIBs are required to maintain minimum levels of TLAC and eligible LTD, each set by reference to the GSIB’s consolidated risk-weighted assets (RWA) and total leverage exposure. The intended purpose of the requirements is to facilitate the orderly resolution of U.S. GSIBs under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act. For additional information, including Citi’s TLAC and LTD amounts and ratios, see “Capital Resources—Current Regulatory Capital Standards” and “Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” above. 

96

SECURED FUNDING TRANSACTIONS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

Citi supplements its primary sources of funding with short-term financings that generally include (i) secured funding transactions consisting of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, i.e., repos, and (ii) to a lesser extent, short-term borrowings consisting of commercial paper and borrowings from the FHLB and other market participants. 

Secured Funding Transactions

Secured funding is primarily accessed through Citi’s broker-dealer subsidiaries to fund efficiently both (i) secured lending activity and (ii) a portion of the securities inventory held in the context of market making and customer activities. Citi also executes a smaller portion of its secured funding transactions through its bank entities, which are typically collateralized by government debt securities. Generally, daily changes in the level of Citi’s secured funding are primarily due to fluctuations in secured lending activity in the matched book (as described below) and securities inventory. 

Secured funding of $200 billion as of December 31, 2020 increased 20% from the prior year and declined 4% from the prior quarter. Excluding the impact of FX translation, secured funding decreased 16% from the prior year and declined 7% sequentially, both driven by normal business activity. Average balances for secured funding were $227 billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2020.

The portion of secured funding in the broker-dealer subsidiaries that funds secured lending is commonly referred to as “matched book” activity. The majority of this activity is secured by high-quality liquid securities such as U.S. Treasury 

securities, U.S. agency securities and foreign government debt 

securities. Other secured funding is secured by less liquid securities, including equity securities, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities, the tenor of which is generally equal to or longer than the tenor of the corresponding matched book assets.

The remainder of the secured funding activity in the broker-dealer subsidiaries serves to fund securities inventory held in the context of market making and customer activities. To maintain reliable funding under a wide range of market conditions, including under periods of stress, Citi manages these activities by taking into consideration the quality of the underlying collateral and establishing minimum required funding tenors. The weighted average maturity of Citi’s secured funding of less liquid securities inventory was greater than 110 days as of December 31, 2020.

Citi manages the risks in its secured funding by conducting daily stress tests to account for changes in capacity, tenor, haircut, collateral profile and client actions. In addition, Citi maintains counterparty diversification by establishing concentration triggers and assessing counterparty reliability and stability under stress. Citi generally sources secured funding from more than 150 counterparties.

Short-Term Borrowings

Citi’s short-term borrowings of $30 billion as of the fourth quarter of 2020 decreased 34% year-over-year and 21% sequentially, primarily driven by a decline in FHLB advances (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Citigroup’s and its affiliates’ outstanding short-term borrowings).

Overall Short-Term Borrowings 

The following table contains the year-end, average and maximum month-end amounts for the following respective short-term borrowings categories at the end of each of the three prior years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Original maturities of less than one year.

(2) Other borrowings include commercial paper, brokerage payables and borrowings from the FHLB and other market participants. See “Average Balances and Interest Rates” below.

(3) Interest rates and amounts include the effects of risk management activities associated with the respective liability categories.

(4) Average volumes of securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reported net pursuant to ASC 210-20-45; average rates exclude the impact of ASC 210-20-45.

(5) Monthly or quarterly averages have been used by certain subsidiaries where daily averages are unavailable.

(6) Average rates reflect prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary correction in certain countries.

97

CREDIT RATINGS

Citigroup’s funding and liquidity, funding capacity, ability to access capital markets and other sources of funds, the cost of these funds and its ability to maintain certain deposits are partially dependent on its credit ratings. 

The table below shows the ratings for Citigroup and Citibank as of December 31, 2020. While not included in the table below, the long-term and short-term ratings of Citigroup Global Markets Holding Inc. (CGMHI) were BBB+/A-2 at Standard & Poor’s and A/F1 at Fitch as of December 31, 2020.

Ratings as of December 31, 2020

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Potential Impacts of Ratings Downgrades

Ratings downgrades by Moody’s, Fitch or S&P could negatively impact Citigroup’s and/or Citibank’s funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral requirements.

The following information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the potential funding and liquidity impact to Citigroup and Citibank of a hypothetical simultaneous 

ratings downgrade across all three major rating agencies. This analysis is subject to certain estimates, estimation methodologies, judgments and uncertainties. Uncertainties include potential ratings limitations that certain entities may have with respect to permissible counterparties, as well as general subjective counterparty behavior. For example, certain corporate customers and markets counterparties could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit transactions in certain contracts or market instruments with Citi. Changes in counterparty behavior could impact Citi’s funding and liquidity, as well as the results of operations of certain of its businesses. The actual impact to Citigroup or Citibank is unpredictable and may differ materially from the potential funding and liquidity impacts described below. For additional information on the impact of credit rating changes on Citi and its applicable subsidiaries, see “Risk Factors—Liquidity Risks” above.

Citigroup Inc. and Citibank—Potential Derivative Triggers

As of December 31, 2020, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citigroup Inc. across all three major rating agencies could impact Citigroup’s funding and liquidity due to derivative triggers by approximately $0.6 billion, unchanged from September 30, 2020. Other funding sources, such as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.

As of December 31, 2020, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citibank across all three major rating agencies could impact Citibank’s funding and liquidity due to derivative triggers by approximately $0.4 billion, unchanged from September 30, 2020. Other funding sources, such as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.

In total, as of December 31, 2020, Citi estimates that a one-notch downgrade of Citigroup and Citibank across all three major rating agencies could result in increased aggregate cash obligations and collateral requirements of approximately $1.0 billion, unchanged from September 30, 2020 (see also Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As detailed under “High-Quality Liquid Assets” above, Citigroup has various liquidity resources available to its bank and non-bank entities in part as a contingency for the potential events described above.

In addition, a broad range of mitigating actions are currently included in Citigroup’s and Citibank’s contingency funding plans. For Citigroup, these mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, accessing surplus funding capacity from existing clients, tailoring levels of secured lending and adjusting the size of select trading books and collateralized borrowings at certain Citibank subsidiaries. Mitigating actions available to Citibank include, but are not limited to, selling or financing highly liquid government securities, tailoring levels of secured lending, adjusting the size of select trading assets, reducing loan originations and renewals, raising additional deposits or borrowing from the FHLB or central banks. Citi believes these mitigating actions could substantially reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above.

98

Citibank—Additional Potential Impacts

In addition to the above derivative triggers, Citi believes that a potential downgrade of Citibank’s senior debt/long-term rating across any of the three major rating agencies could also have an adverse impact on the commercial paper/short-term rating of Citibank. Citibank has provided liquidity commitments to consolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits, primarily in the form of asset purchase agreements. As of December 31, 2020, Citibank had liquidity commitments of approximately $10.0 billion to consolidated asset-backed commercial paper conduits, compared to $11.4 billion as of September 30, 2020 (for additional information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

In addition to the above-referenced liquidity resources of certain Citibank entities, Citibank could reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above through mitigating actions, including repricing or reducing certain commitments to commercial paper conduits. In the event of the potential downgrades described above, Citi believes that certain corporate customers could re-evaluate their deposit relationships with Citibank. This re-evaluation could result in clients adjusting their discretionary deposit levels or changing their depository institution, which could potentially reduce certain deposit levels at Citibank. However, Citi could choose to adjust pricing, offer alternative deposit products to its existing customers or seek to attract deposits from new customers, in addition to the mitigating actions referenced above.

99

MARKET RISK

OVERVIEW

Market risk is the potential for losses arising from changes in the value of Citi’s assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and credit spreads, as well as their implied volatilities. Market risk emanates from both Citi’s trading and non-trading portfolios. For additional information on market risk and market risk management, see “Risk Factors” above.

Each business is required to establish, with approval from Citi’s market risk management, a market risk limit framework for identified risk factors that clearly defines approved risk profiles and is within the parameters of Citi’s overall risk appetite. These limits are monitored by the Risk organization, including various regional, legal entity and business Risk Management committees, Citi’s country and business Asset & Liability Committees and the Citigroup Risk Management and Asset & Liability Committees. In all cases, the businesses are ultimately responsible for the market risks taken and for remaining within their defined limits.

MARKET RISK OF NON-TRADING PORTFOLIOS 

Market risk from non-trading portfolios stems from the potential impact of changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates on Citi’s net interest revenues, the changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) from its debt securities portfolios and capital invested in foreign currencies. 

Net Interest Revenue at Risk

Net interest revenue, for interest rate exposure purposes, is the difference between the yield earned on the non-trading portfolio assets (including customer loans) and the rate paid on the liabilities (including customer deposits or company borrowings). Net interest revenue is affected by changes in the level of interest rates, as well as the amounts and mix of assets and liabilities, and the timing of contractual and assumed repricing of assets and liabilities to reflect market rates.

Citi’s principal measure of risk to net interest revenue is interest rate exposure (IRE). IRE measures the change in expected net interest revenue in each currency resulting solely from unanticipated changes in forward interest rates. 

 Citi’s estimated IRE incorporates various assumptions including prepayment rates on loans, customer behavior and the impact of pricing decisions. For example, in rising interest rate scenarios, portions of the deposit portfolio may be assumed to experience rate increases that are less than the change in market interest rates. In declining interest rate scenarios, it is assumed that mortgage portfolios experience higher prepayment rates. Citi’s estimated IRE below assumes that its businesses and/or Citi Treasury make no additional changes in balances or positioning in response to the unanticipated rate changes.

In order to manage changes in interest rates effectively, Citi may modify pricing on new customer loans and deposits, purchase fixed-rate securities, issue debt that is either fixed or floating or enter into derivative transactions that have the opposite risk exposures. Citi regularly assesses the viability of 

these and other strategies to reduce its interest rate risks and implements such strategies when it believes those actions are prudent. 

Citi manages interest rate risk as a consolidated Company-wide position. Citi’s client-facing businesses create interest rate-sensitive positions, including loans and deposits, as part of their ongoing activities. Citi Treasury aggregates these risk positions and manages them centrally. Operating within established limits, Citi Treasury makes positioning decisions and uses tools, such as Citi’s investment securities portfolio, company-issued debt and interest rate derivatives, to target the desired risk profile. Changes in Citi’s interest rate risk position reflect the accumulated changes in all non-trading assets and liabilities, with potentially large and offsetting impacts, as well as in Citi Treasury’s positioning decisions.

Citigroup employs additional measurements, including stress testing the impact of non-linear interest rate movements on the value of the balance sheet, and the analysis of portfolio duration and volatility, particularly as they relate to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and the potential impact of the change in the spread between different market indices.

Interest Rate Risk of Investment Portfolios—Impact 

on AOCI

Citi also measures the potential impacts of changes in interest rates on the value of its AOCI, which can in turn impact Citi’s common equity and tangible common equity. This will impact Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 and other regulatory capital ratios. Citi’s goal is to benefit from an increase in the market level of interest rates, while limiting the impact of changes in AOCI on its regulatory capital position.

AOCI at risk is managed as part of the Company-wide interest rate risk position. AOCI at risk considers potential changes in AOCI (and the corresponding impact on the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio) relative to Citi’s capital generation capacity.

100

The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi’s net interest revenue, AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented basis), each assuming an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Certain trading-oriented businesses within Citi have accrual-accounted positions that are excluded from the estimated impact to net interest revenue in the table, since these exposures are managed economically in combination with mark-to-market positions. The U.S. dollar interest rate exposure associated with these businesses was $(89) million for a 100 bps instantaneous increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2020.

(2)Includes the effect of changes in interest rates on AOCI related to investment securities, cash flow hedges and pension liability adjustments.

The year-over-year increase in the estimated impact to net interest revenue primarily reflected changes in Citi’s balance sheet composition and Citi Treasury positioning. The year-over-year changes in the estimated impact to AOCI and the Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio primarily reflected the impact of the composition of Citi Treasury’s investment and derivatives portfolio.

In the event of a parallel instantaneous 100 bps increase in interest rates, Citi expects that the negative impact to AOCI would be offset in shareholders’ equity through the expected recovery of the impact on AOCI through accretion of Citi’s investment portfolio over a period of time. As of December 31, 2020, Citi expects that the negative $5.6 billion impact to AOCI in such a scenario could potentially be offset over approximately 31 months.

The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi’s net interest revenue, AOCI and the Common Equity 

Tier 1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented basis) under five different changes in interest rate scenarios for the U.S. dollar and Citi’s other currencies. The 100 bps downward rate scenarios are impacted by the low level of interest rates in several countries and the assumption that market interest rates, as well as rates paid to depositors and charged to borrowers, do not fall below zero (i.e., the “flooring assumption”). The rate scenarios are also impacted by convexity related to mortgage products.

In addition, in the table below, the magnitude of the impact to Citi’s net interest revenue and AOCI is greater under Scenario 2 as compared to Scenario 3. This is because the combination of changes to Citi’s investment portfolio, partially offset by changes related to Citi’s pension liabilities, results in a net position that is more sensitive to rates at shorter- and intermediate-term maturities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Each scenario assumes that the rate change will occur instantaneously. Changes in interest rates for maturities between the overnight rate and the 10-year rate are interpolated. 

(1)Includes the effect of changes in interest rates on AOCI related to investment securities, cash flow hedges and pension liability adjustments.

101

Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates—Impacts on AOCI 

and Capital

As of December 31, 2020, Citi estimates that an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 5% appreciation of the U.S. dollar against all of the other currencies in which Citi has invested capital could reduce Citi’s tangible common equity (TCE) by approximately $1.7 billion, or 1.0%, as a result of changes to Citi’s foreign currency translation adjustment in AOCI, net of hedges. This impact would be primarily due to changes in the value of the Mexican peso, Euro, Australian dollar and Singapore dollar.

This impact is also before any mitigating actions Citi may take, including ongoing management of its foreign currency translation exposure. Specifically, as currency movements change the value of Citi’s net investments in foreign currency-denominated capital, these movements also change the value of Citi’s risk-weighted assets denominated in those currencies. This, coupled with Citi’s foreign currency hedging strategies, such as foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and other currency hedging instruments, lessens the impact of foreign currency movements on Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio. Changes in these hedging strategies, as well as hedging costs, divestitures and tax impacts, can further affect the actual impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on Citi’s capital as compared to an unanticipated parallel shock, as described above.

The effect of Citi’s ongoing management strategies with respect to changes in foreign exchange rates, and the impact of these changes on Citi’s TCE and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio, are shown in the table below. For additional information on the changes in AOCI, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) FX spot rate change is a weighted average based on Citi’s quarterly average GAAP capital exposure to foreign countries.

102

Interest Revenue/Expense and Net Interest Margin (NIM)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: All interest expense amounts include FDIC, as well as other similar deposit insurance assessments outside of the U.S. 

(1)Net interest revenue includes the taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%) of $196 million, $208 million and $254 for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

(2)Interest expense associated with certain hybrid financial instruments, which are classified as Long-term debt and accounted for at fair value, is reported together

 with any changes in fair value as part of Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income and is therefore not reflected in Interest expense in the 

 table above.

(3) The average rate on interest revenue and net interest margin reflects the taxable equivalent gross-up adjustment. See footnote 1 above.

(4) Citi’s net interest margin (NIM) is calculated by dividing net interest revenue by average interest-earning assets.

103

Non-ICG Markets Net Interest Revenue 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Net interest revenue includes the taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%) of $196 million, $208 million and $254 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

Citi’s net interest revenue (NIR) in the fourth quarter of 2020 decreased 13% to $10.5 billion (also $10.5 billion on a taxable equivalent basis) versus the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of FX translation, NIR decreased year-over-year by approximately $1.3 billion. The decrease was primarily related to a decline of approximately $1.5 billion in non-ICG Markets NIR, partially offset by an approximate $130 million increase in ICG Markets (fixed income markets and equity markets) NIR. The decrease in non-ICG Markets NIR primarily reflected lower interest rates and lower loan balances across institutional and consumer businesses (for additional information, see “Liquidity Risk—Loans” above). Citi’s NIM was 2.00% on a taxable equivalent basis in the fourth quarter of 2020, a decrease of three basis points from the prior quarter, reflecting lower NIR and balance sheet expansion due to strong deposit growth. 

Citi’s NIR for the full year 2020 decreased 8% to $43.5 billion ($43.7 billion on a taxable equivalent basis) versus the prior year. Excluding the impact of FX translation, NIR decreased 6%, or approximately $3.0 billion. The decrease was primarily related to a decline of $4.1 billion in non-ICG Markets NIR, partially offset by an increase of $1.1 billion in ICG Markets NIR. The decrease in non-ICG Markets NIR was primarily driven by lower interest rates, as well as lower loan balances. On a full-year basis, Citi’s NIM was 2.16% on a taxable equivalent basis, compared to 2.65% in 2019. 

Citi’s ICG Markets NIR and non-ICG Markets NIR are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes presentation of these measures provides a meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its lending, investing and deposit-raising businesses.

104

This page intentionally left blank.

105

Additional Interest Rate Details

Average Balances and Interest Rates—Assets(1)(2)(3)

Taxable Equivalent Basis

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net interest revenue includes the taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%) of $196 million, $208 million and $254 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(2)Interest rates and amounts include the effects of risk management activities associated with the respective asset categories.

(3)Monthly or quarterly averages have been used by certain subsidiaries where daily averages are unavailable.

(4)Average rates reflect prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.

(5)Average volumes of securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell are reported net pursuant to ASC 210-20-45. However, Interest revenue excludes the impact of ASC 210-20-45.

(6)The fair value carrying amounts of derivative contracts are reported net, pursuant to ASC 815-10-45, in Non-interest-earning assets and Other non-interest-bearing liabilities.

(7)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.

(8)Includes cash-basis loans.

(9)Includes Brokerage receivables.

106

Average Balances and Interest Rates—Liabilities and Equity, and Net Interest Revenue(1)(2)(3)

Taxable Equivalent Basis

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net interest revenue includes the taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio (based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%) of $196 million, $208 million and $254 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(2)Interest rates and amounts include the effects of risk management activities associated with the respective liability categories.

(3)Monthly or quarterly averages have been used by certain subsidiaries where daily averages are unavailable.

(4)Consists of other time deposits and savings deposits. Savings deposits are composed of insured money market accounts, NOW accounts and other savings deposits. The interest expense on savings deposits includes FDIC deposit insurance assessments.

(5)Average rates reflect prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.

(6)Average volumes of securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reported net pursuant to ASC 210-20-45. However, Interest expense excludes the impact of ASC 210-20-45.

(7)The fair value carrying amounts of derivative contracts are reported net, pursuant to ASC 815-10-45, in Non-interest-earning assets and Other non-interest-bearing liabilities.

107

(8)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.

(9)Includes Brokerage payables.

(10)Excludes hybrid financial instruments and beneficial interests in consolidated VIEs that are classified as Long-term debt, as the changes in fair value for these obligations are recorded in Principal transactions.

(11)Includes allocations for capital and funding costs based on the location of the asset.

Analysis of Changes in Interest Revenue(1)(2)(3)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio, based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, are included in this presentation.

(2)Rate/volume variance is allocated based on the percentage relationship of changes in volume and changes in rate to the total net change.

(3)Changes in average rates reflect changes in prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.

(4)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.

(5)Includes cash-basis loans.

(6)Includes Brokerage receivables.

108

Analysis of Changes in Interest Expense and Net Interest Revenue(1)(2)(3)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The taxable equivalent adjustments related to the tax-exempt bond portfolio, based on the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, are included in this presentation.

(2)Rate/volume variance is allocated based on the percentage relationship of changes in volume and changes in rate to the total net change.

(3)Changes in average rates reflect changes in prevailing local interest rates, including inflationary effects and monetary corrections in certain countries.

(4)Interest expense on Trading account liabilities of ICG is reported as a reduction of Interest revenue. Interest revenue and Interest expense on cash collateral positions are reported in interest on Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities, respectively.

(5)Includes Brokerage payables.

109

Market Risk of Trading Portfolios

Trading portfolios include positions resulting from market-making activities, hedges of certain available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities, the CVA relating to derivative counterparties and all associated hedges, fair value option loans and hedges of the loan portfolio within capital markets origination within ICG.

The market risk of Citi’s trading portfolios is monitored using a combination of quantitative and qualitative measures, including, but not limited to:

•factor sensitivities; 

•value at risk (VAR); and 

•stress testing.

Each trading portfolio across Citi’s businesses has its own market risk limit framework encompassing these measures and other controls, including trading mandates, new product approval, permitted product lists and pre-trade approval for larger, more complex and less liquid transactions.

The following chart of total daily trading-related revenue (loss) captures trading volatility and shows the number of days in which revenues for Citi’s trading businesses fell within particular ranges. Trading-related revenue includes trading, net interest and other revenue associated with Citi’s trading businesses. It excludes DVA, FVA and CVA adjustments incurred due to changes in the credit quality of counterparties, as well as any associated hedges of that CVA. In addition, it excludes fees and other revenue associated with capital markets origination activities. Trading-related revenues are driven by both customer flows and the changes in valuation of the trading inventory. As shown in the chart below, positive trading-related revenue was achieved for 97.7% of the trading days in 2020.

Daily Trading-Related Revenue (Loss)(1)—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2020

In millions of dollars

(1) Reflects the effects of asymmetrical accounting for economic hedges of certain AFS debt securities. Specifically, the change in the fair value of hedging derivatives is included in trading-related revenue, while the offsetting change in the fair value of hedged AFS debt securities is included in AOCI and not reflected above.

110

Factor Sensitivities

Factor sensitivities are expressed as the change in the value of a position for a defined change in a market risk factor, such as a change in the value of a U.S. Treasury bill for a one-basis-point change in interest rates. Citi’s market risk management, within the Risk organization, works to ensure that factor sensitivities are calculated, monitored and limited for all material risks taken in the trading portfolios.

Value at Risk (VAR)

VAR estimates, at a 99% confidence level, the potential decline in the value of a position or a portfolio under normal market conditions assuming a one-day holding period. VAR statistics, which are based on historical data, can be materially different across firms due to differences in portfolio composition, differences in VAR methodologies and differences in model parameters. As a result, Citi believes VAR statistics can be used more effectively as indicators of trends in risk-taking within a firm, rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms.

Citi uses a single, independently approved Monte Carlo simulation VAR model (see “VAR Model Review and Validation” below), which has been designed to capture material risk sensitivities (such as first- and second-order sensitivities of positions to changes in market prices) of various asset classes/risk types (such as interest rate, credit 

spread, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risks). Citi’s VAR includes positions that are measured at fair value; it does not include investment securities classified as AFS or HTM. For information on these securities, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Citi believes its VAR model is conservatively calibrated to incorporate fat-tail scaling and the greater of short-term (approximately the most recent month) and long-term (three years) market volatility. The Monte Carlo simulation involves approximately 450,000 market factors, making use of approximately 350,000 time series, with sensitivities updated daily, volatility parameters updated intra-monthly and correlation parameters updated monthly. The conservative features of the VAR calibration contribute an approximate 32% add-on to what would be a VAR estimated under the assumption of stable and perfectly, normally distributed markets. 

As set forth in the table below, Citi’s average trading VAR increased from 2019 to 2020, mainly due to significant market volatility during the first half of 2020 across all asset classes, driven by macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Citi’s average trading and credit portfolio VAR also increased in 2020, primarily due to the higher market volatility, increased hedging activity and changes in portfolio composition.

Year-end and Average Trading VAR and Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Covariance adjustment (also known as diversification benefit) equals the difference between the total VAR and the sum of the VARs tied to each risk type. The benefit reflects the fact that the risks within individual and across risk types are not perfectly correlated and, consequently, the total VAR on a given day will be lower than the sum of the VARs relating to each risk type. The determination of the primary drivers of changes to the covariance adjustment is made by an examination of the impact of both model parameter and position changes. 

(2) The total trading VAR includes mark-to-market and certain fair value option trading positions in ICG, with the exception of hedges to the loan portfolio, fair value option loans and all CVA exposures. Available-for-sale and accrual exposures are not included.

(3) The specific risk-only component represents the level of equity and fixed income issuer-specific risk embedded in VAR. 

(4) The credit portfolio is composed of mark-to-market positions associated with non-trading business units including Citi Treasury, the CVA relating to derivative counterparties and all associated CVA hedges. FVA and DVA are not included. The credit portfolio also includes hedges to the loan portfolio, fair value option loans and hedges to the leveraged finance pipeline within capital markets origination in ICG.

111

The table below provides the range of market factor VARs associated with Citi’s total trading VAR, inclusive of specific risk:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: No covariance adjustment can be inferred from the above table as the high and low for each market factor will be from different close-of-business dates.

The following table provides the VAR for ICG, excluding the CVA relating to derivative counterparties, hedges of CVA, fair value option loans and hedges to the loan portfolio:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

VAR Model Review and Validation

Generally, Citi’s VAR review and model validation process entails reviewing the model framework, major assumptions and implementation of the mathematical algorithm. In addition, product specific back-testing on portfolios is

periodically completed as part of the ongoing model performance monitoring process and reviewed with Citi’s U.S. banking regulators. Furthermore, Regulatory VAR back-testing (as described below) is performed against buy-and-hold profit and loss on a monthly basis for multiple sub-portfolios across the organization (trading desk level, ICG business segment and Citigroup) and the results are shared with U.S. banking regulators.

Material VAR model and assumption changes must be independently validated within Citi’s risk management organization. All model changes, including those for the VAR model, are validated by the model validation group within Citi’s Model Risk Management. In the event of significant model changes, parallel model runs are undertaken prior to implementation. In addition, significant model and assumption changes are subject to the periodic reviews and approval by Citi’s U.S. banking regulators.

Citi uses the same independently validated VAR model for both Regulatory VAR and Risk Management VAR (i.e., total trading and total trading and credit portfolios VARs) and, as such, the model review and validation process for both purposes is as described above.

Regulatory VAR, which is calculated in accordance with Basel III, differs from Risk Management VAR due to the fact that certain positions included in Risk Management VAR are not eligible for market risk treatment in Regulatory VAR. The composition of Risk Management VAR is discussed under 

“Value at Risk” above. The applicability of the VAR model for positions eligible for market risk treatment under U.S. regulatory capital rules is periodically reviewed and approved by Citi’s U.S. banking regulators.

In accordance with Basel III, Regulatory VAR includes all trading book-covered positions and all foreign exchange and commodity exposures. Pursuant to Basel III, Regulatory VAR excludes positions that fail to meet the intent and ability to trade requirements and are therefore classified as non-trading book and categories of exposures that are specifically excluded as covered positions. Regulatory VAR excludes CVA on derivative instruments and DVA on Citi’s own fair value option liabilities. CVA hedges are excluded from Regulatory VAR and included in credit risk-weighted assets as computed under the Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets.

Regulatory VAR Back-Testing

In accordance with Basel III, Citi is required to perform back-testing to evaluate the effectiveness of its Regulatory VAR model. Regulatory VAR back-testing is the process in which the daily one-day VAR, at a 99% confidence interval, is compared to the buy-and-hold profit and loss (i.e., the profit and loss impact if the portfolio is held constant at the end of the day and re-priced the following day). Buy-and-hold profit and loss represents the daily mark-to-market profit and loss attributable to price movements in covered positions from the close of the previous business day. Buy-and-hold profit and loss excludes realized trading revenue, net interest, fees and commissions, intra-day trading profit and loss and changes in reserves.

Based on a 99% confidence level, Citi would expect two to three days in any one year when buy-and-hold losses exceed the Regulatory VAR. Given the conservative calibration of Citi’s VAR model (as a result of taking the greater of short- and long-term volatilities and fat-tail scaling of volatilities), Citi would expect fewer exceptions under normal and stable market conditions. Periods of unstable market conditions could increase the number of back-testing exceptions.

112

The following graph shows the daily buy-and-hold profit and loss associated with Citi’s covered positions compared to Citi’s one-day Regulatory VAR during 2020. As of December 31, 2020, four back-testing exceptions were observed at the Citigroup level. These exceptions occurred in March and were due to losses across multiple businesses during the onset of the pandemic-related volatility.

The difference between the 65.26% of days with buy-and-hold gains for Regulatory VAR back-testing and the 97.7% of days with trading, net interest and other revenue associated with Citi’s trading businesses, shown in the histogram of daily trading-related revenue below, reflects, among other things, that a significant portion of Citi’s trading-related revenue is not generated from daily price movements on these positions and exposures, as well as differences in the portfolio composition of Regulatory VAR and Risk Management VAR.

Regulatory Trading VAR and Associated Buy-and-Hold Profit and Loss(1)—12 Months ended December 31, 2020

In millions of dollars

(1) Buy-and-hold profit and loss, as defined by the banking regulators under Basel III, represents the daily mark-to-market revenue movement attributable to the trading position from the close of the previous business day. Buy-and-hold profit and loss excludes realized trading revenue and net interest intra-day trading profit and loss on new and terminated trades, as well as changes in reserves. Therefore, it is not comparable to the trading-related revenue presented in the chart of daily trading-related revenue above.

113

Stress Testing

Citi performs market risk stress testing on a regular basis to estimate the impact of extreme market movements. It is performed on individual positions and trading portfolios, as well as in aggregate, inclusive of multiple trading portfolios. Citi’s market risk management, after consultations with the businesses, develops both systemic and specific stress scenarios, reviews the output of periodic stress testing exercises and uses the information to assess the ongoing appropriateness of exposure levels and limits. Citi uses two complementary approaches to market risk stress testing across all major risk factors (i.e., equity, foreign exchange, commodity, interest rate and credit spreads): top-down systemic stresses and bottom-up business-specific stresses. Systemic stresses are designed to quantify the potential impact of extreme market movements on an institution-wide basis, and are constructed using both historical periods of market stress and projections of adverse economic scenarios. Business-specific stresses are designed to probe the risks of particular portfolios and market segments, especially those risks that are not fully captured in VAR and systemic stresses.

The systemic stress scenarios and business-specific stress scenarios at Citi are used in several reports reviewed by senior management and also to calculate internal risk capital for trading market risk. In general, changes in market values are defined over a one-year horizon. For the most liquid positions and market factors, changes in market values are defined over a shorter two-month horizon. The limited set of positions and market factors whose market value changes are defined over a two-month horizon are those that in management’s judgment have historically remained very liquid during financial crises, even as the trading liquidity of most other positions and market factors materially declined.

114

OPERATIONAL RISK

Overview

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. This includes legal risk, which is the risk of loss (including litigation costs, settlements, and regulatory fines) resulting from the failure of Citi to comply with laws, regulations, prudent ethical standards, and contractual obligations in any aspect of its businesses, but excludes strategic and reputation risks. Citi also recognizes the impact of operational risk on the reputation risk associated with Citi’s business activities. 

Operational risk is inherent in Citi’s global business activities, as well as related support functions, and can result in losses. Citi maintains a comprehensive firm-wide risk taxonomy to classify operational risks that it faces using standardized definitions across the firm’s Operational Risk Management Framework (see discussion below). This taxonomy also supports regulatory requirements and expectations inclusive of those related to U.S. Basel III capital requirements, CCAR process and heightened standards under U.S. banking requirements. 

Citi manages operational risk consistent with the overall framework described in “Managing Global Risk—Overview” above. Citi’s goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels relative to the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, its capital and liquidity and the competitive, economic and regulatory environment. This includes effectively managing operational risk and maintaining or reducing operational risk exposures within Citi’s operational risk appetite.

To anticipate, mitigate and control operational risk, Citi’s Independent Operational Risk Management group has established a global-Operational Risk Management Framework with policies and practices for identification, measurement, monitoring, mitigating, and reporting operational risks and the overall operating effectiveness of the internal control environment. As part of this framework, Citi has defined its operational risk appetite and established a manager’s control assessment (MCA) process for self-identification of significant operational risks, assessment of the performance of key controls and mitigation of residual risk above acceptable levels. 

Each major business segment must implement operational risk processes consistent with the requirements of this framework. This includes:

•Understanding the operational risks they are exposed to;

•designing controls to mitigate identified risks;

•establishing key indicators;

•monitoring and reporting whether the operational risk exposures are in or out of their operational risk appetite;

•having processes in place to bring operational risk exposures within acceptable levels; 

•periodically estimate and aggregate the operational risks they are exposed to; and

•ensuring that sufficient resources are available to actively improve the operational risk environment and mitigate emerging risks.

Citi considers operational risks that result from the introduction of new or changes to existing products, or result from significant changes in its organizational structures, systems, processes and personnel. 

Citi has a governance structure for the oversight of operational risk exposures through Business Risk and Controls Committees (BRCCs), which include a Citigroup BRCC as well as business, functions, regional and country BRCCs. BRCCs are chaired by the individuals in the first line of defense and provide escalation channels for senior management to review operational risk exposures including breaches of operational risk appetite, key indicators, operational risk events, and control issues. Membership includes senior business and functions leadership as well as members of the second line of defense.

Citi also has an Operational Risk Management Committee that provides senior management of the second line of defense risk organizations with a platform to assess Citi’s operational risk profile and to review that actions are taken to bring Citi’s operational risk exposures within operational risk appetite. Members include Citi’s Chief Risk Officer and Citi’s Head of Operational Risk Management and senior members of their organizations. These members cover multiple dimensions of risk management and include business and regional Chief Risk Officers and senior operational risk managers.

In addition, Independent Risk Management, including the Operational Risk Management group, works proactively with Citi’s businesses and functions to drive a strong and embedded operational risk management culture and framework across Citi. The Operational Risk Management group actively challenges business and functions implementation of the Operational Risk Management Framework requirements and the quality of operational risk management practices and outcomes.

Information about businesses’ key operational risks, historical operational risk losses and the control environment is reported by each major business segment and functional area. Citi’s operational risk profile and related information is summarized and reported to senior management, as well as to the Audit and Risk Committees of Citi’s Board of Directors by the Head of Operational Risk Management.

Operational risk is measured through 

Operational Risk Capital and Operational Risk Regulatory Capital for the Advanced Approaches under Basel III. Projected operational risk losses under stress scenarios are estimated as a required part of the Federal Reserve Board’s CCAR process. 

For additional information on Citi’s operational risks, see “Risk Factors—Operational Risk” above.

Erroneous Revlon-Related Payment

In August 2020, Citi, as administrative agent for a Revlon credit facility, in addition to making an interest payment, erroneously paid the lenders under the facility an aggregate of approximately $894 million, which is an amount equal to the principal balance of the loan at that time. Human error at Citi and at a third-party vendor, and limitations in Citi’s loan 

115

processing systems, were the main contributing factors. After a careful assessment of the incident, Citi immediately put in additional controls to prevent similar loan disbursement errors in the future, while also embarking on a major upgrade of the loan infrastructure and controls.

As of February 26, 2021, $389.8 million has been repaid to Citi. In August 2020, Citi commenced litigation against certain fund managers of lenders that have not returned the remaining $504.2 million of erroneously transferred funds, and obtained a temporary restraining order against the fund managers and those acting with them, freezing the funds from transfer or disbursement. On February 16, 2021, the court issued a judgment in favor of the defendants, which Citi intends to appeal. As a result of the court’s decision, Citi now has rights as a creditor related to the Revlon loan. For additional information, see Notes 27, 29 and 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cybersecurity Risk

Cybersecurity risk is the business risk associated with the threat posed by a cyber attack, cyber breach or the failure to protect Citi’s most vital business information assets or operations, resulting in a financial or reputational loss (for additional information, see the operational systems and cybersecurity risk factors in “Risk Factors—Operational Risks” above). With an evolving threat landscape, ever-increasing sophistication of cybersecurity attacks and use of new technologies to conduct financial transactions, Citi and its clients, customers and third parties are and will continue to be at risk for cyber attacks and information security incidents. Citi recognizes the significance of these risks and, therefore, employs an intelligence-led strategy to protect against, detect, respond to and recover from cyber attacks. Further, Citi actively participates in financial industry, government and cross-sector knowledge-sharing groups to enhance individual and collective cyber resilience. 

Citi’s technology and cybersecurity risk management program is built on three lines of defense. Citi’s first line of defense under the Office of the Chief Information Security Officer provides frontline business, operational and technical controls and capabilities to protect against cybersecurity risks, and to respond to cyber incidents and data breaches. Citi manages these threats through state-of-the-art Fusion Centers, which serve as central command for monitoring and coordinating responses to cyber threats. The enterprise information security team is responsible for infrastructure defense and security controls, performing vulnerability assessments and third-party information security assessments, employee awareness and training programs and security incident management, in each case working in coordination with a network of information security officers who are embedded within the businesses and functions on a global basis. 

Citi’s Operational Risk Management-Technology and Cyber (ORM-T/C) and Independent Compliance Risk Management-Technology and Information Security (ICRM-T) groups serve as the second line of defense, and actively evaluate, anticipate and challenge Citi’s risk mitigation practices and capabilities. Internal audit serves as the third line of defense and independently provides assurance on how 

effectively the organization as a whole manages cybersecurity risk. Citi also has multiple senior committees such as the Information Security Risk Committee (ISRC), which governs enterprise-level risk tolerance inclusive of cybersecurity risk.

Citi seeks to proactively identify and remediate technology and cybersecurity risks before they materialize as incidents that negatively affect business operations. Accordingly, the ORM-T/C team independently challenges and monitors capabilities in accordance with Citi’s defined Technology and Cyber Risk Appetite statements. To address evolving cybersecurity risks and corresponding regulations, ORM-T/C and ICRM-T team collectively also monitor cyber legal and regulatory requirements, identify and define emerging risks, execute strategic cyber threat assessments, perform new products and initiative reviews, perform data management risk oversight and conduct cyber risk assurance reviews (inclusive of third-party assessments). In addition, ORM-T/C employs tools and oversees and challenges metrics that are both tailored to cybersecurity and technology and aligned with Citi’s overall operational risk management framework to effectively track, identify and manage risk.

COMPLIANCE RISK

Compliance risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from violations of laws, rules, or regulations, or from non-conformance with prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures or ethical standards. Compliance risk exposes Citi to fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can result in diminished reputation, harm to the firm’s customers, limited business opportunities and lessened expansion potential. It encompasses the risk of noncompliance with all laws and regulations, as well as prudent ethical standards and some contractual obligations. It could also include exposure to litigation (known as legal risk) from all aspects of traditional and non-traditional banking.

Citi seeks to operate with integrity, maintain strong ethical standards and adhere to applicable policies and regulatory and legal requirements. Citi must maintain and execute a proactive Compliance Risk Management (CRM) Policy that is designed to manage compliance risk effectively across Citi, with a view to fundamentally strengthen the compliance risk management culture across the lines of defense taking into account Citi’s risk governance framework and regulatory requirements. Independent Compliance Risk Management’s (ICRM) primary objectives are to:

•Drive and embed a culture of compliance and control throughout Citi;

•Maintain and oversee an integrated CRM Policy and Compliance Risk Framework that facilitates enterprise-wide compliance with local, national or cross-border laws, rules or regulations, Citi’s internal policies, standards and procedures and relevant standards of conduct;

•Assess compliance risks and issues across product lines, functions and geographies, supported by globally consistent systems and compliance risk management processes; and

•Provide compliance risk data aggregation and reporting capabilities.

116

To anticipate, control and mitigate compliance risk, Citi has established the CRM Policy to achieve standardization and centralization of methodologies and processes, and to enable more consistent and comprehensive execution of compliance risk management. 

Citi has a commitment, as well as an obligation, to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks associated with its businesses and functions. ICRM is responsible for oversight of Citi’s CRM Policy, while all businesses and global control functions are responsible for managing their compliance risks and operating within the Compliance Risk Appetite. 

Citi carries out its objectives and fulfills its responsibilities through the Compliance Risk Framework, which is composed of the following integrated key activities, to holistically manage compliance risk:

•Management of Citi’s compliance with laws, rules and regulations by identifying and analyzing changes, assessing the impact, and implementing appropriate policies, processes and controls.

•Developing and providing compliance training to ensure colleagues are aware of and understand the key laws, rules and regulations.

•Monitoring compliance risk appetite, which is articulated through qualitative compliance risk statements describing Citi’s appetite for certain types of risk and quantitative measures to monitor the Company’s compliance risk exposure.

•Monitoring and testing of compliance risks and controls in assessing conformance with laws, rules, regulations and internal policies.

•Issue identification, escalation and remediation to drive accountability, including measurement and reporting of compliance risk metrics against established thresholds in support of the CRM Policy and Compliance Risk Appetite.

As discussed above, Citi is working to address the FRB and OCC consent orders, which include improvements to Citi’s Compliance Risk Framework and its Enterprise-wide application (for additional information regarding the consent orders, see “Citi’s Consent Order Compliance” above).

REPUTATION RISK

Citi’s reputation is a vital asset in building trust with its stakeholders and Citi is diligent in communicating its corporate values to its colleagues, customers, investors and regulators. To support this, Citi has defined a reputation risk appetite approach. Under this approach, each major business segment has implemented a risk appetite statement and related key indicators to monitor and address weaknesses that may result in significant reputation risks. The approach requires that each business segment or region escalates significant reputation risks that require review or mitigation through its Reputation Risk Committee or equivalent. 

The Reputation Risk Committees are part of the governance infrastructure that Citi has in place to review the reputation risk posed by business activities, sales practices, product design, or perceived conflicts of interest. These committees may also raise potential reputation risks for due 

consideration by the Reputation Risk Committee at the corporate level. The Citigroup Reputation Risk Committee

may escalate reputation risks to the Nomination, Governance

and Public Affairs Committee or other appropriate committee

of the Citigroup Board of Directors. The Reputation Risk Committees, which are composed of Citi’s most senior executives, govern the process by which material reputation risks are identified, monitored, reported, managed and escalated, and appropriate actions are taken in line with Company-wide strategic objectives, risk appetite thresholds and regulatory expectations, while promoting the culture of risk awareness and high standards of integrity and ethical behavior across the Company, consistent with Citi’s mission and value proposition. 

Further, the responsibility for maintaining Citi’s reputation is shared by all colleagues, who are guided by Citi’s Code of Conduct. Colleagues are expected to exercise sound judgment and common sense in decisions and actions. They are also expected to promptly and appropriately escalate all issues that present potential reputation risk.

STRATEGIC RISK

Overview

Citi’s Executive Management Team, led by Citi’s CEO, is responsible for the development and execution of Citi’s strategy. This strategy is translated into forward-looking plans that are then cascaded across the organization. Strategic risk is monitored through a range of practices: regular Citigroup Board of Director meetings provide strategic checkpoints where management’s progress is assessed and where decisions to refine the strategic direction of the Company are evaluated; Citi’s Executive Management Team assesses progress against executing the defined plans; CEO reviews, which include a risk assessment of the plans, occur across products, regions and functions to focus on progress against executing the plans; products, regions and functions have internal reviews to assess performance at lower levels across the organization; and specific forums exist to focus on key areas that drive strategic risk such as balance sheet management, the introduction of new or modified products and services and country management, among others. In addition to these day-to-day practices, significant strategic actions, such as mergers, acquisitions or capital expenditures, are reviewed and approved by, or notified to, the Citigroup Board of Directors.

U.K.’s Future Relationship with the EU

As previously disclosed, the U.K. formally left the European Union (EU) on January 31, 2020. Subsequently, the U.K. and the EU entered into a Trade and Cooperation Agreement (TCA) that set out preferential arrangements in areas such as trade in goods and in services that became effective on January 1, 2021. While entering into the TCA avoided a “no deal” exit scenario, many questions remain as to the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. For example, the TCA minimally covers financial services. The U.K. and the EU have committed under the TCA to negotiate further details regarding financial services, but there can be no assurance as to the successful completion or ultimate outcome of those negotiations. Citi planned extensively for the U.K. exit from 

117

the EU and successfully implemented its transition plans to date. However, future legislative and regulatory developments in the U.K. and the EU as a result of the exit may negatively impact Citi. For additional information, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” above.

LIBOR Transition Risk

The ICE Benchmark Administration concluded the consultation on its intent to cease publication of one week and two month USD LIBOR on December 31, 2021 and to extend the publication of all remaining USD LIBORs until June 30, 2023 for legacy contracts. In addition, it is expected that all non USD LIBOR tenors will cease after December 31, 2021. Citi recognizes that a transition away from and discontinuance of LIBOR presents various risks and challenges that could significantly impact financial markets and market participants, including Citi (for information about Citi’s risks from a transition away from and discontinuation of LIBOR or any other interest rate benchmark, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risks” above). Accordingly, Citi has continued its efforts to identify and manage its LIBOR transition risks. Citi is also closely monitoring legislative, regulatory and other developments related to LIBOR transition matters and relief.

Citi has established a LIBOR governance and implementation program focused on identifying and addressing the LIBOR transition impacts to Citi’s clients, operational capabilities and legal and financial contracts, among others. The program operates globally across Citi’s businesses and functions and includes active involvement of senior management, oversight by Citi’s Asset & Liability Committee and reporting to the Risk Management Committee of Citigroup’s Board of Directors. As part of the program, Citi has continued to implement its LIBOR transition action plans and associated roadmaps under the following key workstreams: program management; transition strategy and risk management; customer management, including internal communications and training, legal/contract management and product management; financial exposures and risk management; regulatory and industry engagement; operations and technology; and finance, risk, tax and treasury.

During 2020, Citi continued to participate in a number of working groups formed by global regulators, including the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC) convened by the Federal Reserve Board. These working groups promote and advance development of alternative reference rates and seek to identify and address potential challenges from any transition to such rates. Citi also continued to engage with regulators, financial accounting bodies and others on LIBOR transition matters.

Moreover, Citi has continued to identify its LIBOR transition exposures, including financial instruments that do not contain contract provisions that adequately contemplate the discontinuance of reference rates and that would require additional negotiation with counterparties. Citi’s LIBOR transition efforts include, among other things, using alternative reference rates in certain newly issued financial instruments and products. Since 2019, Citi has issued preferred stock and benchmark debt referencing the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) as well as updated the LIBOR determination method in its debt documentation with the ARRC 

recommended fallback language. In addition, in 2020, Citi transitioned the discounting of centrally cleared EUR and USD interest rate derivatives to the Euro Short-Term Rate (ESTR) and SOFR, respectively; announced the adoption of the newly published Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) Fallbacks Protocol of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) for existing IBOR derivatives transactions; and increased Citi’s virtual client communication efforts, including outreach regarding these new industry-led protocols and solutions. Further, Citi has also been investing in its systems and infrastructure, as client activity moves away from LIBOR to alternative reference rates.

Climate Risk 

Climate change presents immediate and long-term risks to Citi and to its clients and customers, with the risks expected to increase over time. Climate risk refers to the risk of loss arising from climate change and is divided into physical risk and transition risk. Physical risk considers how chronic and acute climate change (e.g., increased storms, drought, fires, floods) can directly damage physical assets (e.g., real estate, crops) or otherwise impact their value or productivity. Transition risk considers how changes in policy, technology and market preference to address climate change (e.g., carbon price policies, power generation shifts from fossil fuels to renewable energy) can lead to changes in the value of assets, commodities and companies. 

Climate risk is an overarching risk that can act as a driver of other types of risk in the Citi risk taxonomy, such as credit risk from obligors exposed to high climate risk, reputational risk from increased stakeholder concerns about financing high carbon industries and operational risk from physical climate risks to Citi’s facilities.

Citi currently identifies climate risk as an “emerging risk” within its risk governance framework. Emerging risks are risks or thematic issues that are either new to the landscape, or in the case of climate risk, existing risks that are rapidly changing or evolving in an escalating fashion, which are difficult to assess due to limited data or other uncertainties. For additional information on climate risk, see “Risk Factors—Strategic Risk” above.

With the increased importance and focus on climate risk, Citi has continued to expand its governance of climate risk and integrate climate considerations into the priorities of Citigroup’s Board of Directors and senior management. In particular, Citi has:

•appointed a Chief Sustainability Officer;

•appointed a Head of Climate Risk to partner with the Head of Environmental and Social Risk Management to deliver a Company-wide strategy concerning climate risk; 

•formed a global, cross-functional senior-executive level Climate Risk Advisory Council to provide oversight of and guidance to Citi’s climate risk integration efforts; and

•increased the frequency and depth of Board and senior-level review of climate-related matters.

Citi manages and mitigates the credit and reputational risks from climate change through a number of internal initiatives, including Citi’s Environmental and Social Risk 

118

Management (ESRM) Policy. First established in 2003, the ESRM Policy is part of Citi’s broader credit risk management policy and is applicable to all Citi entities globally. The ESRM Policy provides the framework for how Citi identifies, mitigates and manages the potential environmental and social risks (including climate risks) associated with clients’ activities that could lead to credit or reputation risks to the Company. It guides how Citi evaluates lending, underwriting and advisory in environmentally sensitive and/or high-carbon sectors, and presents opportunities for Citi to engage clients on solutions to thematic risks. 

In project-related lending, Citi’s ESRM Policy incorporates the updates from the fourth iteration of the Equator Principles, which Citi helped shape, that expands climate risk requirements to include physical risk as well as transition risk. Citi’s ESRM Policy covers lending and underwriting with identified use of proceeds directed to physical assets and activities, as well as sector standards for corporate relationships in higher-risk sectors, including carbon-intensive sectors. In 2020, Citi updated its sector standards for thermal and coal mining, coal-fired power and Arctic oil and gas.

Citi has also made climate risk one of the three key pillars of its 2025 Sustainable Progress Strategy. Under this pillar, Citi intends to measure, manage and reduce the climate risk and impact of its client portfolios and enhance its Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) implementation and disclosure through policy development, portfolio analysis and client engagement. In December 2020, Citi released its second report detailing its implementation of the TCFD recommendations: Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future II. In this report, Citi discusses its implementation of the TCFD recommendations, and Citi’s recent pilot testing of climate scenario analyses to assess climate-related impacts and risks in specific sectors, spanning both transition and physical climate risks. Climate data is still improving in terms of its accessibility and reliability, and the industry and Citi continue to develop better methodological approaches toward assessing climate change impacts. Nonetheless, Citi expects to integrate more quantitative analysis of climate risks into credit assessments in the future and to quantify the carbon emissions associated with its client portfolios. Citi will continue to disclose its progress in this area in its annual Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report and TCFD reporting. 

In addition, Citi continues to participate in financial industry collaborations to develop and pilot new methodologies and approaches for measuring and assessing the potential financial risks of climate change. Citi is also closely monitoring regulatory developments on climate risk and sustainable finance, and actively engaging with regulators on these topics.

For information on Citi’s environmental and social policies and priorities, see Citi’s website at www.citigroup.com. Click on “About Us” and then “Environmental, Social, and Governance.” For information on Citi’s ESG and Sustainability (including climate change) governance, see Citi’s 2020 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement available at www.citigroup.com. Click on “Investors” and then “Annual Reports & Proxy Statements.”

119

Country Risk

Top 25 Country Exposures 

The following table presents Citi’s top 25 exposures by country, excluding the U.S., as of December 31, 2020. (Including the U.S., the total exposure as of December 31, 2020 would represent approximately 96% of Citi’s exposure to all countries.) 

For purposes of the table, loan amounts are reflected in the country where the loan is booked, which is generally based on the domicile of the borrower. For example, a loan to a Chinese subsidiary of a Switzerland-based corporation will generally be categorized as a loan in China. In addition, Citi has developed regional booking centers in certain countries, most significantly in the United Kingdom (U.K.) and Ireland, 

in order to more efficiently serve its corporate customers. As an example, with respect to the U.K., only 37% of corporate loans presented in the table below are to U.K. domiciled entities (42% for unfunded commitments), with the balance of the loans predominately to European domiciled counterparties. Approximately 80% of the total U.K. funded loans and 86% of the total U.K. unfunded commitments were investment grade as of December 31, 2020. 

Trading account assets and investment securities are generally categorized based on the domicile of the issuer of the security of the underlying reference entity. For additional information on the assets included in the table, see the footnotes to the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) ICG loans reflect funded corporate loans and private bank loans, net of unearned income. As of December 31, 2020, private bank loans in the table above totaled $30.1 billion, concentrated in Hong Kong ($8.2 billion), the United Kingdom ($7.9 billion) and Singapore ($7 billion).

(2) Other funded includes other direct exposures such as accounts receivable, loans HFS, other loans in Corporate/Other and investments accounted for under the equity method.

120

(3) Unfunded exposure includes unfunded corporate lending commitments, letters of credit and other contingencies.

(4) Net mark-to-market counterparty risk on OTC derivatives and securities lending/borrowing transactions (repos). Exposures are shown net of collateral and inclusive of CVA. Includes margin loans.

(5) Investment securities include debt securities available-for-sale, recorded at fair market value, and debt securities held-to-maturity, recorded at historical cost.

(6) Trading account assets are shown on a net basis and include issuer risk on cash products and derivative exposure where the underlying reference entity/issuer is located in that country.

Argentina

As previously disclosed, Citi operates in Argentina through its ICG businesses. As of December 31, 2020, Citi’s net investment in its Argentine operations was approximately $1.0 billion. Citi uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for its operations in Argentina because the Argentine economy is considered highly inflationary under U.S. GAAP. 

During August 2020, the Argentine government announced the successful restructuring of almost all of its foreign currency debt issued under foreign law, for which it had previously postponed principal and interest payments. However, during September 2020, the Argentine government tightened its existing capital and currency controls, which continue to restrict Citi’s ability to access U.S. dollars in Argentina and remit earnings from its Argentine operations. Citi’s net investment in its Argentine operations is likely

to increase as Citi generates net income in its Argentine

franchise and its earnings are unable to be remitted.

Citi economically hedges the foreign currency risk in its net Argentine peso-denominated assets to the extent possible and prudent using non-deliverable forward (NDF) derivative instruments that are primarily executed outside of Argentina. As of December 31, 2020, the international NDF market had very limited liquidity, resulting in Citi’s being unable to economically hedge nearly all of its Argentine peso exposure. As a result, and to the extent that Citi does not execute NDF contracts for this unhedged exposure in the future, Citi would record devaluations on its net Argentine peso‐denominated assets in earnings, without any benefit from a change in the fair value of derivative positions used to economically hedge the exposure. 

Citi continually evaluates its economic exposure to its Argentine counterparties and reserves for changes in credit risk and sovereign risk associated with its Argentine assets. Citi believes it has established appropriate allowances for credit losses on its Argentine loans, and appropriate fair value adjustments on Argentine assets and liabilities measured at fair value, for such risks under U.S. GAAP as of December 31, 2020. However, U.S. regulatory agencies may require Citi to record additional reserves in the future, increasing ICG’s cost of credit, based on the perceived country risk associated with its Argentine exposures. For additional information on emerging markets risks, see “Risk Factors” above.

FFIEC—Cross-Border Claims on Third Parties and Local Country Assets

Citi’s cross-border disclosures are based on the country exposure bank regulatory reporting guidelines of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC). The following summarizes some of the FFIEC key reporting guidelines:

•Amounts are based on the domicile of the ultimate obligor, counterparty, collateral (only including qualifying liquid collateral), issuer or guarantor, as applicable (e.g., a security recorded by a Citi U.S. entity but issued by the U.K. government is considered U.K. exposure; a loan recorded by a Citi Mexico entity to a customer domiciled in Mexico where the underlying collateral is held in Germany is considered German exposure). 

•Amounts do not consider the benefit of collateral received for secured financing transactions (i.e., repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements and securities loaned and borrowed) and are reported based on notional amounts. 

•Netting of derivative receivables and payables, reported at fair value, is permitted, but only under a legally binding netting agreement with the same specific counterparty, and does not include the benefit of margin received or hedges.

•Credit default swaps (CDS) are included based on the gross notional amount sold and purchased and do not include any offsetting CDS on the same underlying entity. 

•Loans are reported without the benefit of hedges.

Given the requirements noted above, Citi’s FFIEC cross-border exposures and total outstandings tend to fluctuate, in some cases significantly, from period to period. As an example, because total outstandings under FFIEC guidelines do not include the benefit of margin or hedges, market volatility in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and credit spreads may cause significant fluctuations in the level of total outstandings, all else being equal.

121

The tables below show each country whose total outstandings exceeded 0.75% of total Citigroup assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Non-bank financial institutions.

(2) Included in total outstanding.

(3) Total outstanding includes cross-border claims on third parties, as well as local country assets. Cross-border claims on third parties include cross-border loans, securities, deposits with banks and other monetary assets, as well as net revaluation gains on foreign exchange and derivative products.

(4) Commitments (not included in total outstanding) include legally binding cross-border letters of credit and other commitments and contingencies as defined by the FFIEC guidelines. The FFIEC definition of commitments includes commitments to local residents to be funded with local currency liabilities originated within the country.

(5) Credit default swaps (CDS) are not included in total outstanding. 

122

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES

This section contains a summary of Citi’s most significant accounting policies. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of all of Citigroup’s significant accounting policies. These policies, as well as estimates made by management, are integral to the presentation of Citi’s results of operations and financial condition. While all of these policies require a certain level of management judgment and estimates, this section highlights and discusses the significant accounting policies that require management to make highly difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates at times regarding matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change (see also “Risk Factors—Operational Risks” above). Management has discussed each of these significant accounting policies, the related estimates and its judgments with the Audit Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors. 

Valuations of Financial Instruments

Citigroup holds debt and equity securities, derivatives, retained interests in securitizations, investments in private equity and other financial instruments. Substantially all of 

these assets and liabilities are reflected at fair value on Citi’s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet.