Item 7A. Market Risk

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have market risk exposure related to fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Market risk is the potential negative impact of adverse changes in these prices or rates on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In an effort to manage our exposure to these risks, we may enter into derivative contracts and may adjust our derivative portfolio as market conditions change. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our derivative contracts. We expect adjustments to the fair value of financial instruments to result in ongoing volatility in earnings and stockholders' equity.

The following sensitivity analyses do not consider the effects of a change in demand for air travel, the economy as a whole or actions we may take to seek to mitigate our exposure to a particular risk. For these and other reasons, the actual results of changes in these prices or rates may differ materially from the following hypothetical results.

Fuel Price Risk

Changes in fuel prices materially impact our results of operations. A one cent increase in the cost of jet fuel would result in approximately $40 million of additional annual fuel expense based on annual pre-COVID-19 pandemic consumption of approximately four billion gallons of jet fuel. As a result of the reduced capacity from the COVID-19 pandemic, our jet fuel consumption during 2020 of 1.9 billion gallons was significantly less than our historical and expected future consumption. Our derivative contracts to hedge the financial risk from changing fuel prices are primarily related to Monroe’s inventory. 

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates is primarily associated with our debt obligations. Market risk associated with our fixed and variable rate debt relates to the potential reduction in fair value and negative impact to future earnings, respectively, from an increase in interest rates. 

At December 31, 2020, we had $22.3 billion of fixed-rate debt and $5.9 billion of variable-rate debt. The rates used in our variable-rate debt are based on LIBOR, or another index rate, which in certain cases is subject to a floor. An increase of 100 basis points in average annual interest rates would have decreased the estimated fair value of our fixed-rate debt by $1.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and would have increased the annual interest expense on our variable-rate debt and variable-rate leases by $29 million. 

The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced in 2017 that it intends to no longer compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") after 2021. In December 2020, the administrator of LIBOR proposed to cease publication of certain LIBOR settings after December 2021 and to cease publication of the remainder of the LIBOR settings after June 2023. To mitigate the possible impact of this change, various regulators have proposed alternative reference rates. The effect of any discontinuation or replacement of LIBOR cannot be predicted at this time, but we believe our risk would be limited to variable-rate debt and variable-rate finance leases which utilize rates for which the settings are to be discontinued after June 2023 because we have an immaterial amount of contracts that utilize the settings to be discontinued immediately after December 2021. At December 31, 2020 we had approximately $3.8 billion of variable-rate debt and variable-rate finance leases maturing after June 2023, all of which include provisions to update the applicable reference rate, and we do not expect this rate to be materially different from LIBOR.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk because we have revenue, expense and equity investments denominated in foreign currencies. To manage exchange rate risk, we execute both our international revenue and expense transactions in the same foreign currency to the extent practicable. From time to time, we may also enter into foreign currency option and forward contracts. 

At December 31, 2020, we had a U.S. dollar-South Korean won cross currency swap contract totaling a $13 million liability position. We estimate that a 10% depreciation or appreciation in the price of the South Korean won in relation to the U.S. dollar would have changed the projected cash settlement value of our open hedge contract by $17 million for the year ending December 31, 2020.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K 56

Financial Statements

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA