MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The discussion related to the results of operations and changes in financial condition for 2019 compared to 2018 is incorporated by reference to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Edison International's and SCE's combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, which was filed with the SEC in February 2020.

MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW

Highlights of Operating Results

Edison International is the parent holding company of SCE and Edison Energy Group. SCE is an investor-owned public utility primarily engaged in the business of supplying and delivering electricity to an approximately 50,000 square mile area of southern California. Edison Energy Group is a holding company for Edison Energy which is engaged in the competitive business of providing data-driven energy solutions to commercial, institutional and industrial customers. Edison Energy's business activities are currently not material to report as a separate business segment.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Edison International's earnings are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Management uses core earnings (losses) internally for financial planning and for analysis of performance. Core earnings (losses) are also used when communicating with investors and analysts regarding Edison International's earnings results to facilitate comparisons of the company's performance from period to period. Core earnings (losses) are a non-GAAP financial measure and may not be comparable to those of other companies. Core earnings (losses) are defined as earnings attributable to Edison International shareholders less non-core items. Non-core items include income or loss from discontinued operations and income or loss from significant discrete items that management does not consider representative of ongoing earnings, such as write downs, asset impairments and other 

3

income and expense related to changes in law, outcomes in tax, regulatory or legal proceedings, and exit activities, including sale of certain assets and other activities that are no longer continuing.

Edison International's 2020 earnings decreased $545 million, driven by a decrease in SCE's earnings of $599 million, partially offset by a decrease in Edison International Parent and Other losses of $54 million. SCE's lower net income consisted of $722 million of higher non-core losses, partially offset by $123 million of higher core earnings.

The increase in SCE's core earnings was primarily due to higher CPUC-related revenue due to the escalation mechanism as set forth in the 2018 GRC decision, lower expenses from regulatory deferrals related to 2020 wildfire mitigation activities and a 2020 adjustment to 2018 – 2019 regulatory deferrals from the approval of the GRC track 2 settlement. These increases were partially offset by the impact from the adoption of the 2018 GRC decision in the second quarter of 2019, higher employee benefits, higher customer uncollectibles from the COVID-19 pandemic and expenses from SCE's response to the pandemic that were unable to be deferred to regulatory assets.

Edison International Parent and Other's decrease in losses for 2020 was primarily due to higher non-core earnings of $86 million, partially offset by higher core losses of $32 million. The increase in core losses in 2020 was primarily due to higher interest expense as a result of increased borrowings.

Consolidated non-core items for 2020 and 2019 for Edison International included:

•Charges of $1.2 billion ($899 million after-tax) recorded in 2020 and $218 million ($157 million after-tax) recorded in 2019 for SCE's 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events claims and expenses, net of expected recoveries from FERC customers.

•Charges of $336 million ($242 million after-tax) recorded in 2020 and $152 million ($109 million after-tax) recorded in 2019 from the amortization of SCE's contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies" for further information.

•Gains of $150 million ($108 million after-tax) recorded in 2020 and $11 million ($8 million after-tax) recorded in 2019 for SCE's sale of San Onofre nuclear fuel.

•Gain of $132 million ($96 million after-tax) recorded in 2020 for Edison International Parent and Other's sale of an investment in a lease of a hydroelectric power plant in Vidalia, Louisiana ("Vidalia Lease"). See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 13. Leases" for further information.

•Goodwill impairment charges of $34 million ($25 million after-tax) recorded in 2020 and $25 million ($18 million after-tax) recorded in 2019 for Edison International Parent and Other related to Edison Energy.

•An income tax benefit of $18 million and income tax expense of $3 million recorded in 2020 for SCE and Edison International Parent and Other, respectively, due to re-measurement of uncertain tax positions related to the 2010 – 2012 California state tax filings currently under audit.

•An impairment charge of $170 million ($123 million after-tax) recorded in 2019 for SCE related to disallowed historical capital expenditures in SCE's 2018 GRC final decision.

•Income tax benefits of $88 million recorded in 2019 for SCE related to changes in the allocation of deferred tax re-measurement between customers and shareholders as a result of a CPUC resolution issued in February 2019 to provide guidance on the implementation of Tax Reform. The resolution determined that customers are only entitled to excess deferred taxes which were included when setting rates and other deferred tax re-measurement belongs to shareholders.

See "Results of Operations" for discussion of SCE and Edison International Parent and Other results of operations.

4

Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides

Wildfires in SCE's territory, including those where SCE's equipment may be alleged to be associated with the fire's ignition, have caused loss of life and substantial damage in recent years. Multiple factors have contributed to increased wildfire activity and faster progression of wildfires across SCE's service territory and in other areas of California. These include the buildup of dry vegetation in areas severely impacted by years of historic drought, lack of adequate clearing of hazardous fuels by responsible parties, higher temperatures, lower humidity, increased incidence of dry lightning, and strong Santa Ana winds. At the same time that wildfire risk has been increasing in Southern California, residential and commercial development has occurred and is occurring in some of the highest-risk areas. Such factors can increase the likelihood and extent of wildfires. SCE has determined that approximately 27% of its service territory is in areas identified as high fire risk.

California has experienced unprecedented weather conditions in recent years and SCE's service territory remains susceptible to additional wildfire activity in 2021 and beyond. The worsening conditions across California increase the likelihood of wildfires, including those where SCE's equipment may be alleged to be associated with the fire's ignition. In response to worsening weather and fuel conditions and increased wildfire activity over the past several years, SCE has developed and is implementing its 2020 – 2022 WMP to reduce the risk of SCE equipment contributing to the ignition of wildfires. In addition, California has increased its investment in wildfire suppression capabilities.

In addition to the investments SCE is making through its WMP, SCE also uses its PSPS program to proactively de-energize power lines to mitigate the risk of catastrophic wildfires during extreme weather events. SCE initiated PSPS 12 times in 2020 as part of its wildfire mitigation efforts, impacting an aggregate of approximately 140,000 unique customers. In January 2021, the President of the CPUC sent SCE a letter expressing her concern regarding SCE's execution of PSPS in 2020 and notifying SCE that it must implement a PSPS action plan to reduce the impacts of PSPS on the customers and communities it serves. On a risk-informed basis, SCE is making efforts to reduce the frequency and impacts of PSPS in 2021 as compared to 2020, assuming that weather patterns in 2021 are similar to those experienced in 2020. SCE may be subject to mandated changes to, or restrictions on, its operational PSPS practices, regulatory fines and penalties, claims for damages and reputational harm if SCE does not execute PSPS in compliance with applicable rules and regulations or if it is determined that SCE has placed excessive reliance on PSPS.

Edison International and SCE have incurred material losses in connection with the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events described below. Several wildfires have originated in Southern California subsequent to 2018, however, Edison International and SCE expect that any losses incurred in connection with these fires will be covered by insurance, subject to self-insured retentions and co-insurance, and expect that any such losses after insurance recoveries will not be material.

Edison International and SCE accrued estimated losses of $1,328 million in 2020 for wildfire-related claims, net of expected insurance recoveries. The 2020 charge consists of an increase in estimated losses for claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events of $1,297 million, against which SCE has recorded expected recoveries through FERC electric rates of $84 million. The resulting charge was $1,213 million ($874 million after-tax). The 2020 charge also includes $31 million ($21 million after FERC recovery and after-tax) of expenses primarily associated with self-insured retention related to the 2019/2020 Wildfires.

2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events

Wildfires in SCE's territory in December 2017 and November 2018 caused loss of life, substantial damage to both residential and business properties, and service outages for SCE customers. The investigating government agencies, the VCFD and California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection ("CAL FIRE"), have determined that the largest of the 2017 fires in SCE's territory originated on December 4, 2017, in the Anlauf Canyon area of Ventura County (the investigating agencies refer to this fire as the "Thomas Fire"), followed shortly thereafter by the Koenigstein Fire. The December 4, 2017 fires eventually burned substantial acreage in both Ventura and Santa Barbara Counties. The largest of the November 2018 fires in SCE's territory, known as the Woolsey Fire, originated in Ventura County and burned acreage in both Ventura and Los Angeles Counties.

In March 2019, the VCFD and CAL FIRE jointly issued separate reports finding that the Thomas Fire and the Koenigstein Fire were each caused by SCE equipment. At this time, based on available information, SCE has not determined whether its equipment caused the Thomas Fire. Based on publicly available radar data showing a smoke plume in the Anlauf Canyon area emerging in advance of the start time of the Thomas Fire indicated in the Thomas Fire report, SCE believes that the Thomas Fire started at least 12 minutes prior to any issue involving SCE's system and at least 15 minutes prior to the start time indicated in the report. SCE has previously disclosed that SCE believed its equipment was associated with the ignition of the Koenigstein Fire. SCE is continuing to assess the extent of damages that may be attributable to the Thomas Fire and the Koenigstein Fire.

5

SCE has received a non-final redacted draft of a report from the VCFD which states that the VCFD investigation team determined that electrical equipment owned and operated by SCE was the cause of the Woolsey Fire. Absent additional evidence, SCE believes that it is likely that its equipment was associated with the ignition of the Woolsey Fire.

Multiple lawsuits related to the Thomas and Koenigstein Fires and the Woolsey Fire have been initiated against SCE and Edison International. Some of the Thomas and Koenigstein Fires lawsuits claim that SCE and Edison International have responsibility for the damages caused by the Montecito Mudslides that occurred in January 2018 based on a theory alleging that SCE has responsibility for the Thomas and/or Koenigstein Fires and further alleging that the Thomas and/or Koenigstein Fires proximately caused the Montecito Mudslides.

Under the terms of the TKM Subrogation Settlement that Edison International and SCE entered into in the third quarter of 2020, all of the TKM Subrogation Plaintiffs' collective claims arising from the Thomas Fire, Koenigstein Fire or Montecito Mudslides have been resolved. Under the terms of the TKM Subrogation Settlement, SCE has paid the TKM Subrogation Plaintiffs an aggregate of $1.2 billion and also agreed to pay $0.555 for each dollar in claims to be paid by the TKM Subrogation Plaintiffs to their policy holders on or before July 15, 2023, up to an agreed upon cap. In 2020 SCE also entered into settlements with individual plaintiffs in the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events litigation under which it agreed to pay an aggregate of approximately $300 million to those individual plaintiffs.

At December 31, 2019, Edison International and SCE were unable to determine a best estimate of expected losses within a reasonably estimated range and therefore Edison International's and SCE's consolidated balance sheets included estimated losses, established at the lower end of the reasonably estimated range of expected losses, of $4.5 billion for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. In light of the TKM Subrogation Settlement and increased settlement activity with individual plaintiffs in the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events litigation, among other things, management established a best estimate of expected potential losses for alleged and potential claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events litigation in the third quarter of 2020. As a result, Edison International and SCE recorded a charge of $1.3 billion in September 2020 related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, against which SCE recorded expected recoveries through FERC electric rates of $84 million. The resulting net pre-tax charge to earnings was $1.2 billion ($874 million after-tax).

Through December 31, 2020, Edison International and SCE have recorded total pre-tax charges of $6.2 billion, expected recoveries from insurance of $2.0 billion and expected recoveries through FERC electric rates of $233 million related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. The after-tax net charges to earnings recorded through December 31, 2020 have been $2.9 billion.

As of December 31, 2020, SCE had paid $1.8 billion under settlements related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, of which $1.3 billion has been recovered through insurance and $144 million has been recovered through FERC-jurisdictional electric rates.

In January 2021, Edison International and SCE entered into the Woolsey Subrogation Settlement with the Woolsey Subrogation Plaintiffs to resolve those parties' collective claims arising from the Woolsey Fire. Under the terms of the Woolsey Subrogation Settlement, SCE agreed to pay the Woolsey Subrogation Plaintiffs an aggregate of $2.2 billion by April 22, 2021. SCE has also agreed to pay $0.67 for each dollar in claims to be paid by the Woolsey Subrogation Plaintiffs to their policy holders on or before July 15, 2023, up to an agreed upon cap. Between December 31, 2020 and February 18, 2021, SCE also entered into settlements with individual plaintiffs in the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events litigation under which it agreed to pay an aggregate of approximately $80 million to those individual plaintiffs. After giving effect to all settlements entered into through February 18, 2021, Edison International and SCE's best estimate of expected losses for remaining alleged and potential claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events will be $2.1 billion.

The remaining estimated losses for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events do not include an estimate of any potential fines or penalties that could be levied against SCE in connection with the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. Edison International and SCE are currently unable to reasonably estimate the magnitude of any such fines or penalties, or the associated timing if they were to be imposed. Estimated losses for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events litigation are based on a number of assumptions and are subject to change as additional information becomes available. Actual losses incurred may be higher or lower than estimated based on several factors, including: the uncertainty as to the legal and factual determinations to be made during litigation, including uncertainty as to the contributing causes of the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, the complexities associated with fires that merge, whether inverse condemnation will be held applicable to SCE with respect to damages caused by the Montecito Mudslides, the preliminary nature of the litigation processes, the uncertainty in estimating damages that may be alleged, and the uncertainty as to how these factors impact future settlements.

SCE will seek CPUC-jurisdictional rate recovery of prudently-incurred, actual losses realized in connection with the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events in excess of available insurance. SCE believes that, in light of the CPUC's decision in a 

6

cost recovery proceeding involving SDG&E arising from several 2007 wildfires in SDG&E's service area, there is substantial uncertainty regarding how the CPUC will interpret and apply its prudency standard to an investor-owned utility in future wildfire cost-recovery proceedings for fires ignited prior to July 12, 2019. Accordingly, while the CPUC has not made a determination regarding SCE's prudency relative to any of the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, SCE is unable to conclude, at this time, that uninsured CPUC-jurisdictional wildfire-related costs are probable of recovery through electric rates.

Current Wildfire Insurance Coverage

SCE has approximately $1.0 billion of wildfire-specific insurance coverage for events that may occur during the period July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021, subject to up to $80 million of co-insurance and $50 million of self-insured retention, which results in net coverage of approximately $870 million. Various coverage limitations within the policies that make up SCE's wildfire insurance coverage could result in additional material self-insured costs, for instance in the event of multiple wildfire occurrences during a policy period. SCE believes that its insurance coverage for the July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021 period meets its obligation to maintain reasonable insurance coverage under AB 1054.

2019 Wildfire Legislation

In July 2019, AB 1054 was signed by the governor of California and became effective immediately. The summary of the wildfire legislation in this report is based on SCE's interpretation of the legislation and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read together with, AB 1054 and companion Assembly Bill 111.

AB 1054 Prudency Standard

Under AB 1054, the CPUC must apply a new standard when assessing the prudency of a utility in connection with a request for recovery of wildfire costs for wildfires ignited after July 12, 2019. Under AB 1054, the CPUC is required to find a utility to be prudent if the utility's conduct related to the ignition was consistent with actions that a reasonable utility would have undertaken under similar circumstances, at the relevant point in time, and based on the information available at that time. Utilities with a valid safety certification will be presumed to have acted prudently related to a wildfire ignition unless a party in the cost recovery proceeding creates serious doubt as to the reasonableness of the utility's conduct, at which time, the burden shifts back to the utility to prove its conduct was reasonable. If a utility does not have a valid safety certification, it will have the burden to prove, based on a preponderance of evidence, that its conduct was prudent. The new prudency standard will survive the termination of the Wildfire Insurance Fund (described below).

Utilities participating in the Wildfire Insurance Fund are not required to reimburse the fund for amounts withdrawn from the fund that the CPUC finds were prudently incurred and can recover such prudently incurred wildfire costs through electric rates if the fund has been exhausted.

Wildfire Insurance Fund

AB 1054 provided for the Wildfire Insurance Fund to reimburse a utility for payment of third-party damage claims arising from certain wildfires that exceed, in aggregate in a calendar year, the greater of $1.0 billion or the insurance coverage required to be maintained under AB 1054. The Wildfire Insurance Fund was established in September 2019 and is available for claims related to wildfires ignited after July 12, 2019 that are determined by the responsible government investigatory agency to have been caused by a utility.

SCE and SDG&E collectively made their initial contributions totaling approximately $2.7 billion to the Wildfire Insurance Fund in September 2019. Upon its emergence from bankruptcy, on July 1, 2020, PG&E made its initial contribution of approximately $4.8 billion to the Wildfire Insurance Fund. PG&E, SCE and SDG&E are also collectively expected to make aggregate contributions of approximately $3.0 billion to the Wildfire Insurance Fund through annual contributions to the fund over a 10-year period, of which they have made two annual contributions totaling approximately $600 million. In addition to PG&E's, SCE's and SDG&E's contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund, PG&E, SCE and SDG&E are expected to collect $6.1 billion, $6.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, from their customers over a 15-year period through a dedicated rate component. The amount collected from customers may be directly contributed to the Wildfire Insurance Fund or used to support the issuance of up to $10.5 billion in bonds by the California Department of Water Resources, the proceeds of which would be contributed to the fund. In addition to funding contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund, the amount collected from utility customers will pay for, among other things, any interest and financing costs related to any bonds that are issued by the California Department of Water Resources to support the contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund.

7

Through December 31, 2020, SCE has contributed approximately $2.6 billion to the Wildfire Insurance Fund and has committed to make eight annual contributions of approximately $95 million per year to the fund, by no later than January 1 of each year. Edison International supported SCE's initial contribution of $2.4 billion to the Wildfire Insurance Fund by raising $1.2 billion from the issuance of Edison International equity. SCE raised the remaining $1.2 billion from the issuance of long-term debt. SCE's contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund will not be recoverable through electric rates and will be excluded from the measurement of SCE's CPUC-jurisdictional authorized capital structure. SCE will also not be entitled to cost recovery for any borrowing costs incurred in connection with its contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund.

Reimbursement from Wildfire Insurance Fund and AB 1054 Liability Cap

Participating investor-owned utilities will be reimbursed from the Wildfire Insurance Fund for eligible claims, subject to the fund administrator's review. SCE will reimburse the fund for any withdrawn amounts if SCE receives payment of such amounts under an indemnification agreement or from an insurance provider or other third-party. SCE will also be required to reimburse the fund for withdrawn amounts that the CPUC disallows subject, in some instances, to the AB 1054 Liability Cap. A utility will not be eligible for the AB 1054 Liability Cap if it does not maintain a valid safety certification or its actions or inactions that resulted in the wildfire are found to constitute conscious or willful disregard of the rights and safety of others. Based on SCE's forecasted weighted-average 2021 rate base and using the equity portion of SCE's CPUC authorized capital structure of 52%, SCE's requirement to reimburse the Wildfire Insurance Fund for eligible claims disallowed in 2021 would be capped at approximately $3.2 billion. SCE will not be allowed to recover borrowing costs incurred to reimburse the fund for amounts that the CPUC disallows. The Wildfire Insurance Fund and, consequently, the AB 1054 Liability Cap will terminate when the administrator determines that the fund has been exhausted.

Safety Certification and Wildfire Mitigation Plan

Under AB 1054, SCE can obtain an annual safety certification upon the submission of certain required safety information, including an approved WMP. On September 17, 2020, SCE obtained a safety certification that will be valid for 12 months. Notwithstanding its 12-month term, if SCE requests a new safety certification prior to the expiration of its current safety certification, then its current safety certification will remain valid until the WSD acts on SCE's request for a new safety certification.

Under AB 1054, SCE is required to submit a WMP to the CPUC at least once every three years for review and approval. Beginning in 2020, each such plan was required to cover at least a three-year period. SCE filed its 2020 – 2022 WMP in February 2020. In June 2020, the CPUC ratified the WSD's conditional approval of SCE's 2020 – 2022 WMP. The approval is conditioned on SCE providing requested information to the WSD, including additional descriptions of how SCE is implementing, and will implement, certain requirements imposed by the WSD. SCE filed an update to its 2020 – 2022 WMP on February 5, 2021 to, among other things, report on implementation of its plan in 2020 and describe new and ongoing wildfire mitigation activities.

Capital Expenditure Requirement

Under AB 1054, approximately $1.6 billion of spending by SCE on wildfire risk mitigation capital expenditures made after August 1, 2019, cannot be included in the equity portion of SCE's rate base. SCE can apply for irrevocable orders from the CPUC to finance these AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures, including through the issuance of securitized bonds, and can recover any prudently incurred financing costs. In November 2020, the CPUC issued an irrevocable order permitting SCE to finance approximately $340 million, comprised of AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures incurred in connection with GS&RP and prudently incurred financing costs, through the issuance of securitized bonds. As of December 31, 2020, SCE has spent $1.3 billion on AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures and expects to spend the remainder of the AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures in the first quarter of 2021. SCE issued securitized bonds in the amount of $338 million in February 2021 and expects to seek additional irrevocable orders from the CPUC to finance the remaining AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures.

For further information, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Initial and annual contributions to the wildfire insurance fund established pursuant to California Assembly Bill 1054" and "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

8

COVID-19

The COVID-19 pandemic is having a significant impact on global society and economies. As a result of the pandemic, Edison International and SCE have experienced increased costs, but the pandemic has not had a pervasive impact on SCE's or Edison International's ability to operate their business. Edison International and SCE have taken steps to mitigate the impacts to operations, with all employees who, in the companies' assessment, can work remotely and perform their job functions effectively, directed to do so. Employees and contract workers designated by California as essential workers continue to work at SCE facilities or in the field to maintain operations and perform critical work to protect public safety and reduce the risk of wildfires. Edison International and SCE have modified work practices, provided personal protective equipment and provided additional employee benefits, among other measures, to reduce the impacts of the pandemic on their workforce.

Decoupling revenue mechanisms in California allow for differences in revenue resulting from actual and forecast volumetric electricity sales to be collected from or refunded to ratepayers and therefore insulate SCE's earnings from reductions in electricity usage. However, the CPUC has implemented certain measures to assist customers during the pandemic, including suspending service disconnections due to nonpayment for residential and small business customers, waiving late payment fees for business customers, and offering flexible payment plans for customers experiencing difficulty paying their electric bills. Accordingly, days outstanding on receivables and uncollectible accounts have increased.

In March 2020, the governor of California announced a statewide emergency as part of the state's response to address the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, SCE established memorandum accounts with CPUC approval, effective March 2020, to track incremental costs associated with the emergency for recovery, subject to CPUC reasonableness reviews.

As a direct result of the pandemic, as of December 31, 2020, SCE has recognized net incremental costs of $191 million primarily related to increased estimates of customer uncollectibles, sequestering certain SCE employees at essential work locations and coordination of SCE's response to the emergency, $176 million has been deferred to memorandum accounts for future CPUC reasonableness review and $15 million has been transferred to balancing accounts pending recovery.

For further information see "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" and "Risk Factors." Legislation was passed in California in September 2020 allowing for securitization of revenue shortfalls associated with the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, subject to approval of a financing order by the CPUC.

2021 General Rate Case

The 2021 GRC consists of four separate tracks. Track 1 is similar to previous GRCs and addresses revenue requirements for the three-year period 2021 – 2023. Tracks 2 and 3 address the reasonableness of 2018 – 2019 and 2020 wildfire mitigation costs that were incremental to amounts authorized in the 2018 GRC, respectively. In January 2020, a CPUC decision introduced a third attrition year in current and future GRCs. As a result, track 4 will address the revenue requirement for 2024. SCE is scheduled to submit its testimony for track 4 in May 2022.

In January 2021, the CPUC approved a settlement between SCE and all the parties to track 2 of the 2021 GRC proceeding (collectively, the "Track 2 Parties"). As a result of the CPUC approval of the GRC track 2 settlement, an additional $41 million ($29 million after-tax) of operations and maintenance expenses were deferred in the fourth quarter of 2020 as probable of recovery. The revenue requirement under the settlement was $391 million. For more information on tracks 2 and 3 of the 2021 GRC, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Regulatory Proceedings—Wildfire Related Regulatory Proceedings—2021 General Rate Case Wildfire Mitigation Memorandum Account Balances."

Track 1 of 2021 GRC 

In the 2021 GRC, SCE has requested a test year revenue requirement of $7.6 billion, an approximately $1.3 billion increase over the 2020 revenue requirement authorized in the 2018 GRC as updated for post test-year ratemaking changes. SCE's request proposes post test-year increases in 2022 and 2023 of $452 million and $524 million, respectively. SCE's request excludes the revenue requirement associated with the approximately $1.6 billion of AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures.

SCE's requested increase to its revenue requirement in the 2021 GRC application is largely due to SCE's efforts to reduce wildfire risk. Certain of SCE's key wildfire mitigation forecast expenditures are subject to significant potential volatility. As a result, SCE has proposed establishing two-way balancing accounts for wildfire mitigation-related enhanced vegetation management, inspection activities and grid hardening, as well as for insurance premiums.

The capital programs requested in SCE's 2021 GRC include the infrastructure and programs necessary to implement California's ambitious public policy goals, including wildfire mitigation, de-carbonization of the economy through electrification and integration of distributed energy resources across a rapidly modernizing grid. See "—Capital Program" for further details.

9

In an amendment submitted in February 2020, SCE removed its CSRP implementation costs from the 2021 GRC. SCE will continue to track the cost of the CSRP implementation in a memorandum account previously approved in the 2018 GRC and seek recovery of the CSRP implementation costs in a future application to be filled with the CPUC.

In April and May 2020, intervenors to the 2021 GRC proceeding, including the CPUC Public Advocates Office ("Cal Advocates") and The Utility Reform Network ("TURN"), submitted testimony in response to SCE's August 2019 application as revised and amended. Cal Advocates proposed reductions to 2021 operation and maintenance spending of $423 million or 15% of the total, and reductions to 2021 capital spending of $445 million or 9% of the total. TURN proposed reductions to 2021 operation and maintenance spending of $556 million or 17% of the total, and reductions to 2021 capital spending of $714 million or 14% of the total. The reductions to capital expenditures proposed by both parties included significant proposed reductions to SCE's Wildfire Covered Conductor Program. If adopted, the proposals of Cal Advocates and TURN would result in a 2021 revenue requirement of approximately $6.9 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively.

SCE believes that receiving a proposed decision on track 1 of the 2021 GRC in the first quarter of 2021 in line with the CPUC’s schedule for track 1 is unlikely. The CPUC has approved the establishment of a memorandum account making the authorized revenue requirement changes effective January 1, 2021. SCE cannot predict the revenue requirement the CPUC will ultimately authorize or forecast the timing of a final decision. SCE expects to recognize revenue based on the 2020 authorized revenue requirement until a GRC decision is issued.

Wildfire Mitigation, Wildfire Insurance and Restoration Expenses

In response to the increase in wildfire activity, and faster progression of and increased damage from wildfires across SCE's service territory and throughout California, SCE is currently incurring wildfire mitigation, wildfire insurance and wildfire and drought restoration related spending at levels significantly exceeding amounts authorized in its 2018 GRC. Several regulatory mechanisms exist to allow SCE to track and seek recovery of these incremental costs through customer rates, or issuance of securitized bonds for AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures. In accordance with the accounting standards applicable to rate-regulated enterprises, SCE defers costs as regulatory assets that are probable of future recovery from customers. For certain wildfire mitigation and wildfire insurance expenses SCE performs its assessment of future recovery after its year to date spending exceeds the amounts authorized for the full calendar year under its current revenue requirement.

As of December 31, 2020, SCE has recognized $886 million of regulatory assets related to incremental wildfire mitigation expenses, including depreciation expense from $1.6 billion of total incremental wildfire mitigation capital expenditures. Additionally, SCE has recognized $356 million of regulatory assets associated with drought and wildfire restoration and $212 million of regulatory assets related to incremental wildfire insurance expenses. While SCE believes such costs are probable of future recovery, there is no assurance that SCE will collect all amounts currently deferred as regulatory assets. In 2020, the CPUC has approved recovery of certain incremental wildfire mitigation and wildfire insurance expenses through SCE's GS&RP and WEMA proceedings. The following table presents changes in wildfire-related and wildfire and drought restoration memorandum account balances in 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes interest expense of $11 million.

At December 31, 2020, the balance includes $405 million of expense approved for recovery in the GRC track 2 proceeding. In February 2021, SCE indicated its intent to seek a financing order from the CPUC to securitize the approved expense. In the event these costs are not authorized for securitization, SCE will include the costs in customer rates as soon as practicable.

For additional information, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Regulatory Proceedings—Wildfire Related Regulatory Proceedings."

10

Electricity Industry Trends

The electric power industry is undergoing transformative change driven by technological advances, such as customer-owned generation, electric vehicles and energy storage, which are altering the nature of energy generation and delivery. California is committed to reducing its GHG emissions, improving local air quality and supporting continued economic growth. The state set goals to reduce GHG emissions by 40% from 1990 levels by 2030 and 80% from the same baseline by 2050. Additionally, the state is aiming to be carbon neutral by 2045. State and local air quality plans call for substantial improvements. In the most polluted areas of the state this includes reducing smog-causing nitrogen oxides 90% below 2010 levels by 2032. While these policy goals cannot be achieved by the electric sector alone, the electric grid is a critical enabler of the adoption of new energy technologies that support California's climate change and GHG reduction objectives. Therefore, California has set RPS targets which require California retail sellers of electricity to provide 60% of energy sales from renewable resources by 2030. California also requires sellers of electricity to deliver 100% of retail sales from carbon free sources by 2045. In 2020 approximately 43% of SCE's customer deliveries came from carbon-free resources. SCE anticipates it will meet California's requirements through 2045.

The new federal administration has also signaled support for increased measures to respond to climate change and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 by having the United States rejoin the Paris Agreement in January 2021 and by issuing executive orders that aim to electrify federal fleets and set electric vehicle charging goals.

Edison International believes that California's 2045 goals can be achieved most economically through emissions reductions from using clean electricity serving 100% of retail sales, electrifying 76% of light-duty vehicles, 67% of medium-duty vehicles, 38% of heavy-duty vehicles, 85% of buses and 70% of buildings and using low-carbon fuels for technologies that are not yet viable for electrification. California has shown strong long-term support of transportation electrification. as shown by the approval of SCE’s Charge Ready 2 program and the Governor of California's September 2020 Executive Order banning sales of new gas vehicles by 2035.

To support these goals, Edison International’s vision is to lead the transformation of the electric power industry and the company is focused on opportunities in delivering clean energy, advancing efficient electrification, building a modernized and more reliable grid, and enabling customers' technology choices. SCE is focused on improving the safety, reliability and resilience of the transmission and distribution network and enabling increased penetration of DERs, electric transportation, building electrification and energy efficiency programs. SCE's ongoing focus to drive operational and service excellence is intended to allow it to achieve these objectives safely while controlling costs and customer rates. SCE's focus on the transmission and distribution of electricity aligns with California's policy supporting competitive power procurement markets. For more information on the grid development, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Capital Investment Plan—Grid Development—Wildfire Mitigation" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Capital Investment Plan—Grid Development—Transportation Electrification."

Changes in the electric power industry are impacting customers and jurisdictions outside California as well. Edison International believes that other states will also pursue climate change and GHG reduction objectives and large commercial and industrial customers will continue to pursue cost reduction and sustainability goals. Edison Energy provides data-driven energy solutions to commercial, institutional and industrial customers who may be impacted by these changes. Edison Energy aims to provide energy solutions that address cost, carbon and complex choices for their customers.

To better engage in this broader transformation and provide a view of developments outside of SCE, Edison International has made several minority investments in emerging companies in areas related to the technology changes that are driving industry transformation and may make additional investments in the future. These investments are not financially material to Edison International.

Capital Program

Total capital expenditures (including accruals) were $5.5 billion in 2020 and $4.8 billion in 2019. SCE's year-end rate base was $34.7 billion at December 31, 2020 compared to $32.6 billion at December 31, 2019, after excluding rate base associated with AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures of $875 million at December 31, 2020 and $252 million at December 31, 2019.

In connection with the 2021 GRC, SCE forecasts capital expenditures of $14.7 billion to $16.2 billion for 2021– 2023. In the absence of a 2021 GRC decision, SCE has developed, and is executing against, a 2021 capital expenditure plan that will allow SCE to meet what is ultimately authorized in the 2021 GRC decision while minimizing the associated risk of unauthorized spending.

The table below reflects capital expenditures for 2021 based on planned CPUC jurisdictional spending and current management expectations of FERC- jurisdictional spending. CPUC jurisdictional spending includes amounts requested in the 

11

2021 GRC, updated in rebuttal testimony, spending associated with SCE's wildfire mitigation-related capital expenditures under the GS&RP and WMP, and other non-GRC CPUC capital spending. The CPUC jurisdictional capital spending in 2022 and 2023 will be dependent upon the amount approved in a final 2021 GRC decision. Forecasted expenditures for FERC capital projects are subject to change due to timeliness of permitting, licensing, regulatory approvals, and contractor bids.

SCE's forecasted capital expenditures for 2021 include approximately $113 million of capital spending on the CSRP project. Total forecasted capital expenditures for the CSRP project are approximately $540 million from inception through 2021. In the 2021 GRC, SCE provided a cost estimate to the CPUC of $308 million in capital expenditures for the CSRP program. In February 2020, SCE filed an update with the CPUC to exclude CSRP implementation costs from rate base and capital expenditures of the 2021 GRC application and to defer review of the reasonableness of the capital expenditures to a future regulatory proceeding SCE expects to file in 2021.

Based on management judgment using historical precedent of previously authorized amounts and potential permitting delays and other operational considerations, a range case has been provided reflecting a 10% reduction on the total capital forecast over the three-year period, 2021 – 2023. The completion of projects, the timing of expenditures, and the associated cost recovery may be affected by permitting requirements and delays, construction schedules, availability of labor, equipment and materials, financing, legal and regulatory approvals and developments, community requests or protests, weather and other unforeseen conditions.

The following table sets forth a summary of capital expenditures for 2020 actual spend and a forecast for 2021 – 2023 on the basis described above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Not applicable

SCE's authorized CPUC-jurisdictional rate base is determined through the GRC and other regulatory proceedings. Differences between actual and CPUC-authorized capital expenditures are addressed in subsequent GRC or other regulatory proceedings. FERC-jurisdictional rate base is generally determined based on actual capital expenditures.

Reflected below is SCE's weighted average annual rate base for 2020 – 2023 incorporating CPUC capital expenditures authorized in the 2018 GRC final decision, expected FERC capital expenditures, capital expenditures included in the 2021 GRC request and approved non-GRC projects or programs. The table below does not reflect the $1.3 billion of AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures to December 31, 2020 or the planned $0.3 billion of such expenditures in 2021. The table below does not reflect rate base associated with non-GRC projects or programs that have not yet been approved by the CPUC, including CSRP and wildfire restoration costs. Inclusion of these in rate base will depend on the timing of regulatory approval. In addition, a third-party holds an option to invest up to $400 million in the West of Devers Transmission project at the estimated in-service date in May 2021. The rate base in the table below is reduced to reflect this option.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Not applicable

 For additional information, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Capital Investment Plan."

12

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

SCE

SCE's results of operations are derived mainly through two sources:

•Earning activities – representing revenue authorized by the CPUC and the FERC which is intended to provide SCE a reasonable opportunity to recover its costs and earn a return on its net investment in generation, transmission and distribution assets. The annual revenue requirements are comprised of authorized operation and maintenance costs, depreciation, taxes and a return consistent with the capital structure. Also, included in earnings activities are revenue or penalties related to incentive mechanisms, other operating revenue and regulatory charges or disallowances.

•Cost-recovery activities – representing CPUC- and FERC-authorized balancing accounts which allow for recovery of specific project or program costs, subject to reasonableness review or compliance with upfront standards. Cost-recovery activities include rates which provide recovery, subject to reasonableness review of, among other things, fuel costs, purchased power costs, public purpose related-program costs (including energy efficiency and demand-side management programs) and certain operation and maintenance expenses. SCE earns no return on these activities.

Impact of 2018 GRC

In May 2019, the CPUC approved a decision in SCE's 2018 GRC. The revenue requirements in the 2018 GRC decision were retroactive to January 1, 2018. SCE recorded the prior period impact of the 2018 GRC decision in the second quarter of 2019 including an increase to earnings of $65 million attributable to 2018 from the application of the decision to revenue, depreciation expense and income tax expense, and an impairment of utility property, plant and equipment of $170 million ($123 million after-tax) related to disallowed historical capital expenditures.

13

Years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018

The following table is a summary of SCE's results of operations for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See use of non-GAAP financial measures in "Management Overview—Highlights of Operating Results."

14

Earning Activities

2020 vs 2019

Earning activities were primarily affected by the following:

•Higher operating revenue of $790 million is primarily due to:

•An increase in CPUC-related revenue of $643 million primarily due to the 2018 GRC decision's escalation mechanism, the reduction to revenue in the second quarter of 2019 due to recording the 2018 impacts of the 2018 GRC decision and higher operating costs subject to balancing account treatment primarily as a result of the approval of the GS&RP balancing account.

•An increase in FERC-related revenue of $140 million primarily due to the $84 million of expected recoveries from customers for the FERC portion of wildfire-related claims in the third quarter of 2020 (see "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides—2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events"), rate base growth and higher operating costs subject to balancing account treatment, partially offset by an increase in revenue in 2019 due to the settlement of SCE's 2018 FERC Formula Rate proceeding in 2019.

•Higher operation and maintenance expenses of $207 million primarily due to:

•Increased expenses of $149 million subject to balancing account treatment primarily as a result of the approval of the GS&RP balancing account.

•Higher employee benefit expenses of $51 million, including $39 million of incentive compensation partly associated with higher overtime and other supplemental wages, and other employee benefit programs.

•Increased expenses related to COVID-19 of $40 million, consisting of $16 million in labor and other expenses resulting from SCE’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic and $24 million of customer uncollectibles expense.

•The $25 million reduction to expenses recorded in the second quarter of 2019 primarily from the 2018 impact of adopting the 2018 GRC decision's change in capitalization rates.

•Higher wildfire insurance expenses of $21 million primarily due to the authorization to recover certain 2018 wildfire insurance expenses reducing expenses in 2019.

•Increased other expenses of $59 million including environmental remediation, worker's compensation and other support functions expenses.

•Decreased expenses of $97 million due to increased regulatory deferrals related to wildfire-mitigation costs including inspections, preventive maintenance and vegetation management costs. Although higher wildfire-mitigation costs were incurred in 2020, a higher proportion of these costs were deferred to wildfire mitigation memorandum accounts.

•Adjustment to 2018 – 2019 regulatory deferrals of $41 million as a result of the approval of CPUC for SCE's track 2 of the GRC proceeding. See "Management Overview—Wildfire Mitigation, Wildfire Insurance and Restoration Expenses" for further information.

•Charges of $1.3 billion and $255 million recorded in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The charges in 2020 and 2019 primarily relate to a change in estimated losses from wildfire-related claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. Also included in the charges are $31 million and $23 million recorded by SCE in 2020 and 2019, respectively, primarily associated with self-insured retention expenses related to other wildfires. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

•Expenses of $336 million and $152 million recorded in 2020 and 2019, respectively, from amortization of Wildfire Insurance Fund contributions. See "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides" for further information.

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense of $238 million primarily due to increased plant balances in 2020 and the 2018 impact of a change in depreciation rates and disallowed historical capital expenditures from adoption of the 2018 GRC decision, recorded in the second quarter of 2019.

•Higher property and other taxes of $39 million primarily due to higher property assessed values in 2020.

15

•Impairment and other (income) expense primarily consists of a gain of $150 million in 2020 related to the sale of San Onofre nuclear fuel and an impairment charge in 2019. Under the terms of the January 2018 settlement of the San Onofre Order Instituting Investigation proceeding, the gain on sale of the nuclear fuel will not be returned to customers. The loss of $159 million in 2019 is primarily due to an impairment charge of $170 million related to the disallowed historical capital expenditures as a result of the 2018 GRC decision in 2019, discussed above.

•Higher interest expense of $19 million primarily due to increased borrowings and lower capitalized interest.

•Higher other income of $30 million primarily due to higher insurance benefits.

•Higher income tax benefit of $48 million primarily due to the impact of lower pre-tax income, partially offset by a tax benefit of $80 million recorded in 2019 as a result of the 2018 GRC decision and an $88 million tax benefit recorded in 2019 related to changes in the allocation of deferred tax re-measurement between customers and shareholders.

•Higher preferred and preference stock dividends of $11 million primarily due to a loss on redemption of preferred securities in 2020.

Cost-Recovery Activities

2020 vs 2019

Cost-recovery activities were primarily affected by the following:

•Higher purchased power and fuel costs of $91 million primarily driven by higher power price and higher energy purchase volume, partially offset by lower contract amendment charges. In addition, CAISO issued invoices that revised FERC tariffs for interest costs associated with scheduling coordinator activities, resulting in a generation surcharge of $59 million reflected as an additional purchased power expense and a transmission refund of $66 million as a reduction in operation and maintenance expense.

•Higher operation and maintenance expenses of $380 million primarily driven by the authorization to recover 2018 through June 2020 wildfire insurance costs above GRC authorized that had been deferred as regulatory assets (see "Management Overview—Wildfire Mitigation, Wildfire Insurance and Restoration Expenses") and higher transmission access charges, partially offset by the CAISO refund of $66 million mentioned above.

•Higher interest expense of $10 million primarily driven by the authorization to recover financing costs associated with incremental 2018 through June 2020 wildfire insurance expenses.

•Higher other income of $30 million primarily driven by higher net periodic benefit income related to the non-service cost components for SCE's other post-retirement benefit plans. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Compensation and Benefit Plans" for further information.

Supplemental Operating Revenue Information

SCE's retail billed and unbilled revenue (excluding wholesale sales) was $12.5 billion, $11.4 billion and $11.7 billion for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

The 2020 revenue increase is primarily related to the 2018 GRC decision's escalation mechanism, the approval of the GS&RP balancing account, higher FERC revenue due to expected recoveries for the FERC portion of wildfire-related claims and higher cost-recovery activities related to authorization to recover 2018 – 2020 wildfire insurance costs that had been deferred as regulatory assets increasing expenses. See "—Cost-Recovery Activities" and "—Earnings Activities" for further details.

As a result of the CPUC-authorized decoupling mechanism, SCE earnings are not affected by changes in retail electricity sales (see "Business—SCE—Overview of Ratemaking Process").

Income Taxes

SCE's income tax benefit increased by $48 million in 2020 compared to 2019. The effective tax rates were (41.7)% and (17.6)% for 2020 and 2019, respectively. SCE's effective tax rate is below the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the CPUC's ratemaking treatment for the current tax benefit arising from certain property-related and other temporary differences, which reverse over time. The accounting treatment for these temporary differences results in recording regulatory assets and liabilities for amounts that would otherwise be recorded to deferred income tax expense. The effective tax rate decrease in 2020 is primarily due to the impact of lower pre-tax income, partially offset by the absence of tax benefit from the adoption of the 2018 GRC final decision and the absence of the 2019 changes in the allocation of deferred tax re-measurement between customers and shareholders that resulted from a CPUC resolution.

16

See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 8. Income Taxes" for a reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective income tax rates.

Edison International Parent and Other

Results of operations for Edison International Parent and Other includes amounts from other subsidiaries that are not significant as a reportable segment as well as intercompany eliminations.

Loss from Operations

The following table summarizes the results of Edison International Parent and Other:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See use of non-GAAP financial measures in "Management Overview—Highlights of Operating Results."

The loss from operations of Edison International Parent and Other decreased $54 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to gain of $132 million ($96 million after-tax) recorded in 2020 for the sale of the Vidalia Lease, partially offset by higher interest expense as a result of increased borrowings.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

SCE

SCE's ability to operate its business, fund capital expenditures and implement its business strategy is dependent upon its cash flow and access to the bank and capital markets. SCE's overall cash flows fluctuate based on, among other things, its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates, changes in commodity prices and volumes, collateral requirements, interest obligations, dividend payments to and equity contributions from Edison International, obligations to preference shareholders, and the outcome of tax and regulatory matters.

SCE's costs of accessing capital markets has increased due to the risks associated with wildfires in California. Wildfire activity and the COVID-19 pandemic may cause narrower access to, or further increased costs of accessing, bank and capital markets. For further details, see "Management Overview—COVID-19" and "—Available Liquidity."

In the next 12 months, SCE expects to fund its cash requirements through operating cash flows, capital market financings, and equity contributions from Edison International Parent, as needed. SCE also has availability under its credit facilities to fund cash requirements. 

At December 31, 2020 SCE had spent approximately $1.3 billion of the total approximately $1.6 billion of AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures, SCE expects to finance these amounts by issuing securitized bonds. In February 2021 SCE issued securitized bonds in the amount of $338 million. SCE expects to securitize the remaining balance of AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures based on the timing of the CPUC approving wildfire mitigation capital expenditures and related financing costs. For further information, see "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides." Prior to issuance of such bonds, SCE is using a term loan of $475 million and floating rate first and refunding mortgage bonds of $900 million to finance AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures. Additionally, SCE has several credit facilities available to support its AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures. For further information, see "—Available Liquidity."

SCE expects to issue additional debt to finance payments for future resolutions of claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events that exceed insurance. To enable SCE to issue the necessary debt and to allow Edison International and SCE to maintain investment grade credit ratings and based on SCE's best estimate of expected losses for remaining alleged and potential claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, Edison International anticipates issuing securities with up to $1.0 billion of equity content to invest in SCE, during 2021.

In the third quarter of 2020, SCE redeemed $120 million of cumulative preferred stock, which were all of the outstanding shares of SCE's preferred stock, and $180 million of SCE's Series G Preference Stock. For further details, see "Notes to 

17

Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 14. Equity." The redemption reduces the preferred equity component of SCE's capital structure from 9% to 5%, bringing it in line with the capital structure authorized in the 2020 Cost of Capital decision.

In January 2021, SCE issued $750 million and $150 million in first and refunding mortgage bonds due in 2051 and 2030, respectively. The proceeds were primarily used to repay SCE's commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes.

SCE's long-term issuer credit ratings are at investment grade levels. However, during the third quarter of 2020, the S&P rating outlooks for all three investor-owned utilities in California were revised to negative due to unprecedented wildfire activity throughout California in August and September of 2020. SCE's ratings outlook from Moody's and Fitch has remained stable despite 2020 wildfire activity due to the reduced financial risk that wildfires pose to SCE following enactment of AB 1054. For further information, see "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

The following table summarizes SCE's current, long-term issuer credit ratings and outlook from the major credit rating agencies:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SCE's credit ratings may be further affected if, among other things, regulators fail to successfully implement AB 1054 in a consistent and credit supportive manner or the Wildfire Insurance Fund is depleted by claims from catastrophic wildfires. The broad economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect SCE's credit ratings. For further information see "Management Overview—COVID-19" and "Risk Factors." Credit rating downgrades increase the cost and may impact the availability of short-term and long-term borrowings, including commercial paper, credit facilities, bond financings or other borrowings. In addition, some of SCE's power procurement contracts would require SCE to pay related liabilities or post additional collateral if SCE's credit rating were to fall below investment grade. Incremental collateral requirements for power procurement contracts resulting from a potential downgrade of SCE's credit rating to below investment grade are $31 million as of December 31, 2020. In addition, if SCE's credit rating falls below investment grade, it may be required to post up to $50 million in collateral in connection with its environmental remediation obligations, within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year in which the downgrade occurs. Furthermore, if SCE was downgraded below investment grade, counterparties may also institute new collateral requirements for future transactions. For further details, see "—Margin and Collateral Deposits."

The cost of capital mechanism set by the CPUC could impact SCE's results of operations and cash flows. The benchmark value for the current mechanism is the 12-month, October 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019, average Moody’s Baa utility bond yield of 4.5%. If the difference between the benchmark and the average of the same index for the 12-month period to September 30, 2021 exceeds 100-basis points, SCE's CPUC-authorized ROE will be adjusted for 2022 by half the amount of the difference (up or down). If the mechanism is triggered SCE's costs of long-term debt and preferred equity will also be adjusted for 2022 to reflect the then current embedded costs and projected interest rates. The average Moody's Baa utility bond yield between October 1, 2020 and January 31, 2021 was 3.17%. SCE is required to file its next cost of capital application by April 2022 for rates effective beginning January 2023. For further information see "Business—SCE—Overview of Ratemaking Process."

18

Available Liquidity

At December 31, 2020, SCE had cash on hand of $55 million.

The following table summarizes the status of SCE's credit facilities at December 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1This credit facility may be extended for two 364-day periods, at the lenders' discretion. The aggregate maximum principal amount may be increased up to $1.1 billion, provided that additional lender commitments are obtained.

2SCE expects to securitize these borrowings as AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures. SCE intends to secure, or extend, short-term debt financing where necessary until securitization is executed.

3The aggregate maximum principal amount under this revolving credit facility may be increased up to $4.0 billion, provided that additional lender commitments are obtained. The credit facility may be extended for one additional year with the lenders' approval.

SCE may finance balancing account undercollections and working capital requirements to support operations and capital expenditures with commercial paper, its credit facilities or other borrowings, subject to availability in the bank and capital markets. As necessary, SCE will utilize its available liquidity, capital market financings, other borrowings or parent company contributions to SCE equity in order to meet its obligations as they become due, including costs related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. For further information, see "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

Debt Covenant

SCE's credit facilities and term loan require a debt to total capitalization ratio as defined in the applicable agreements of less than or equal to 0.65 to 1. At December 31, 2020, SCE's debt to total capitalization ratio was 0.51 to 1.

At December 31, 2020, SCE was in compliance with all financial covenants that affect access to capital.

Regulatory Proceedings

Wildfire Related Regulatory Proceedings

Grid Safety and Resiliency Program

In April 2020, the CPUC approved a settlement agreement between SCE and certain parties to SCE's GS&RP proceeding. Under the settlement, SCE is authorized to spend approximately $599 million ($476 million capital) between 2018 and 2020. Upon approval by the CPUC in July 2020, SCE established a balancing account to track the difference between actual GS&RP costs and amounts authorized. SCE included the authorized revenue requirement, other than for $304 million of AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures, in rates on October 1, 2020 and securitized the portion of AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures. For further information, see "—SCE."

GS&RP capital expenditures through 2020 were $978 million, of which $502 million was above the authorized amount and will be subject to reasonableness review in track 3 of the 2021 GRC, described below. GS&RP incremental operations and 

19

maintenance expenses through 2020 of $110 million are within the amount authorized in the settlement agreement and SCE included this amount in rates on October 1, 2020.

Wildfire Mitigation Plans

SCE's WMPs describe strategies, programs and activities that are in place, being implemented or are under development by SCE, including associated cost estimates, to reduce the risk of SCE equipment contributing to the ignition of wildfires.

SCE filed its 2020 – 2022 WMP and its 2021 update to its 2020 – 2022 WMP with the CPUC in February 2020 and February 2021, respectively. Many, but not all, of the programs and activities described in SCE's 2020 – 2022 WMP and the 2021 update are part of SCE's 2021 GRC requests or GS&RP application. For further information, see "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

SCE recorded $229 million and $307 million of expenses in the WMP memorandum account during 2020 and 2019, respectively. WMP capital expenditures not authorized in the 2018 GRC or contemplated in the GS&RP proceedings were $190 million and $335 million during 2020 and 2019, respectively.

Expenses from 2018 and 2019 will be recovered in accordance with the GRC track 2 settlement. Expenses from 2020 are subject to reasonableness review through track 3 of the 2021 GRC, described below.

Fire Hazard Prevention Memorandum Account

The FHPMA was established to record the costs incurred related to fire hazard prevention in compliance with decisions from the CPUC. SCE has used the FHPMA to track incremental vegetation management activities undertaken to reduce the risk of fires. SCE recorded expenses of $252 million and $167 million during 2020 and 2019, respectively in the FHPMA.

Expenses from 2018 and 2019 will be recovered in accordance with the GRC track 2 settlement. Expenses from 2020 are subject to reasonableness review through track 3 of the 2021 GRC, described below.

2021 General Rate Case Wildfire Mitigation Memorandum Account Balances

SCE's GRC track 2 expenditures predominantly related to enhanced overhead inspections, an expanded vegetation management program and expert consultant contract labor costs supporting SCE's wildfire mitigation activities. The majority of these expenditures were recorded in the WMP memorandum account and the FHPMA described above.

In October 2020, SCE and the Track 2 Parties filed a motion with the CPUC seeking approval of a settlement among the Track 2 Parties regarding all issues in track 2. The settlement, approved by the CPUC on January 14, 2021, deemed all requested capital expenditures of $302 million and $401 million of operations and maintenance expenditures as reasonably incurred. The CPUC approval of the GRC track 2 settlement led to a $41 million adjustment to regulatory deferrals for 2018 – 2019. The revenue requirement under the settlement was $391 million, after adjusting for flow through taxes. Due to the determination that the AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures associated with the GS&RP were reasonably incurred they were eligible for recovery through securitization, and were not part of the settlement revenue requirement. Securitization of the GS&RP capital expenditures subject to the settlement was completed in February 2021. For information on AB 1054 Excluded Capital Expenditures, see "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides—2019 Wildfire Legislation—Capital Expenditure Requirement" and "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."

Incremental wildfire mitigation costs from 2020, including the $502 million of GS&RP capital expenditures above settled amounts, are to be reviewed in track 3 of the 2021 GRC proceeding, which will be filed in March 2021. The schedule for SCE's 2021 GRC includes a proposed decision on track 3 in the first quarter of 2022.

Wildfire Expense Memorandum Accounts

SCE tracks insurance premium costs related to wildfire liability insurance policies as well as other wildfire-related costs in its WEMAs. In September 2020, the CPUC approved SCE's WEMA application to recover $478 million in wildfire insurance premium costs to June 30, 2020 incurred in excess of premiums approved in the 2018 GRC and corresponding financing costs. The decision authorized SCE to collect a total revenue requirement of $505 million over a two-year period. SCE included the authorized revenue requirement in rates in October 2020 and the related costs previously deferred in WEMA were transferred to the BRRBA for collection from customers.

In December 2020, SCE filed a second WEMA application with the CPUC to seek recovery of $215 million of costs recorded in WEMA at December 31, 2020. The costs primarily related to incremental wildfire insurance premium expenses and 

20

associated costs for wildfire liability insurance policies that provide coverage for the last six months of 2020. SCE has requested a final decision in the second WEMA proceeding that would allow these costs to be recovered in rates beginning in 2022.

Catastrophic Emergency Memorandum Accounts - Drought and 2017 Wildfires

In July 2019, SCE filed an application to recover $79 million in incremental operations and maintenance drought costs incurred from 2017 – 2018 and $8 million of wildfire restoration costs associated with 2017 wildfires. A CPUC decision is expected in the summer of 2021. SCE has continued to incur incremental costs associated with California's drought and at December 31, 2020, SCE has recorded $153 million in a CEMA in relation to these events, including amounts subject to the current proceeding.

2020 Emergency Wildfire Restoration

Multiple wildfires occurred during 2020 causing damage within SCE's service territory and in the region of SCE's Big Creek hydroelectric facility. Restoration work is ongoing in relation to these wildfires. As of December 31, 2020, SCE has recorded $202 million of incremental operation and maintenance expenses in a CEMA in relation to these wildfires. At December 31, 2020 SCE has recorded $410 million of capital expenditures in relation to these restoration efforts. SCE expects to request recovery of incremental portions of these amounts through future CPUC proceedings.

Phase I Decision in Disconnections OIR

In June 2020, the CPUC issued a final decision on the first phase of the ongoing proceeding Order Instituting Rulemaking to Consider New Approaches to Disconnections and Reconnections to Improve Energy Access and Contain Costs ("Disconnections OIR"). This decision applies only to SCE's residential customers and requires the creation of an arrearage management program to forgive a portion of certain low income customers' past arrears as long as they remain current on monthly billing, prohibits use of establishment of credit or reestablishment of service deposits, and caps SCE's disconnection rate. SCE's disconnection rate will be capped at 8% in 2020 and will reduce by 1% each year until 2024.

The decision required SCE to establish a two-way balancing account to reflect the actual costs of disconnections in customer rates and to establish a memorandum account to track the costs of implementing the decision.

In November 2020, the CPUC approved SCE's residential uncollectible balancing account ("RUBA") and the residential disconnections implementation cost memorandum account resulting from the OIR to be effective beginning in June 11, 2020. In December 2020 the CPUC approved the arrearage management plan in line with proposals from SCE, PG&E and SDG&E to include costs for forgiven arrearages in the RUBA and collected through annual updates to customer rates.

Energy Efficiency Incentive Mechanism

The CPUC uses an energy efficiency incentive mechanism called the Efficiency Savings and Performance Incentive Mechanism ("ESPI") to promote energy efficiency programs through California's investor owned utilities. The ESPI is comprised of performance and savings rewards and management fees based on actual energy efficiency expenditures and does not contain any provisions for penalties. The ESPI schedule anticipates payments of the incentive rewards occurring between one and two years after the relevant program year.

SCE requested an award of approximately $10 million in incentives for activities in program years 2018 and 2019. The request was approved in February 2021. This will be the last award before the CPUC directed moratorium on energy efficiency incentive award earnings becomes effective for all IOUs starting in 2021, as the CPUC considers reforming the program for the goals of its current energy efficiency policy.

As a component of SCE's energy efficiency programs, from 2017 – 2019, SCE administered the Upstream Lighting Program, part of a statewide program administered by investor-owned utilities that offered discounted energy efficient light bulbs to customers through incentives to lighting manufacturers. The CPUC began investigating the programs administered by the investor-owned utilities based on reports that investor-owned utilities, including SCE, shipped a significant number of bulbs under the program that could not be tracked to customers. Beginning in January 2020, the CPUC has sought comments on remedies related to SCE's implementation of the Upstream Lighting Program from 2017 through 2019 program years. SCE undertook an independent investigation of bulbs shipped to retailers categorized as grocery and discount businesses during the 2017 to 2019 program years and found that there was overstocking of bulbs and program management shortcomings. Incentives paid to manufacturers for bulbs shipped to grocery and discount businesses during the relevant period, including those that were sold to customers, were approximately $91 million.

21

In January 2021, the Public Advocates Office and The Utility Reform Network provided comments to the CPUC arguing that SCE imprudently managed the program and requesting a total of $265 million refund to address the findings. For further information, refer to "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Upstream Lightening Program."

2019 FERC Formula Rate Settlement

In September 2020, the FERC approved a settlement of SCE's formula rates for the 2019 Formula Rate case ("2019 Formula Rate Settlement"). The settlement establishes SCE's FERC transmission revenue requirement for the 2019 FERC Settlement Period. SCE is permitted to request a new formula rate after December 31, 2021, the end of the 2019 FERC Settlement Period. The settlement provides for a total ROE of 10.30% inclusive of CAISO and transmission incentive adders. The settlement also provides that SCE's capital structure for purposes of its formula rate will reflect the higher of SCE's actual equity ratio or 47.50%. The transmission revenue requirement and rates that have been billed to customers prior to the implementation of the 2019 Formula Rate Settlement utilized a base ROE of 11.97%. SCE expects to refund the excess amounts billed to customers through the operation of the Formula Rate in 2021 and 2022. SCE had been recognizing revenue based on the expected outcome of this settlement and the impact of recording the settlement was not material.

2021 FERC Formula Rate Annual Update

SCE filed its 2021 annual update with the FERC in November 2020, with the proposed rates effective January 1, 2021. The update reflects an increase in SCE's transmission revenue requirement of $124 million or 12.9% higher than amounts included in 2020 annual rates. The increase is primarily due to growth in rate base and the effect of refunds from the annual FERC Formula Rate true-up mechanism on 2020 rates.

Capital Investment Plan

Major Transmission Projects

A summary of SCE's most significant transmission and substation construction projects during the next three years is presented below. The timing of the projects below is subject to timely receipt of permitting, licensing and regulatory approvals.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Direct expenditures include direct labor, land and contract costs incurred for the respective projects and exclude overhead costs that are included in the capital expenditures forecast discussed in "Management Overview—Capital Program."

2 Includes the original estimated project cost for Alberhill. In January 2020, SCE submitted a supplemental analysis to the CPUC which included alternative projects as well as an update to the original project cost. SCE is unable to predict the timing of a final CPUC decision, the corresponding in-service date, and what the final project costs will be for the Alberhill System Project.

West of Devers

The West of Devers Project consists of upgrading and reconfiguring approximately 48 miles of existing 220-kV transmission lines between the Devers, El Casco, Vista and San Bernardino substations, increasing the power transfer capabilities in support of California's renewable portfolio standards goals.

In January 2021, SCE notified the CAISO and Morongo Transmission LLC, of an estimated in-service date of May 15, 2021. SCE expects Morongo Transmission LLC to exercise an option to invest in the project within 30 days of the in-service date, subject to regulatory approvals. SCE expects to receive up to $400 million in the second or third quarter of 2021 as a result of the investment, which will reduce SCE's rate base as reflected in SCE's rate base forecast. For further details see "—Management Overview—Capital Program."

22

Mesa Substation

The Mesa Substation Project consists of replacing the existing 220-kV Mesa Substation with a new 500/220-kV substation. The Mesa Substation Project will address reliability concerns by providing additional transmission import capability, allowing greater flexibility in the siting of new generation, and reducing the total amount of new generation required to meet local reliability needs in the Western Los Angeles Basin area. In October 2019, SCE achieved first energization of the new substation. The remaining phases of construction will be put out for competitive bid and SCE expects that costs associated with the project may change as a result of the competitive bidding process. SCE anticipates project completion in the first quarter of 2022.

Riverside Transmission Reliability

The Riverside Transmission Reliability Project is a joint project between SCE and Riverside Public Utilities ("RPU"), the municipal utility department of the City of Riverside. While RPU would be responsible for constructing some of the project's facilities within Riverside, SCE's portion of the project consists of constructing upgrades to its system, including a new 230-kV Substation; certain interconnection and telecommunication facilities and transmission lines in the cities of Riverside, Jurupa Valley and Norco and in portions of unincorporated Riverside County. The purpose of the project is to provide RPU and its customers with adequate transmission capacity to serve existing and projected load, to provide for long-term system capacity for load growth, and to provide needed system reliability.

In October 2018, the CPUC issued an environmental report that identified a new route alternative, as the environmentally preferred project and proposed an additional underground section of the proposed 220-kV power line. In March 2020, the alternative project with revised scope and an updated cost of $584 million was approved by CPUC. The scheduled in-service date of the project has been extended from 2024 to 2026.

In June 2020, SCE filed a petition with the FERC seeking authorization to recover SCE's prudently incurred costs if the project is cancelled or abandoned for reasons beyond SCE's control, and inclusion of 100% of the project's network transmission Construction Work In Progress in transmission rate base during the construction period. In September 2020, the FERC issued orders granting SCE's requests. SCE is allowed to seek recovery of 100% of all prudently incurred costs after September 17, 2020 and 50% of prudently incurred costs prior to that date.

Alberhill System

The Alberhill System Project would consist of constructing a new 500-kV substation, two 500-kV transmission lines to connect the proposed substation to the existing Serrano-Valley 500-kV transmission line, telecommunication equipment and subtransmission lines in unincorporated and incorporated portions of western Riverside County. The project was designed to meet long-term forecasted electrical demand in the proposed Alberhill System Project area and to increase electrical system reliability and resiliency. In August 2018, the CPUC issued a decision that did not deny or approve the Alberhill System Project but directed SCE to submit supplemental information on the Alberhill System Project including but not limited to a load forecast and cost benefit analysis of several alternatives to the proposed project. Ongoing capital spending has been deferred as a result of the CPUC request for additional information. In January 2020, SCE submitted a supplemental analysis to the CPUC for the Alberhill System Project including several system alternatives to the proposed project as well as an update to the original project cost. A final decision on the Alberhill System Project is pending based on the supplemental analysis. Given the uncertainty associated with the resolution of the permitting process, potential revisions to the project have not been reflected in total direct expenditures. SCE continues to believe a system solution is needed for the project area but is unable to predict the timing of a final CPUC decision in connection with the Alberhill System Project proceeding.

Approximately 48% of the Alberhill System Project costs spent to date would be subject to recovery through CPUC revenue and 52% through FERC revenue. In October 2017, SCE obtained approval from the FERC for abandoned plant treatment for the Alberhill System Project, which allows SCE to seek recovery of 100% of all prudently incurred costs after the approval date and 50% of prudently incurred costs prior to the approval date. Excluding land costs, which may be recovered through sale to a third party, SCE has incurred approximately $50 million of direct capital expenditures, including direct division overhead costs, as of December 31, 2020, of which approximately $36 million may not be recoverable if the project is cancelled.

Eldorado-Lugo-Mohave Upgrade

The Eldorado-Lugo-Mohave Upgrade Project will increase capacity on existing transmission lines to allow additional renewable energy to flow from Nevada to southern California. The project would modify SCE's existing Eldorado, Lugo, and Mohave electrical substations to accommodate the increased flows from Nevada to southern California; increase the power flow through the existing 500-kV transmission lines by constructing two new capacitors along the lines; raise transmission 

23

tower heights to meet ground clearance requirements; and install fiber optics on the transmission lines to provide communications between existing SCE substations. In April 2019, as directed by the CPUC, SCE filed an amended application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity ("CPCN") with the CPUC for project costs totaling $257 million. A subsequent change to the project work scope reduced the project total cost to $247 million, a decrease of $10 million as compared to when the amended application was filed. In August 2020, the CPUC approved the CPCN for the project. Construction for the project began in November 2020 and the project is expected to be operational in June 2022. On January 20, 2021, the Secretary of the Interior issued a suspension order that effectively placed a 60-day hold on any new project construction on federal land. The new order may delay when the project becomes operational.

Grid Development - Wildfire Mitigation

See "—Regulatory Proceedings—Wildfire Related Regulatory Proceedings."

Grid Development - Transportation Electrification Programs

Charge Ready Programs

In January 2016, the CPUC approved SCE's $22 million Charge Ready Pilot, which allowed SCE to install light-duty electric vehicle charging infrastructure, provide rebates to offset the cost of qualified customer-owned charging stations, and implement a supporting marketing, education and outreach campaign. In December 2018, the CPUC approved Charge Ready Bridge, an additional $22 million of bridge funding to continue electrification efforts while the application for Charge Ready 2 was pending. As of December 31, 2020, SCE completed construction at 81 sites to support 1,301 charge ports under Charge Ready Pilot, and 63 sites to support 1,419 charge ports under Charge Ready Bridge.

In August 2020, the CPUC approved SCE's Charge Ready 2 program. The final decision authorized a budget of $436 million ($314 million capital) in 2018 dollars for a four-year program to support approximately 37,800 light-duty electric vehicle charging ports through an infrastructure program, rebates for charging infrastructure in new multi-unit dwelling construction, and marketing, education, and outreach. The program is expected to add approximately $400 million to SCE's rate base by 2026.

Medium- and Heavy-Duty Vehicle Transportation Electrification

In January 2017, SCE filed an application with the CPUC requesting approval of transportation electrification programs to accelerate the adoption of electric transportation, which is critical to California's climate change and GHG reduction objectives. In May 2018, the CPUC issued a final decision approving a five-year program to install charging infrastructure to support the electrification of 8,490 medium- and heavy-duty electric vehicles at 870 sites, which must be fully contracted for by 2024. The final decision includes an approved five-year budget of $356 million ($242 million capital) in nominal dollars. SCE expects to propose additional programs and pilots in the future.

Decommissioning of San Onofre

The decommissioning of a nuclear plant requires the management of three related activities: radiological decommissioning, non-radiological decommissioning and the management of spent nuclear fuel. SCE has engaged a decommissioning general contractor to undertake a significant scope of decommissioning activities for Units 1, 2 and 3 at San Onofre. The decommissioning of San Onofre is expected to take many years.

Decommissioning of San Onofre Unit 1 began in 1999 and the transfer of spent nuclear fuel from Unit 1 to dry cask storage in the Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation ("ISFSI") was completed in 2005. Major decommissioning work for Unit 1 has been completed except for certain underground work. 

Decommissioning of San Onofre Units 2 and 3 began in June 2013 and the transfer of spent nuclear fuel from San Onofre Units 2 and 3 to dry cask storage in the ISFSI was completed in August 2020. In October 2019, the California Coastal Commission approved SCE's application for the Coastal Development Permit, the principal discretionary permit required to start major decommissioning activities at San Onofre Units 1 and 2. In August 2020, SCE commenced major decommissioning activities at San Onofre in accordance with the terms of the permit. In 2021, SCE will continue major decommissioning activities in accordance with the terms of the permit, subject to any court rulings in a proceeding brought in December 2019 to challenge the California Coastal Commission's issuance of the permit.

In December 2018, SCE updated its decommissioning cost estimate for decommissioning activities to be completed at San Onofre Units 2 and 3 to $3.4 billion (SCE share is $2.5 billion) in 2017 dollars. That decommissioning cost estimate included costs through the expected decommissioning completion date, then estimated to be in 2051 for San Onofre Units 2 and 3. SCE anticipates updating its decommissioning cost estimate for San Onofre Units 2 and 3, including expected 

24

decommissioning completion dates, in 2021. Decommissioning cost estimates are subject to a number of uncertainties including the cost of disposal of nuclear waste, cost of removal of property, site remediation costs as well as a number of other assumptions and estimates, including when the federal government will provide for either interim or permanent off-site storage of spent nuclear fuel enabling the removal and transport of spent fuel canisters from the San Onofre site, as to which there can be no assurance. Cost estimates are subject to change as decommissioning proceeds and such changes may be material. 

SCE had nuclear decommissioning trust funds for San Onofre Units 2 and 3 of $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2020. Based upon the resolution of a number of uncertainties, including the cost and timing of nuclear waste disposal, the time it will take to obtain required permits, cost of removal of property, site remediation costs, the financial performance of the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments, as well as the resolution of a number of other assumptions and estimates, additional contributions to the nuclear decommissioning trust funds may be required. If additional contributions to the nuclear decommissioning trust funds become necessary, SCE will seek recovery of such additional funds through electric rates and any such recovery will be subject to a reasonableness review by the CPUC. Cost increases resulting from contractual disputes or significant permitting delays, among other things, could cause SCE to materially overrun the decommissioning cost estimate and could materially impact the sufficiency of trust funds. 

SCE's share of the San Onofre decommissioning costs recorded during 2020 were $223 million. In December 2020, the CPUC approved disbursements from SCE's nuclear decommissioning trusts to cover forecasted 2021 decommissioning costs, of which SCE's share is $331 million. The CPUC conducts a reasonableness review of each year's recorded costs. 

SCE Dividends

CPUC holding company rules require that SCE's dividend policy be established by SCE's Board of Directors on the same basis as if SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the capital requirements of SCE, as deemed to be necessary to meet SCE's electricity service obligations, shall receive first priority from the Boards of Directors of both Edison International and SCE. In addition, the CPUC regulates SCE's capital structure which limits the dividends it may pay to its shareholders.

Effective January 1, 2020, the common equity component of SCE's CPUC authorized capital structure was increased from 48% to 52% on a weighted average basis over the January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2022 compliance period. For further information, see "Business—SCE—Overview of Ratemaking Process." Under AB 1054, the impact of SCE's contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund are excluded from the measurement of SCE's CPUC-jurisdictional authorized capital structure. For further information, see "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

In May 2020, the CPUC issued a decision on SCE's application to the CPUC for waiver of compliance with its equity ratio requirement, that allows SCE to exclude from its equity ratio calculations (i) net charges accrued in connection with the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events and (ii) debt issued for the purpose of paying claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events up to an amount equal to the net charges accrued in connection with the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. The temporary exclusion will lapse on May 7, 2022 or when a determination regarding cost recovery for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events is made, whichever comes earlier. If the CPUC has not made a determination regarding cost recovery by May 7, 2022, SCE is permitted to file another application for a waiver of compliance with its equity ratio requirement. In the interim, SCE is required to notify the CPUC if an adverse financial event reduces SCE's spot equity ratio by more than one percent from the level most recently filed with the CPUC in the proceeding. The last spot equity ratio SCE filed with the CPUC in the proceeding did not exclude the then $1.8 billion net charge and was 45.2% as of December 31, 2018 (at the time the common equity component of SCE's CPUC authorized capital structure was required to remain at or above 48% on a weighted average basis over the applicable 37-month period). SCE's spot equity ratio on December 31, 2018 would have been 48.7% had the $1.8 billion net charge at December 31, 2018 been excluded, therefore SCE will notify the CPUC if its spot ratio drops below 47.7% in any quarter. For further information, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

SCE monitors its compliance with the CPUC's equity ratio requirement based on the weighted average of the common equity component of SCE's CPUC authorized capital structure over the Capital Structure Compliance Period using its actual capital structure from the beginning of the Capital Structure Compliance Period through the reporting date together with forecasted performance and expected financing activities for the remainder of the Capital Structure Compliance Period. SCE expects to be compliant with its CPUC authorized capital structure at December 31, 2022.

As a California corporation, SCE's ability to pay dividends is also governed by the California General Corporation Law. California law requires that for a dividend to be declared: (a) retained earnings must equal or exceed the proposed dividend, or (b) immediately after the dividend is made, the value of the corporation's assets must exceed the value of its liabilities plus 

25

amounts required to be paid, if any, in order to liquidate stock senior to the shares receiving the dividend. Additionally, a California corporation may not declare a dividend if it is, or as a result of the dividend would be, likely to be unable to meet its liabilities as they mature. Prior to declaring dividends, SCE's Board of Directors evaluates available information, including when applicable, information pertaining to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, to ensure that the California law requirements for the declarations are met. On February 25, 2021, SCE declared a dividend to Edison International of $325 million.

The timing and amount of future dividends are also dependent on a number of other factors including SCE's requirements to fund other obligations and capital expenditures, its ability to access the capital markets, and generate operating cash flows and earnings. If SCE incurs significant costs related to catastrophic wildfires, including the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, and is unable to recover such costs through insurance, the Wildfire Insurance Fund (for fires after July 12, 2019), or from customers or is unable to access capital markets on reasonable terms, SCE may be limited in its ability to pay future dividends to Edison International and its preference shareholders.

Margin and Collateral Deposits

Certain derivative instruments, power and energy procurement contracts and other contractual arrangements contain collateral requirements. In addition, certain environmental remediation obligations require financial assurance that may be in the form of collateral postings. Future collateral requirements may differ from the requirements at December 31, 2020 due to the addition of incremental power and energy procurement contracts with collateral requirements, if any, the impact of changes in wholesale power and natural gas prices on SCE's contractual obligations, and the impact of SCE's credit ratings falling below investment grade.

The table below provides the amount of collateral posted by SCE to its counterparties as well as the potential collateral that would have been required as of December 31, 2020 if SCE's credit rating had been downgraded to below investment grade as of that date. The table below also provides the potential collateral that could be required due to adverse changes in wholesale power and natural gas prices over the remaining lives of existing power and energy procurement contracts.

In addition to amounts shown in the table, power and fuel contract counterparties may also institute new collateral requirements, applicable to future transactions to allow SCE to continue trading in power and fuel contracts at the time of a downgrade. Furthermore, SCE may also be required to post up to $50 million in collateral in connection with its environmental remediation obligations, within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year in which the downgrade occurs.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Net collateral provided to counterparties and other brokers consisted of $160 million in letters of credit and surety bonds, $4 million of cash collateral which was offset against net derivative liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets, and $13 million of cash collateral which was reflected in "Other current assets" on the consolidated balance sheets.

2 Represents collateral requirements for accounts payable and market-to market valuation at the end of period. Requirement varies throughout the period and is generally lower at the end of the month.

3 Incremental collateral requirements were based on potential changes in SCE's forward positions as of December 31, 2020 due to adverse market price movements over the remaining lives of the existing power contracts using a 95% confidence level.

26

Regulatory Balancing and Memorandum Accounts

SCE's cash flows are affected by regulatory balancing and memorandum accounts overcollections or undercollections. Overcollections and undercollections represent differences between cash collected in current rates for specified forecasted costs and the costs actually incurred. With some exceptions, SCE seeks to adjust rates on an annual basis or at other designated times to recover or refund the balances recorded in its balancing accounts. Undercollections or overcollections in these balancing and memorandum accounts impact cash flows and can change rapidly. Undercollections and overcollections generally accrue interest based on a three-month commercial paper rate published by the Federal Reserve.

As of December 31, 2020, SCE had net undercollections of $1.4 billion for regulatory balancing and memorandum accounts, primarily consisting of undercollections related to wildfire mitigation and restoration costs, BRRBA, and COVID-19 related costs, offset by overcollections from public purpose-related programs. Overcollections from public purpose-related programs may decrease as costs are incurred to fund programs established by the CPUC. Undercollections related to BRRBA are expected to decrease as reclassifications of WEMA related undercollections and GS&RP spending are included in customer rates in 2021 and beyond. For further information see "—Historical Cash Flows—SCE." SCE is currently incurring wildfire-related spending at levels significantly exceeding amounts authorized in the 2018 GRC and has recognized regulatory assets for certain of these costs. In July 2020, the CPUC approved establishment of the COVID-19 Pandemic Protection Memorandum Account ("CPPMA"), to track incremental consumer protection costs for residential and small commercial customers. A CEMA is used to track other incremental COVID-19 costs, including costs of sequestering employees at essential work locations. Total spending on COVID-19 costs are expected to continue at higher levels in 2021. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for further information.

Edison International Parent and Other

In the next 12 months, Edison International expects to fund its net cash requirements through cash on hand, dividends from SCE, and capital market and bank financings. Edison International may finance its ongoing cash requirements, including common stock dividends, working capital requirements, payment of obligations, and capital investments, including capital contributions to subsidiaries, with short-term or other financings, subject to availability in the bank and capital markets.

Edison International's costs of accessing capital markets has increased due to the risks associated with wildfires in California. Wildfire activity and the COVID-19 pandemic may cause narrower access to, or further increased costs of accessing, bank and capital markets. For further details, see "Management Overview—COVID-19."

At December 31, 2020, Edison International Parent had cash on hand of $32 million and $1.4 billion available to borrow on its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility. The credit facility is available for borrowing needs until May 2024, and may be extended for one additional year with the lenders' approval. Under certain circumstances, the aggregate maximum principal amount under the credit facility may be increased up to $2.0 billion, provided additional lender commitments are obtained.

Edison International Parent and Other's liquidity and its ability to pay operating expenses and pay dividends to common shareholders are dependent on access to the bank and capital markets, dividends from SCE, realization of tax benefits and its ability to meet California law requirements for the declaration of dividends. Prior to declaring dividends, Edison International's Board of Directors evaluates available information, including when applicable, information pertaining to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, to ensure that the California law requirements for the declarations are met. For information on the California law requirements on the declaration of dividends, see "—SCE—SCE Dividends." Edison International intends to maintain its target payout ratio of 45% – 55% of SCE's core earnings, subject to the factors identified above.

Edison International Parent expects to make further capital contributions to SCE in 2021 to increase the common equity component of SCE's capital structure, after CPUC allowed exclusions, to 52% on a weighted average basis over the Capital Structure Compliance Period. For further information, see "—SCE—SCE Dividends."

SCE expects to issue additional debt to finance payments for future resolutions of claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events that exceed insurance. To enable SCE to issue the necessary debt and to allow Edison International and SCE to maintain investment grade credit ratings, Edison International anticipates issuing securities with up to $1.0 billion of equity content to invest in SCE, during 2021.

Edison International Parent's credit facility requires a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio as defined in the applicable agreements of less than or equal to 0.70 to 1. At December 31, 2020, Edison International consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio was 0.59 to 1.

27

At December 31, 2020, Edison International Parent was in compliance with all financial covenants that affect access to capital.

Edison International Parent's long-term issuer credit ratings are at investment grade levels. However, during the third quarter of 2020, the S&P rating outlooks for all three investor-owned utilities in California were revised to negative due to unprecedented wildfire activity throughout California in August and September of 2020. Edison International Parent's ratings outlook from Moody's and Fitch has remained stable despite 2020 wildfire activity due to the reduced financial risk that wildfires pose to SCE following enactment of AB 1054. For further information, see "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

The following table summarizes Edison International Parent's current long-term issuer credit ratings and outlook from the major credit rating agencies:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Edison International Parent's credit ratings may be further affected if, among other things, regulators fail to successfully implement AB 1054 in a consistent and credit supportive manner or the Wildfire Insurance Fund is depleted by claims from catastrophic wildfires. The broad economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect Edison International's credit rating. For further information see "Management Overview—COVID-19" and "Risk Factors." Credit rating downgrades increase the cost and may impact the availability of short-term and long-term borrowings, including commercial paper, credit facilities, note financings or other borrowings.

Net Operating Loss and Tax Credit Carryforwards

Edison International has approximately $1.8 billion of tax effected net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2020 (after offsetting $270 million of unrecognized tax benefits and $218 million of Capistrano Wind net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards), which are available to offset future consolidated tax liabilities. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 8. Income Taxes" for further information regarding taxes payable to Capistrano Wind. Edison International expects to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards through 2028.

Historical Cash Flows

SCE 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities

The following table summarizes major categories of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities as provided in more detail in SCE's consolidated statements of cash flows for 2020, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Non-cash items include depreciation and amortization, allowance for equity during construction, impairment and other, Wildfire Insurance Fund amortization expense, deferred income taxes and other.

2 Changes in working capital items include receivables, inventory, amortization of prepaid expenses, accounts payable, tax receivables and payables, and other current assets and liabilities.

3 Includes changes in liabilities for wildfire-related claims and wildfire-related insurance receivables. Also includes nuclear decommissioning trusts. See "Nuclear Decommissioning Activities" below for further information.

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was impacted by the following:

Net income and non-cash items decreased in 2020 by $530 million from 2019 primarily due to recognizing a net $1.2 billion charge ($874 million after-tax) related to wildfire-related claims in September 2020, partially offset by higher CPUC-related revenue due to the escalation mechanism as set forth in the 2018 GRC decision.

Net cash used in operating activities was also impacted by cash outflow of $95 million and $2.5 billion related to SCE's contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund in 2020 and 2019, respectively. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitment and Contingencies" for further information.

Net cash (outflow) inflow for working capital was $(136) million and $298 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net cash outflow for working capital increased from 2019 to 2020 primarily due to increases in receivables from customers and accrued unbilled revenue of $(357) million in 2020 and $(73) million in 2019, respectively, partially offset by net tax refunds of $50 million and $164 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net cash for working capital in both periods was impacted by insurance premium payments of $(496) million and $(471) million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, primarily for wildfire-related coverage, partially offset by increases in payables of $255 million in 2020 and $237 million in 2019.

Net cash used in regulatory assets and liabilities, including changes in net under collections of balancing accounts, was $1,799 million and $1,278 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. SCE has a number of balancing accounts, which impact cash flows based on differences between timing of collection of amounts through rates and accrual expenditures. Cash flows were primarily impacted by the following:

2020

•Net undercollections of BRRBA were $622 million at December 31, 2020, compared to net overcollections of $328 million at December 31, 2019. Net undercollections increased by $950 million primarily due to refunds of prior overcollections (including incremental tax benefits and overcollections of distribution revenue that are being refunded over an 18-month period, starting in July 2019, as part of SCE's 2018 GRC decision), reclassification of approximately $500 million in undercollections from WEMA to be collected over a two-year period, starting October 2020, and the CPUC approval of $140 million GS&RP spending to be collected over a one-year period, starting October 2020, partially offset by current year overcollections due to higher distribution revenue primarily driven by higher residential usage.

•Undercollections of $356 million related to wildfire-related expenses that are probable of future recovery from customers, including wildfire risk mitigation costs and insurance premiums, partially offset by an approximately 

29

$500 million reclassification to BRRBA as discussed above. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for further information.

•Undercollections of $241 million related to service restoration and damage repair costs that were tracked in CEMA accounts, primarily due to wildfire events incurred in 2020 and drought restoration costs. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for further information.

•Net undercollections of FERC balancing accounts were $12 million at December 31, 2020, compared to net overcollections of $127 million at December 31, 2019. Net overcollections of FERC balancing accounts decreased by $139 million primarily due to a refund of prior year overcollections, expected recoveries from FERC customers related to 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events and higher expenses related to wildfire mitigation and vegetation management, partially offset by overcollections due to current year billing at a higher ROE than approved in the 2019 Formula Rate Settlement.

•Net undercollections for ERRA, PABA and the New System Generation Balancing Account decreased by $201 million primarily due to recovery of prior ERRA and PABA undercollections, partially offset by undercollections in 2020 due to higher than forecasted power purchase price due to warmer than expected weather in the second half of the year.

•Undercollections of $176 million related to incremental costs associated with COVID-19, primarily related to customer uncollectibles, sequestering certain SCE employees and coordination of SCE's response to the emergency. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for further information.

2019

•BRRBA overcollections decreased by $300 million primarily due to refunds of prior overcollections (including incremental tax benefits) and current year undercollection due to rate changes delayed beyond January 1, 2019, offset by additional overcollection of distribution revenue to be refunded to customers over an 18-month period, starting in July 2019, as part of SCE's 2018 GRC final decision.

•PABA was established in May 2019 to determine and pro-ratably recover from responsible bundled service and departing load customers the "above-market" costs of all generation resources that are eligible for cost recovery. Net undercollections for ERRA, PABA and the New System Generation Balancing Account decreased by $142 million primarily due to recovery of prior ERRA undercollections and overcollections of generation revenue occurring in 2019 and 2018 that are being refunded over an 18-month period, starting in July 2019, as part of SCE's 2018 GRC final decision. The cash inflow was partially offset by lower sales than forecasted in rates, higher than forecasted energy prices experienced in 2019, charges from CPUC-authorized contract terminations and refunds of prior overcollections from the New System Generation Balancing Account.

•Lower cash due to elimination of approximately $360 million in a regulatory liability that was established in 2018 to record adjustments associated with the delay in the 2018 GRC decision. In May 2019, the CPUC approved the final decision in SCE's 2018 GRC, resulting in 2019 and 2018 overcollections being refunded to customers through BRRBA and PABA, as discussed above.

•Additional undercollections of $596 million related to wildfire-related expenses that are probable of future recovery from customers, including wildfire risk mitigation costs, insurance premiums and service restoration and damage repair costs.

•Higher cash due to $115 million of overcollections related to the timing of GHG auction revenue, low carbon fuel standard credit sales, and the related refunds and rebates to eligible customers.

•Additional cash outflow due to refund of prior year overcollection of recovery of certain employee benefit related costs and reversal of the Tax Accounting Memorandum Account overcollection as a result of adoption of the 2018 GRC final decision.

Cash flows provided by other noncurrent assets and liabilities were primarily related to an increase of $1.3 billion and $232 million in liabilities for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events related claims in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Also impacted by payments of TKM Subrogation Settlement and individual settlement of $1.5 billion in 2020, and the Local Public Entity Settlements payment of $360 million in 2019, each offset by the subsequent insurance recovery of $1.0 billion and $290 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.

30

Cash flows provided by other noncurrent assets and liabilities also includes net earnings from nuclear decommissioning trust investments ($25 million and $67 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively) and SCE's payments of decommissioning costs ($223 million and $172 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively). See "Nuclear Decommissioning Activities" below for further discussion.

Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities

The following table summarizes cash provided by financing activities for 2020, 2019 and 2018. Issuances of debt and preference stock and capital contribution from Edison International Parent are discussed in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5. Debt and Credit Agreements" and "—Note 14. Equity."

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities

Cash flows used in investing activities are primarily due to capital expenditures and funding of nuclear decommissioning trusts. Capital expenditures were $5.5 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.5 billion for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, primarily related to transmission and generation investments. SCE had a net redemption of nuclear decommissioning trust investments of $197 million and $106 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. See "Nuclear Decommissioning Activities" below for further discussion.

Nuclear Decommissioning Activities

SCE's consolidated statements of cash flows include nuclear decommissioning activities, which are reflected in the following line items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash used in operating activities relates to interest and dividends less administrative expenses, taxes and SCE's decommissioning costs. Investing activities represent the purchase and sale of investments within the nuclear decommissioning trusts, including the reinvestment of earnings from nuclear decommissioning trust investments. 

Funds for decommissioning costs are requested from the nuclear decommissioning trusts one month in advance. Decommissioning disbursements are funded from sales of investments of the nuclear decommissioning trusts. The net cash impact reflects timing of decommissioning payments ($223 million and $172 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively) and reimbursements to SCE from the nuclear decommissioning trust ($222 million and $173 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively). 

31

Edison International Parent and Other 

The table below sets forth condensed historical cash flow from operations for Edison International Parent and Other, including intercompany eliminations. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Cash Used in Operating Activities 

Net cash used in operating activities decreased in 2020 by $52 million from 2019 due to:

•Outflows of $164 million and $137 million from operating activities in 2020 and 2019, respectively, due to payments and receipts relating to interest and operating costs. 

•An outflow of $79 million in 2019 primarily related to $164 million of intercompany tax-allocation payments offset by $85 million of federal and state income tax refunds. 

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities

Net cash provided by investing activities included a cash inflow of $132 million from the sale of a lease investment in Vidalia, Louisiana in 2020. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 13. Leases" for further information.

32

Contractual Obligations and Contingencies

Contractual Obligations

As of December 31, 2020, Edison International Parent and Other and SCE's contractual obligations for the years 2021 through 2025 and thereafter are estimated below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 For additional details, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5. Debt and Credit Agreements." Amount includes interest payments totaling $12.5 billion and $600 million over applicable period of the debt for SCE and Edison International Parent and Other, respectively.

2 Certain power purchase agreements entered into with independent power producers are treated as operating or finance leases. For further discussion, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies" and "—Note 13. Leases."

3 At December 31, 2020, SCE's other operating lease payments were primarily related to vehicles, office space and other equipment. For further discussion, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 13. Leases."

4 For additional details, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies." At December 31, 2020, other commitments were primarily related to maintaining reliability and expanding SCE's transmission and distribution system and nuclear fuel supply contracts.

5 At December 31, 2020, Edison International Parent and Other and SCE had estimated contributions to the pension and PBOP plans. SCE estimated contributions are $40 million, $29 million, $17 million, $9 million and $8 million in 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025, respectively, which are excluded from the table above. Edison International Parent and Other estimated contributions are $24 million, $24 million, $22 million, $20 million and $21 million for the same respective periods and are excluded from the table above. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Compensation and Benefit Plans" for further information.

6 At December 31, 2020, Edison International and SCE had a total net liability recorded for uncertain tax positions of $679 million and $320 million, respectively, which is excluded from the table. Edison International and SCE cannot make reliable estimates of the cash flows by period due to uncertainty surrounding the timing of resolving these open tax issues with the tax authorities.

7 The contractual obligations table does not include derivative obligations and asset retirement obligations, which are discussed in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 6. Derivative Instruments" and "—Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," respectively.

33

Contingencies

SCE has contingencies related to wildfire and debris flow events, wildfire insurance, nuclear insurance, spent nuclear fuel and the Upstream Lighting Program, which are discussed in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies."

Environmental Remediation

For a discussion of SCE's environmental remediation liabilities, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Environmental Remediation."

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

SCE has variable interests in power purchase contracts with variable interest entities and a variable interest in unconsolidated Trust II, Trust III, Trust IV, Trust V and Trust VI that issued $400 million (aggregate liquidation preference) of 5.10%, $275 million (aggregate liquidation preference) of 5.75%, $325 million (aggregate liquidation preference) of 5.375%, $300 million (aggregate liquidation preference) of 5.45% and $475 million (aggregate liquidation preference) of 5.00%, trust securities, respectively, to the public. In the third quarter 2020, SCE Trust II redeemed $180 million of its trust securities from the public, from its issued trust securities of $400 million. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3. Variable Interest Entities."

Environmental Developments

For a discussion of environmental developments, see "Business—Environmental Considerations."

MARKET RISK EXPOSURES

Edison International's and SCE's primary market risks include fluctuations in interest rates, commodity prices and volumes, and counterparty credit. Derivative instruments are used to manage market risks including market risks of SCE's customers. For further discussion of market risk exposures, including commodity price risk, credit risk and interest rate risk, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 6. Derivative Instruments" and "—Note 4. Fair Value Measurements."

Interest Rate Risk

Edison International and SCE are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its financing, investing and borrowing activities used for liquidity purposes, and to fund business operations and capital investments. The nature and amount of Edison International's and SCE's long-term and short-term debt can be expected to vary as a result of future business requirements, market conditions and other factors. Fluctuations in interest rates can affect earnings and cash flows. Changes in interest rates may impact SCE's authorized rate of return for the period beyond 2021 through a CPUC cost of capital adjustment mechanism, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE" in the MD&A and "Business—SCE—Overview of Ratemaking Process" for further discussion. The following table summarizes the increase or decrease to the fair value of long-term debt including the current portion, if the market interest rates were changed while leaving all other assumptions the same:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Commodity Price Risk

SCE and its customers are exposed to the risk of a change in the market price of natural gas, electric power and transmission congestion. SCE's hedging program is designed to reduce exposure to variability in market prices related to SCE's purchases and sales of electric power and natural gas. SCE expects recovery of its related hedging costs through the ERRA balancing account or CPUC-approved procurement plans, and as a result, exposure to commodity price is not expected to impact earnings but may impact timing of cash flows. As part of this program, SCE enters into energy options, swaps, forward 

34

arrangements and congestion revenue rights ("CRRs"). The transactions are pre-approved by the CPUC or executed in compliance with CPUC-approved procurement plans.

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The fair value of derivative instruments is included in the consolidated balance sheets unless subject to an exception under the applicable accounting guidance. Realized gains and losses from derivative instruments are expected to be recovered from or refunded to customers through regulatory mechanisms and, accordingly, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments have no impact on earnings. SCE does not use hedge accounting for these transactions due to this regulatory accounting treatment. For further discussion on fair value measurements and the fair value hierarchy, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4. Fair Value Measurements."

The fair value of outstanding derivative instruments used to mitigate exposure to commodity price risk was a net asset of $108 million and $86 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

The following table summarizes the increase or decrease to the fair values of the net asset of derivative instruments included in the consolidated balance sheets, if the electricity prices or gas prices were changed while leaving all other assumptions constant:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Risk

Credit risk exposure from counterparties for power and gas trading activities is measured as the sum of net accounts receivable (accounts receivable less accounts payable) and the current fair value of net derivative assets (derivative assets less derivative liabilities) reflected on the consolidated balance sheets. SCE enters into master agreements which typically provide for a right of set-off. Accordingly, SCE's credit risk exposure from counterparties is based on a net exposure under these arrangements. SCE manages the credit risk on the portfolio of counterparties based on credit ratings and other publicly disclosed information, such as financial statements, regulatory filings and press releases, to guide it in the process of setting credit levels, risk limits and contractual arrangements, including master netting agreements. Based on SCE's policies and risk exposures related to credit, SCE does not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial statements as a result of counterparty nonperformance. At December 31, 2020, SCE's power and gas trading counterparty credit risk exposure was $109 million, 99% of which is associated with entities that have an investment grade rating of A or higher. SCE assigns a credit rating to counterparties based on the lower of a counterparty's S&P or Moody's rating.

For more information related to credit risks, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 6. Derivative Instruments."

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES

The accounting policies described below are considered critical to obtaining an understanding of Edison International's and SCE's consolidated financial statements because their application requires the use of significant estimates and judgments by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Management estimates and judgments are inherently uncertain and may differ significantly from actual results achieved. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if the estimate requires significant assumptions and changes in the estimate or, the use of alternative estimates, could have a material impact on Edison International's results of operations or financial position. For more information on Edison International's accounting policies, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."

Rate Regulated Enterprises

Nature of Estimate Required. SCE follows the accounting principles for rate-regulated enterprises which are required for entities whose rates are set by regulators at levels intended to recover the estimated costs of providing service, plus a return on net investment, or rate base. Regulators may also impose penalties or grant incentives. Due to timing and other differences in the collection of revenue, these principles allow a cost that would otherwise be charged as an expense by an unregulated 

35

entity to be capitalized as a regulatory asset if it is probable that such cost is recoverable through future rates; conversely the principles allow creation of a regulatory liability for amounts collected in rates to recover costs expected to be incurred in the future or amounts collected in excess of costs incurred and refundable to customers. In addition, SCE recognizes revenue and regulatory assets from alternative revenue programs, which enables the utility to adjust future rates in response to past activities or completed events, if certain criteria are met, even for programs that do not qualify for recognition of "traditional" regulatory assets and liabilities.

Accounting principles for rate-regulated enterprises also require recognition of an impairment loss if it becomes probable that the regulated utility will abandon a plant investment, or if it becomes probable that the cost of a recently completed plant will be disallowed, either directly or indirectly, for ratemaking purposes and a reasonable estimate of the amount of the disallowance can be made.

Key Assumptions and Approach Used. SCE's management assesses at the end of each reporting period whether regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as the current regulatory environment, the issuance of rate orders on recovery of the specific or a similar incurred cost to SCE or other rate-regulated entities, and other factors that would indicate that the regulator will treat an incurred cost as allowable for ratemaking purposes. Using these factors, management has determined that existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of future recovery or settlement. This determination reflects the current regulatory climate and is subject to change in the future. SCE also considers whether any plant investments are probable of abandonment or disallowance.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used. Significant management judgment is required to evaluate the anticipated recovery of regulatory assets and plant investments, the recognition of incentives and revenue subject to refund, as well as the anticipated cost of regulatory liabilities or penalties. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, all or part of the regulatory assets, plant investments and/or liabilities would have to be written off against current period earnings. At December 31, 2020, the consolidated balance sheets included regulatory assets of $8.4 billion and regulatory liabilities of $9.2 billion. If different judgments were reached on recovery of costs and timing of income recognition, SCE's earnings may vary from the amounts reported.

Accounting for Contingencies

Nature of Estimates Required. Edison International and SCE record loss contingencies when management determines that the outcome of future events is probable of occurring and when the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies are recognized in the financial statements when they are realized.

Key Assumptions and Approach Used. The determination of an accrual for a loss contingency is based on management judgment and estimates with respect to the likely outcome of the matter, including the analysis of different scenarios. Liabilities are recorded or adjusted when events or circumstances cause these judgments or estimates to change. In assessing whether a loss is a reasonable possibility, Edison International and SCE may consider the following factors, among others: the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment, available information, opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisors, and the experience gained from similar cases. Edison International and SCE provide disclosures for material contingencies when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or an additional loss may be incurred.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used. Actual amounts realized upon settlement of contingencies may be different than amounts recorded and disclosed and could have a significant impact on the liabilities, revenue and expenses recorded on the consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of contingencies, guarantees and indemnities, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies."

Application to Southern California Wildfires

As discussed in "Management Overview," wildfires in SCE's territory, including those where SCE's equipment may be alleged to be associated with the fire's ignition, have caused loss of life and substantial damage in recent years. Wildfires in SCE's territory in December 2017 and November 2018 caused loss of life, substantial damage to both residential and business properties, and service outages for SCE customers.

Any potential liability of SCE for damages related to wildfires depends on a number of factors, including whether SCE is determined to have substantially caused, or contributed to, the damages and whether parties seeking recovery of damages will be required to show negligence in addition to causation. Final determinations of liability for wildfire events, including determinations of whether SCE was negligent, would only be made during lengthy and complex litigation processes.

Management judgment was required to assess whether a loss contingency was probable and reasonably estimable for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. Based on SCE's internal review into the facts and circumstances of each of the 

36

2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events and consideration of the risks associated with litigation, Edison International and SCE have incurred material losses in connection with the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. Edison International and SCE accrued charges, before recoveries and taxes, of $1.3 billion, $232 million and $4.7 billion for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events in the years ended 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Edison International and SCE recorded expected recoveries from insurance of $2.0 billion for 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events during 2018. Edison International and SCE also recorded expected recoveries through FERC electric rates of $84 million, $14 million and $135 million in the years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The net charges to earnings recorded were $874 million, $157 million and $1.8 billion after-tax in 2020, 2019 and 2018 respectively.

The estimated losses for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events do not include an estimate of any potential fines or penalties that could be levied against SCE in connection with the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events. Edison International and SCE are currently unable to reasonably estimate the magnitude of any such fines or penalties, or the associated timing if they were to be imposed. Estimated losses for the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events litigation are based on a number of assumptions and are subject to change as additional information becomes available. Actual losses incurred may be higher or lower than estimated based on several factors, including: the uncertainty as to the legal and factual determinations to be made during litigation, including uncertainty as to the contributing causes of the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, the complexities associated with fires that merge, whether inverse condemnation will be held applicable to SCE with respect to damages caused by the Montecito Mudslides, the preliminary nature of the litigation processes, the uncertainty in estimating damages that may be alleged, and the uncertainty as to how these factors impact future settlements.

At December 31, 2019, Edison International and SCE were unable to determine a best estimate of expected losses within a reasonably estimated range and therefore the charges recorded by Edison International and SCE in 2018 and 2019 represented the lower end of the reasonably estimated range of expected losses. In light of the TKM Subrogation Settlement and increased settlement activity with individual plaintiffs in the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events litigation, among other things, management established a best estimate of expected potential losses for alleged and potential claims related to the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events litigation in the third quarter of 2020.

Recovery of SCE's actual losses realized in connection with the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events in excess of available insurance is subject to approval by regulators. Under accounting standards for rate-regulated enterprises, SCE defers costs as regulatory assets when it concludes that such costs are probable of future recovery in electric rates. SCE utilizes objectively determinable evidence to form its view on probability of future recovery. The only directly comparable precedent in which a California investor-owned utility has sought recovery for uninsured wildfire-related costs is SDG&E's requests for cost recovery related to 2007 wildfire activity, where FERC allowed recovery of all FERC-jurisdictional wildfire-related costs while the CPUC rejected recovery of all CPUC-jurisdictional wildfire-related costs based on a determination that SDG&E did not meet the CPUC's prudency standard. As a result, while SCE does not agree with the CPUC's decision, it believes that the CPUC's interpretation and application of the prudency standard to SDG&E creates substantial uncertainty regarding how that standard will be applied to an investor-owned utility in future wildfire cost-recovery proceedings for fires ignited prior to July 12, 2019. SCE will continue to evaluate the probability of recovery based on available evidence, including judicial, legislative and regulatory decisions, including any CPUC decisions illustrating the interpretation and/or application of the prudency standard when making determinations regarding recovery of uninsured wildfire-related costs. While the CPUC has not made a determination regarding SCE's prudency relative to any of the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, SCE is unable to conclude, at this time, that uninsured CPUC-jurisdictional wildfire-related costs are probable of recovery through electric rates. SCE would record a regulatory asset at the time it obtains sufficient information to support a conclusion that recovery is probable. Through the operation of its FERC Formula Rate and based upon the precedent established in SDG&E's recovery of FERC-jurisdictional wildfire-related costs, SCE believes it is probable it will recover its FERC-jurisdictional wildfire and debris flow-related costs and has recorded expected recoveries within the FERC balancing account.

Over the course of the various investigations and litigation processes associated with each of the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, new facts may emerge as to the cause, extent and magnitude of potential damages. The amount of the expected loss and recorded receivables are subject to change based on new or additional information.

Income Taxes

Nature of Estimates Required. As part of the process of preparing its consolidated financial statements, Edison International and SCE are required to estimate income taxes for each jurisdiction in which they operate. This process involves estimating actual current period tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within Edison International and SCE's consolidated balance sheets, including net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Certain estimates and assumptions are required to determine whether deferred tax assets can and will be utilized in future periods.

37

Edison International and SCE take certain tax positions they believe are in accordance with the applicable tax laws. However, these tax positions are subject to interpretation by the Internal Revenue Service, state tax authorities and the courts. Edison International and SCE determine uncertain tax positions in accordance with the authoritative guidance.

Key Assumptions and Approach Used. In determining whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards can be utilized, management analyzes the trend of U.S. GAAP earnings and then estimates the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and available prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.

Accounting for tax obligations requires management judgment. Edison International's and SCE's management use judgment in determining whether the evidence indicates it is more likely than not, based solely on the technical merits, that a tax position will be sustained, and to determine the amount of tax benefits to be recognized. Judgment is also used in determining the likelihood a tax position will be settled and possible settlement outcomes. In assessing uncertain tax positions Edison International and SCE consider, among others, the following factors: the facts and circumstances of the position, regulations, rulings, and case law, opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, and the experience gained from similar tax positions. Edison International and SCE evaluate uncertain tax positions at the end of each reporting period and make adjustments when warranted based on changes in fact or law.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used. Should a change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the ultimate realizability of a deferred tax asset, Edison International and SCE would record or adjust the related valuation allowance in the period that the change in facts and circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease in the provision for income taxes.

Actual income taxes may differ from the estimated amounts which could have a significant impact on the liabilities, revenue and expenses recorded in the financial statements. Edison International and SCE continue to be under audit or subject to audit for multiple years in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine the tax treatment of particular tax positions that involve interpretations of complex tax laws. Such liabilities are based on judgment and a final determination could take many years from the time the liability is recorded. Furthermore, settlement of tax positions included in open tax years may be resolved by compromises of tax positions based on current factors and business considerations that may result in material adjustments to income taxes previously estimated. For a discussion of current and deferred taxes, net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, unrecognized tax benefits, and tax disputes, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 8. Income Taxes."

Nuclear Decommissioning – Asset Retirement Obligation

Key Assumptions and Approach Used. San Onofre Units 1, 2 and 3 decommissioning cost estimates are updated in each Nuclear Decommissioning Cost Triennial Proceeding ("NDCTP") and when there are material changes to the timing or amount of estimated future cash flows. Palo Verde decommissioning cost estimates are updated by the operating agent, Arizona Public Services, every three years and when there are material changes to the timing or amount of estimated future cash flows. SCE estimates that it will spend approximately $6.6 billion undiscounted through 2079 to decommission its nuclear facilities.

The current ARO estimates for San Onofre and Palo Verde are based on:

•Decommissioning Costs. The estimated costs for labor, "material, equipment and other," and low-level radioactive waste costs are included in each of the NRC decommissioning stages; license termination, site restoration and spent fuel storage. The liability to decommission SCE's nuclear power facilities is based on a 2017 decommissioning study that was filed as part of the 2018 NDCTP for San Onofre Units 1, 2, and 3, with revisions to the cost estimate in 2018, and a 2019 decommissioning study for Palo Verde, with revisions to the cost estimate in 2020.

•Escalation Rates. Annual escalation rates are used to convert the decommissioning cost estimates in base year dollars to decommissioning cost estimates in future-year dollars. Escalation rates are primarily used for labor, material, equipment and low-level radioactive waste burial costs. SCE's current estimates are based upon SCE's decommissioning cost methodology used for ratemaking purposes. Average escalation rates range from 0.6% to 7.5% (depending on the cost element) annually.

•Timing. Cost estimates for Palo Verde are based on an assumption that decommissioning will commence promptly after the current NRC operating licenses expire. The Palo Verde 1, 2, 3 operating licenses currently expire in 2045, 2046 and 2047, respectively. Initial decommissioning activities at San Onofre Unit 1 started in 1999 and at Units 2 and 3 in 2013. Cost estimates for San Onofre Units are currently based on completion of decommissioning activities by 2051.

38

•Spent Fuel Dry Storage Costs. Cost estimates are based on an assumption that the U.S. Department of Energy will begin to take spent fuel from the nuclear industry in 2028 and will remove the last spent fuel from the San Onofre and Palo Verde sites by 2049 and 2078, respectively.

•Changes in Decommissioning Technology, Regulation and Economics. The current cost studies assume the use of current technologies under current regulations and at current cost levels.

See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Decommissioning of San Onofre" for further discussion of the plans for decommissioning of San Onofre.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used. The ARO for decommissioning SCE's nuclear facilities was $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2020, based on the decommissioning studies performed and the subsequent cost estimate updates. Changes in the estimated costs, execution strategy or timing of decommissioning, or in the assumptions and judgments by management underlying these estimates, could cause material revisions to the estimated total cost to decommission these facilities which could have a material effect on the recorded liability.

The following table illustrates the increase to the ARO liability if the cost escalation rate was adjusted while leaving all other assumptions constant:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in the ARO liability driven by an increase in the escalation rate would result in a decrease in the regulatory liability for recoveries in excess of ARO liabilities.

Pensions and Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions

Nature of Estimate Required. Authoritative accounting guidance requires companies to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as assets and liabilities in the balance sheet; the assets and/or liabilities are normally offset through other comprehensive income (loss). In accordance with authoritative guidance for rate-regulated enterprises, regulatory assets and liabilities are recorded instead of charges and credits to other comprehensive income (loss) for its postretirement benefit plans that are recoverable in utility rates. Edison International and SCE have a fiscal year-end measurement date for all of their postretirement plans.

Key Assumptions of Approach Used. Pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and the related effects on results of operations are calculated using actuarial models. Two critical assumptions, discount rate and expected return on assets, are important elements of plan expense, and the discount rate is important to liability measurement. Additionally, health care cost trend rates are critical assumptions for postretirement health care plans. These critical assumptions are evaluated at least annually. Other assumptions, which require management judgment, such as rate of compensation increases and rates of retirement and turnover, are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect actual experience.

As of December 31, 2020, Edison International's and SCE's pension plans had a $4.5 billion and $4.0 billion benefit obligation, respectively, and total 2020 expense for these plans was $58 million and $54 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, the benefit obligation for both Edison International's and SCE's PBOP plans were $2.1 billion, and total 2020 expense for Edison International's plans were $1 million, and no expense for SCE's plan. Annual contributions made to most of SCE's pension plans are currently recovered through CPUC-approved regulatory mechanisms and are expected to be, at a minimum, equal to the related annual expense.

Pension expense is recorded for SCE based on the amount funded to the trusts, as calculated using an actuarial method required for ratemaking purposes, in which the impact of market volatility on plan assets is recognized in earnings on a more gradual basis. Any difference between pension expense calculated in accordance with ratemaking methods and pension expense calculated in accordance with authoritative accounting guidance for pension is accumulated as a regulatory asset or liability, and is expected, over time, to be recovered from or returned to customers. As of December 31, 2020, this cumulative difference amounted to a regulatory asset of $95 million, meaning that the ratemaking method has recognized less in expense than the accounting method since implementation of authoritative guidance for employers' accounting for pensions in 1987.

39

Edison International and SCE used the following critical assumptions to determine expense for pension and other postretirement benefit for 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Not applicable to pension plans.

1 The discount rate enables Edison International and SCE to state expected future cash flows at a present value on the measurement date. Edison International and SCE select its discount rate by performing a yield curve analysis. This analysis determines the equivalent discount rate on projected cash flows by matching the timing and amount of expected future benefit payments to the corresponding yields from the Aon- Hewitt AA Only Bond Universe yield curve on the measurement date. 

2 To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, current and expected asset allocations are considered, as well as historical and expected returns on plan assets. A portion of PBOP trusts asset returns are subject to taxation, so the 4.9% rate of return on plan assets above is determined on an after-tax basis. Actual time-weighted, annualized returns on the pension plan assets were 16.3%, 11.0% and 9.7% for the one-year, five-year and ten-year periods ended December 31, 2020, respectively. Actual time-weighted, annualized returns on the PBOP plan assets were 13.0%, 9.4% and 8.8% over these same periods. Accounting principles provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees.

3 The health care cost trend rate gradually declines to 5.0% for 2029 and beyond.

As of December 31, 2020, Edison International and SCE had unrecognized pension costs of $107 million and $28 million, respectively, and unrecognized PBOP gains of $670 million and $671 million, respectively. The unrecognized pension costs and PBOP gains primarily consisted of the cumulative impact of the reduced discount rates on the respective benefit obligations and the cumulative difference between the expected and actual rate of return on plan assets. Of these deferred costs or gains, $12 million of SCE's pension costs and $671 million of SCE's PBOP gains are recorded as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities, respectively, and are expected to be recovered or refunded over the average expected future service of employees.

Edison International's and SCE's pension and PBOP plans are subject to limits established for federal tax deductibility. SCE funds its pension and PBOP plans in accordance with amounts allowed by the CPUC. Executive pension plans have no plan assets.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used. Changes in the estimated costs or timing of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, or the assumptions and judgments used by management underlying these estimates, could have a material effect on the recorded expenses and liabilities.

The following table summarizes the increase or decrease to projected benefit obligation for pension and the accumulated benefit obligation for PBOP if the discount rate were changed while leaving all other assumptions constant:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A one percentage point increase in the expected rate of return on pension plan assets would decrease Edison International's and SCE's current year expense by $36 million and $34 million, respectively, and a one percentage point increase in the expected rate of return on PBOP plan assets would decrease both Edison International's and SCE's current year expense by $24 million.

40

Contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund

Nature of Estimates Required. At December 31, 2020, Edison International and SCE have a $2.4 billion long-term asset and a $323 million current asset reflected as "Wildfire Insurance Fund contributions" in the consolidated balance sheets for the initial $2.4 billion contribution made during the third quarter of 2019 and the present value of annual contributions SCE committed to make to the Wildfire Insurance Fund, reduced by amortization. At December 31, 2020, a long-term liability of $703 million has been reflected in "Other deferred credits and other long-term liabilities" for the present value of unpaid contribution amounts. Contributions were discounted to the present value at the date SCE committed to participate in the Wildfire Insurance Fund using US treasury interest rates.

Management concluded it would be most appropriate to account for the contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund similar to prepaid insurance, ratably allocating the expense to periods based on an estimated period of coverage.

Key Assumptions and Approach Used. The Wildfire Insurance Fund does not have a defined life. Instead, the Wildfire Insurance Fund will terminate when the administrator determines that the fund has been exhausted. Management estimated that the Wildfire Insurance Fund will provide insurance coverage for a period of 10 years. The determination of the correct period in which to record an expense in relation to contributions to the Wildfire Insurance Fund depends, among other factors, on management's assessment of: the future occurrence and magnitude of wildfires; the involvement of SCE, or other electrical corporations, in the ignition of those fires; the probable future outcomes of CPUC cost recovery proceedings for wildfire claims, which may require reimbursement of the fund by electrical corporations and the use of the contributions by the administrator of the Wildfire Insurance Fund. Further information regarding these factors may become available due to the actions of the fund administrator, or other entities, which could require management to reassess the period of coverage. In estimating the period of coverage, Edison International and SCE used Monte Carlo simulations based on five years (2014 – 2018) of historical data from wildfires caused by electrical utility equipment to estimate expected loss. The details of the operation of the Wildfire Insurance Fund and estimates related to claims by SCE, PG&E and SDG&E against the fund have been applied to the expected loss simulations to estimate the period of coverage of the fund. The most sensitive inputs to the estimated period of coverage are the expected frequency of wildfire events caused by investor-owned utility electrical equipment and the estimated costs associated with those forecasted events. These inputs are most affected by the historical data used in estimating expected losses. Using a 12-year period of historical data, with average annual statewide gross claims of $5.0 billion, compared to $11.7 billion for the five year historical data, would increase the period of coverage to 20 years.

Based on information available in the first quarter of 2021 regarding catastrophic wildfires during 2019 and 2020, SCE reassessed its estimate of the life of the Wildfire Insurance Fund. Using 7 years of historical data (2014 – 2020) of wildfires caused by electrical utility equipment to create Monte Carlo simulations of expected loss, resulted in the expected life of the Wildfire Insurance Fund increasing from 10 years to 15 years from the date SCE committed to participate in the Wildfire Insurance Fund.

Effect if Different Assumptions Used. Changes in the estimated life of the insurance fund could have a material impact on the expense recognition.

NEW ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE

New accounting guidance is discussed in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—New Accounting Guidance."

41

RISK FACTORS

RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL

Edison International's liquidity and ability to pay dividends depends on its ability to borrow funds, access to bank and capital markets, monetization of tax benefits held by Edison International, and SCE's ability to pay dividends and tax allocation payments to Edison International.

Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations, make investments, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of SCE and SCE's ability to make upstream distributions. If SCE does not make upstream distributions to Edison International and Edison International is unable to access the bank and capital markets on reasonable terms, Edison International may be unable to continue to pay dividends to its shareholders or meet its financial obligations.

Prior to paying dividends to Edison International, SCE has financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preference stock dividends. Further, SCE and Edison International cannot pay dividends if California law requirements for the declaration of dividends are not met. For information on CPUC and California law requirements related to the declaration of dividends, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—SCE Dividends" in the MD&A. SCE may also owe tax-allocation payments to Edison International under applicable tax-allocation agreements.

Edison International's ability to obtain financing, as well as its ability to refinance debt and make scheduled payments of principal and interest, are dependent on numerous factors, including its levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. In addition, the factors affecting SCE's business will impact Edison International's ability to obtain financing. Edison International's inability to borrow funds from time to time could have a material effect on Edison International's liquidity and operations.

See "Risks Relating to Southern California Edison Company" below for further discussion.

Edison International's business activities are concentrated in one industry and in one region.

Edison International business activities are concentrated in the electric utility industry. Its principal subsidiary, SCE, serves customers only in southern and central California. As a result, Edison International's future performance may be affected by events and economic factors unique to California or by regional regulation, legislation or judicial decisions. For example, California courts have applied strict liability to investor-owned utilities in wildfire and other litigation matters. See "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides" in the MD&A.

RISKS RELATING TO SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY

Regulatory and Legislative Risks

SCE's financial results depend upon its ability to recover its costs and to earn a reasonable rate of return on capital investments in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.

SCE's ongoing financial results depend on its ability to recover its costs from its customers, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC and FERC. SCE's financial results also depend on its ability to earn a reasonable return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. SCE's ability to recover its costs and earn a reasonable rate of return can be affected by many factors, including the time lag between when costs are incurred and when those costs are recovered in customers' rates and differences between the forecast or authorized costs embedded in rates (which are set on a prospective basis) and the amount of actual costs incurred. The CPUC or the FERC may not allow SCE to recover costs on the basis that such costs were not reasonably or prudently incurred or for other reasons. Further, SCE may be required to incur expenses before the relevant regulatory agency approves the recovery of such costs. For example, SCE has, and continues to, incur costs to strengthen its wildfire mitigation and prevention efforts before it is clear whether such costs will be recoverable from customers. Also, the CPUC may deny recovery of uninsured wildfire-related costs incurred by SCE if the CPUC determines that SCE was not prudent. In addition, while SCE supports California's environmental goals, it may be prevented from fully executing on its strategy to support such goals by regulatory delay or lack of approval of cost-recovery for the costs of such strategic actions from the relevant regulatory agencies.

SCE's authorized return on investment is established by multiplying an authorized rate of return, determined by the CPUC in standalone cost of capital proceedings, by SCE's authorized CPUC rate base. SCE’s current CPUC-authorized cost of capital, which currently consists of cost of long-term debt of 4.74%, cost of preferred equity of 5.70% and a ROE of 10.3%, is subject to potential adjustment should interest rates move substantially in years between cost of capital proceedings. For further 

42

information on the cost of capital mechanism see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE" in the MD&A and "Business—SCE—Overview of Ratemaking Process."

SCE's capital investment plan, increasing procurement of renewable power and energy storage, increasing environmental regulations, currently leveling demand, and the cumulative impact of other public policy requirements, collectively place continuing upward pressure on customer rates. If SCE is unable to obtain a sufficient rate increase or modify its rate design to recover its costs (including an adequate return on capital) in rates in a timely manner, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. For further information on SCE's rate requests, see "Management Overview—2021 GRC," "Management Overview—Wildfire Mitigation, Wildfire Insurance and Restoration Expenses" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Regulatory Proceedings" in the MD&A.

SCE is subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory and legislative decisions, delays in regulatory or legislative decisions, and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.

SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. Among other things, the CPUC regulates SCE's retail rates and capital structure, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale rates. The NRC regulates the decommissioning of San Onofre in addition to the local and state agencies that require permits. The construction, planning, and siting of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to regulation by the CPUC and other local, state and federal agencies.

SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities, including environmental regulatory authorities, and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose fines, penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE may be prevented from executing its strategy and its business could be materially affected. The process of obtaining licenses and permits from regulatory authorities may be delayed or defeated by opponents and such delay or defeat could have a material effect on SCE's business.

To the extent the Wildfire Insurance Fund and other provisions of AB 1054 do not effectively mitigate the significant risk faced by California investor-owned utilities related to liability for damages arising from catastrophic wildfires where utility facilities are a substantial cause, not achieving a more comprehensive solution could have a detrimental effect on SCE's business and financial condition. The effectiveness of AB 1054 to mitigate the wildfire-related risk faced by SCE is conditioned in part on the performance of various entities formed under AB 1054 and related legislation to, among other things, administer the Wildfire Insurance Fund, approve WMPs, issue safety certifications, oversee and enforce compliance with wildfire safety standards, and develop metrics to reduce risk and measure compliance with risk reduction. In addition, CPUC approval is required to recover the costs SCE is incurring to strengthen its wildfire mitigation and prevention efforts described in SCE's WMPs. See "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides" and "Management Overview—Wildfire Mitigation, Wildfire Insurance Expenses and Restoration Expenses" in the MD&A.

In addition, existing regulations may be revised or re-interpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE, or its facilities or operations, in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs. In addition, regulations adopted via the public initiative or legislative process may apply to SCE, or its facilities or operations, in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs.

SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could materially affect its financial condition and liquidity.

SCE obtains energy, capacity, environmental credits and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants and through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover, through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility primarily resulting from changes in commodity prices, including as a result of gas supply constraints. Additionally, significant and prolonged gas use restrictions may adversely impact the reliability of the electric grid if critical generation resources are limited in their operations. For further information, see "Business—SCE—Purchased Power and Fuel Supply." SCE is also subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs.

SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on economic terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations, see "Market Risk Exposures" in the MD&A.

43

Operating Risks

Damage claims against SCE for wildfire-related losses may materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations.

Prolonged drought conditions and shifting weather patterns in California resulting from climate change as well as, among other things, buildup of dry vegetation in areas severely impacted by years of historic drought and lack of adequate clearing of hazardous fuels by responsible parties have increased the duration of the wildfire season and the risk of severe wildfire events.

Severe wildfires and increased urban development in high fire risk areas in California have given rise to large damage claims against California utilities for fire-related losses alleged to be the result of utility practices and/or the failure of electric and other utility equipment. Catastrophic wildfires can occur in SCE's service territory even if SCE effectively implements its WMPs. California courts have previously found utilities to be strictly liable for property damage, regardless of fault, by applying the theory of inverse condemnation when a utility's facilities were determined to be a substantial cause of a wildfire that caused the property damage. The rationale generally stated by these courts for applying this theory to investor-owned utilities is that property losses resulting from a public improvement, such as the distribution of electricity, can be spread across the larger community that benefited from such improvement. However, in November 2017, the CPUC issued a decision denying an investor-owned utility's request to include in its rates uninsured wildfire-related costs arising from several 2007 fires, finding that the investor-owned utility did not prudently manage and operate its facilities prior to or at the outset of the 2007 wildfires. An inability to recover uninsured wildfire-related costs could materially affect SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if SCE is found liable for damages related to catastrophic wildfires, including the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events, and is unable to, or believes that it will be unable to, recover those damages through insurance, the Wildfire Insurance Fund (which is only available for fires ignited after July 12, 2019) or electric rates, or access the bank and capital markets on reasonable terms, SCE may not have sufficient cash or equity to pay dividends or may be restricted from declaring such dividends because it does not meet CPUC or California law requirements related to the declaration of dividends. For information on the California law requirements on the declaration of dividends, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—SCE Dividends" in the MD&A. See "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides" in the MD&A.

Edison International's and SCE's costs of accessing capital markets has increased due to the risks associated with wildfires in Southern California. Edison International's and SCE's access to the bank and capital markets could also be constrained and/or the costs of accessing those markets could increase further as a result of wildfire risk, including if Edison International's and/or SCE's credit ratings are downgraded, further downgraded or placed on negative watch due to concerns about Edison International and/or SCE's financial health as a result of wildfires.

SCE's insurance coverage for wildfires arising from its ordinary operations may not be sufficient.

Edison International has experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise in connection with SCE's ordinary operations. Edison International, SCE and its contractors may experience coverage reductions and/or increased wildfire insurance costs in future years. No assurance can be given that losses will not exceed the limits of SCE's or its contractors' insurance coverage. SCE may not be able to recover uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance in electric rates. Losses which are not fully insured or cannot be recovered through the Wildfire Insurance Fund or electric rates could materially affect Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations. For more information on wildfire insurance risk, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

SCE may not effectively implement its wildfire mitigation plans.

SCE will face a higher likelihood of catastrophic wildfires in its service territory if it cannot effectively implement its WMPs. For example, SCE may not be able to effectively implement its WMPs if it experiences unanticipated difficulties relative to sourcing, engaging, training and retaining contract workers it needs to fulfill its mitigation obligations under the WMPs. In addition, if SCE does not have an approved WMP, SCE will not be issued a safety certification from the CPUC and will consequently not benefit from the presumption of prudency or the AB 1054 Liability Cap.

The CPUC may assess penalties on SCE if it finds that SCE has failed to substantially comply with its WMP. In addition, On a risk-informed basis, SCE is making efforts to reduce the frequency and impacts of PSPS in 2021 as compared to 2020, assuming that weather patterns in 2021 are similar to those experienced in 2020. SCE may be subject to mandated changes to, or restrictions on, its operational PSPS practices, regulatory fines and penalties, claims for damages and reputational harm if 

44

SCE does not execute PSPS in compliance with applicable rules and regulations or if it is determined that SCE has placed excessive reliance on PSPS.

SCE establishes the criteria under which it implements PSPS in its territory. To the extent SCE's criteria for implementing PSPS are not sufficient to mitigate the risk of wildfires during high wind events, SCE does not fully implement PSPS when criteria are met due to other overriding conditions or SCE's regulators or others mandate changes to, or restrictions on, its criteria or other operational PSPS practices, SCE will face a higher likelihood of catastrophic wildfires in its territory during high wind events.

For more information on AB 1054, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides—Recovery of Wildfire-Related Costs—2019 Wildfire Legislation."

SCE will not benefit from all of the features of AB 1054 if the Wildfire Insurance Fund is exhausted.

Catastrophic wildfires could rapidly exhaust the Wildfire Insurance Fund and SCE will not be reimbursed by the Wildfire Insurance Fund or benefit from the AB 1054 Liability Cap if the fund has been exhausted as a result of damage claims previously incurred by SCE or the other participating utilities. 

For more information on AB 1054, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides—Recovery of Wildfire-Related Costs—2019 Wildfire Legislation."

There are inherent risks associated with owning and decommissioning nuclear power generating facilities and obtaining cost reimbursement, including, among other things, insufficiency of nuclear decommissioning trust funds, costs exceeding current estimates, execution risks, potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and the hazards of storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident. 

SCE funds decommissioning costs with assets that are currently held in nuclear decommissioning trusts. Based on current decommissioning cost estimates, SCE believes that further contributions to the nuclear decommissioning trusts' assets may be required to pay the costs of decommissioning. If additional contributions to the nuclear decommissioning trust funds become necessary, recovery of any such additional funds through electric rates is subject to the CPUC's review and approval.

The costs of decommissioning San Onofre are subject to reasonableness reviews by the CPUC. These costs may not be recoverable through regulatory processes or otherwise unless SCE can establish that the costs were reasonably incurred. In addition, SCE faces inherent execution risks including such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, public opposition, permitting delays, and governmental approvals. Decommissioning costs ultimately incurred could exceed the current estimates and cost increases resulting from contractual disputes or significant permitting delays, among other things, could cause SCE to materially overrun current decommissioning cost estimates and could materially impact the sufficiency of trust funds. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Decommissioning of San Onofre" in the MD&A.

Even though San Onofre is being decommissioned, the presence of spent nuclear fuel still poses a potential risk of a nuclear incident. Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection, which is currently approximately $13.8 billion for Palo Verde and $560 million for San Onofre. SCE and other owners of San Onofre and Palo Verde have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $450 million per site. In the case of San Onofre, the balance is covered by a US Government indemnity. In the case of Palo Verde, the balance is covered by a loss sharing program among nuclear reactor licensees. There is no assurance that the CPUC would allow SCE to recover the required contribution made pursuant to this loss sharing program in the case of one or more nuclear incidents with claims that exceeded $450 million at a nuclear reactor which is participating in the program. If this public liability limit of $13.8 billion is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event the additional federal appropriations are insufficient. For more information on nuclear insurance risk, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Nuclear Insurance."

SCE's anticipated new customer service system is subject to implementation and cost-recovery risks that could materially affect SCE's business and financial condition.

SCE is currently testing a new customer service system that it anticipates implementing in the second quarter of 2021. If the customer service system does not function as intended upon implementation, SCE could experience, among other things, 

45

delayed or inaccurate customer bills that lead to over- or under- collections and other customer service concerns or degradation. Further, the process of implementing new technologies like the new customer service system represents opportunity for cybersecurity attacks on SCE's information systems, which could lead to sensitive confidential personal and other data being compromised. Customer service degradation or the compromise of sensitive confidential personal and other data could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, material financial loss to SCE or to its customers, customer dissatisfaction, loss of confidence in SCE's security measures, and significant litigation and/or regulatory exposure, all of which could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations and materially damage the business reputation of Edison International and SCE.

The expected cost of the new customer service system is significantly higher than SCE had originally projected. If the CPUC determines that any costs incurred by SCE to design, build, test and implement the customer service system were not reasonably or prudently incurred, SCE will not be able to recover such costs through electric rates.

Climate change exacerbated weather-related incidents and other natural disasters could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations.

Weather-related incidents, including storms and events caused, or exacerbated, by climate change, such as wildfires and debris flows, and other natural disasters such as earthquakes can disrupt the generation and transmission of electricity, and can seriously damage the infrastructure necessary to deliver power to SCE's customers.

Climate change has caused, and exacerbated, extreme weather events and wildfires in southern California, and wildfires could cause, among other things, public safety issues, property damage and operational issues. In addition, the risk of debris flows occurring as a result of rain may be heightened. For example, the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events resulted in, among other things, loss of life, property damage and loss of service. For more information on the impact of the 2017/2018 Wildfire/Mudslide Events on SCE and Edison International, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Southern California Wildfires and Mudslides."

Extreme heat events can lead to prolonged widespread outages due to, among other things, rotating outages or equipment failure. Extreme weather events can also lead to use of PSPS. Earthquakes and weather-related events, such as debris flows and melting of significantly higher than normal snow pack, can cause over-topping or failure at an SCE dam resulting in a rapid release of water that could cause, among other things, public safety issues, property damage and operational issues.

Weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can lead to lost revenue and increased expense, including higher maintenance and repair costs, which SCE may not be able to recover from its customers. These incidents can also result in regulatory penalties and disallowances, particularly if SCE encounters difficulties in restoring power to its customers on a timely basis or if fire-related losses are found to be the result of utility practices and/or the failure of electric and other utility equipment. In addition, these occurrences could lead to significant claims for damages, including for loss of life and property damage. These occurrences could materially affect SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations, and the inability to restore power to SCE's customers could also materially damage the business reputation of SCE and Edison International.

The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity are hazardous and involve inherent risks of damage to private property and injury to employees and the general public.

Electricity poses hazards for employees and the general public should they come in contact with electrical current or equipment, including through energized downed power lines or if equipment malfunctions. In addition, the risks associated with the operation of transmission and distribution assets and power generating facilities include public and employee safety issues and the risk of utility assets causing or contributing to wildfires.

Injuries and property damage caused by such events can subject SCE to liability that, despite the existence of insurance coverage, can be significant. No assurance can be given that future losses will not exceed the limits of SCE's or its contractors' insurance coverage. The CPUC has increased its focus on public safety with an emphasis on heightened compliance with construction and operating standards and the potential for penalties being imposed on utilities. Additionally, the CPUC has delegated to its staff the authority to issue citations to electric utilities, which can impose fines of up to $100,000 per violation per day (capped at a maximum of $8 million), pursuant to the CPUC's jurisdiction for violations of safety rules found in statutes, regulations, and the CPUC's General Orders. The CPUC also can issue fines greater than $8 million outside of the citation program. Such penalties and liabilities could be significant and materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations.

46

SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities.

SCE's infrastructure is aging and could pose a risk to system reliability. In addition, as described above, wildfires in SCE's service territory can cause significant public safety issues, property damage and operational issues. In order to mitigate these risks, SCE is engaged in a significant and ongoing infrastructure investment program. This substantial investment program elevates operational risks and the need for superior execution in SCE's activities. SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage these risks as well as the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities, the operation of which can be hazardous. SCE's inherent operating risks include such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, data and records accuracy, public opposition to infrastructure projects, delays, environmental remediation and mitigation costs, difficulty in estimating costs or in recovering costs that are above original estimates, system limitations and degradation, maintaining physical security of workforce and assets, and interruptions in necessary supplies.

SCE's distribution of water and propane gas on Catalina Island involves inherent risks of damage to private property and the environment and injury to employees and the general public.

SCE owns and operates the water distribution system that serves Catalina Island, California and a propane gas distribution system that serves the City of Avalon on Catalina Island, California. Production, storage, treatment and distribution of water for human use and the transportation, storage, distribution and use of gas can be hazardous, and can cause damage to private property and the environment and injury to employees and the general public if equipment fails or does not perform as anticipated. For example, the risks of operating a water distribution system include the potential for burst pipes and water contamination and the risks of operating gas distribution system include the potential for gas leaks, fire or explosion. The risks related to SCE's operation of its water distribution system may be exacerbated due to aging infrastructure. In addition, SCE may have to pay fines, penalties and remediation costs if it does not comply with laws and regulations in the operation of the water and gas distribution systems. An inability to recover costs associated with any such damages or injuries or any fines, penalties or remediation costs, from insurance or through rate payers, could materially affect SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations.

Financing Risks

As a capital-intensive company, SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access the capital markets or the cost of financing were to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations could be materially affected.

SCE regularly accesses the capital markets to finance its activities and is expected to do so by its regulators as part of its obligation to serve as a regulated utility. SCE's needs for capital for its ongoing infrastructure investment program are substantial. SCE's ability to obtain financing, as well as its ability to refinance debt and make scheduled payments of principal and interest, are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. In addition, the actions of other California investor-owned utilities and legal, regulatory and legislative decisions impacting investor-owned utilities can affect market conditions and therefore, SCE's ability to obtain financing. SCE's inability to obtain additional capital from time to time could have a material effect on SCE's liquidity and operations.

Competitive and Market Risks

SCE's inability to effectively and timely respond to the changes that the electricity industry is undergoing, as a result of increased competition, technological advances, and changes to the regulatory environment, could materially impact SCE's business model, financial condition and results of operations.

Customers and third parties are increasingly deploying DERs, such as solar generation, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. California's environmental policy objectives are accelerating the pace and scope of industry change. This change will require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect DERs. In addition, enabling California's clean energy economy goals will require sustained investments in grid modernization, renewable integration projects, energy efficiency programs, energy storage options and electric vehicle infrastructures. If SCE is unable to effectively adapt to these changes, its business model, its ability to execute on its strategy, and ultimately its financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted.

Customer-owned generation and load departures to CCAs or Electric Service Providers each reduce the amount of electricity that customers purchase from utilities and have the effect of increasing utility rates unless customer rates are designed to allocate the costs of the distribution grid across all customers that benefit from its use. For example, some customers in 

47

California who generate their own power are not currently required to pay all transmission and distribution charges and non-bypassable charges, subject to limitations, which results in increased utility rates for those customers who do not own their generation. If regulations aren't changed such that customers pay their share of transmission and distribution charges and non-bypassable charges or the demand for electricity reduces so significantly that SCE is no longer effectively able to recover such charges from its customers, SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially impacted.

In addition, the FERC has opened transmission development to competition from independent developers, allowing such developers to compete with incumbent utilities for the construction and operation of transmission facilities.

For more information. See "Business—SCE—Competition."

Cybersecurity and Physical Security Risks

SCE's systems and network infrastructure are targets for physical and cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality.

Regulators such as NERC and U.S. Government agencies, including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and Energy, have increasingly stressed that threat sources continue to seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the U.S. national electric grid and other energy infrastructures, and that such attacks and disruptions, both physical and cyber, are highly sophisticated and dynamic. In 2020, several U.S. Government agencies have highlighted the increasing risks related to ransomware attacks and cybersecurity risks related to the electric sector, including its supply chains.

SCE's operations require the continuous availability of critical information technology systems, sensitive customer and employee data and network infrastructure and information, all of which are targets for malicious actors. New cyber and physical threats arise as SCE moves from an analog to a digital electric grid. For example, SCE's grid modernization efforts and the move to a network-connected grid increases the number of "threat surfaces" and potential vulnerabilities that an adversary can target.

SCE depends on a wide array of vendors to provide it with services and equipment. Malicious actors may attack vendors to disrupt the services they provide to SCE, or to use those vendors as a cyber conduit to attack SCE. Additionally, the equipment and material provided by SCE's vendors may contain cyber vulnerabilities. A compromise of equipment and/or exfiltration of SCE data, whether by physical or by electronic means, could result in loss or changes to confidential or sensitive electronic data, loss of intellectual property and interruption of business processes. While some of SCE's vendors have experienced cybersecurity incidents, such incidents have not, to SCE’s knowledge, resulted in a material impact to SCE to date.

SCE's systems have experienced, and will continue to experience, cybersecurity incidents involving attacks of malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and other illicit activities, but to SCE's knowledge it has not experienced a material cybersecurity or data breach to date. Though SCE actively monitors developments in this area and is involved in various industry groups and government initiatives, no security measures can completely shield its systems and infrastructure from cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality.

If SCE's information technology and operational technology systems' security measures were to be breached, or a critical system failure were to occur without timely recovery, SCE could be unable to fulfill critical business functions, such as delivery of electricity to customers, and/or sensitive confidential personal and other data could be compromised, which could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, material financial loss to SCE or to its customers, loss of confidence in SCE's security measures, customer dissatisfaction, and significant litigation and/or regulatory exposure, all of which could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations and materially damage the business reputation of Edison International and SCE. 

RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL AND SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY

Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted by events, like the COVID-19 pandemic, that cause significant disruption to economies, societies or workforces on a regional, statewide, national or global basis.

Edison International and SCE could be materially and adversely impacted by events, such as the widespread outbreak of a communicable disease, that result in, among other things, significant disruption to economies, societies or workforces on a regional, statewide, national or global basis. The global spread of COVID-19, which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020, has created significant uncertainty, volatility and disruption globally and has impacted the operations of Edison International and SCE. The total impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on Edison International and 

48

SCE are still emerging, and the extent to which the pandemic affects Edison International's and SCE's business, operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors that Edison International and SCE are unable to accurately predict at this time, including, without limitation: the duration and scope of the pandemic; the availability, efficacy and use of vaccinations, governmental, business and individual actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic; the impact of the pandemic on economic activity; and the impact of the pandemic on Edison International's and SCE's employees, customers, contractors, insurers and service providers.

Many of the risks and uncertainties identified in this Form 10-K are, and will be, exacerbated by the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions being taken by governmental entities, businesses, individuals and others in response to the pandemic. Some examples follow. Similar to other companies in California, a large portion of Edison International's and SCE's workforce, including employees of their contractors, may be unable to perform their job functions effectively due to illness, family illness, quarantine requirements, social-distancing, telework requirements and other impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, as a result of actions being taken in response to the pandemic, SCE's supply chains have faced constraints and SCE has faced challenges from local permitting authorities. If a significant portion of SCE's workforce cannot effectively perform their job functions, SCE is unable to procure required materials, SCE does not timely obtain any required permits and/or local authorities prohibit SCE from conducting previously permitted work, SCE will likely be unable to effectively and timely complete planned work and projects, including its WMP and capital projects. Further, SCE may be unable to effectively execute its PSPS program due to, among other things, requests from local and State authorities not to shut off the power during the pandemic, and thereby may increase the risk of SCE equipment being associated with the ignition of wildfires.

In addition, impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on SCE's customers and third parties could also result in SCE facing, among other things, significant reductions in demand for electricity and payment delays and/or defaults from customers which could result in significant under-collections. Edison International and SCE could also face payment delays and/or defaults from insurers and other counterparties. Furthermore, capital markets were impacted by the pandemic in early 2020 and, at the time, this did increase Edison International's and SCE's costs of accessing those markets. Edison International's and SCE's access to the bank and capital markets could also be constrained and/or the costs of accessing those markets could increase as a result of the pandemic, including if Edison International's and/or SCE's credit ratings are downgraded, or placed on negative watch due to concerns about Edison International and/or SCE's financial health as a result of the impacts of the pandemic. SCE may also incur significant incremental costs as a result of actions it is taking in response to the pandemic, including costs being incurred to maintain its operations and assist its employees who are required to telework or are otherwise impacted by the pandemic. SCE could also face delays in important legal and regulatory proceedings. These impacts, among others, could materially and adversely impact Edison International's and SCE's business, operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial results.

For more information on see "Management Overview—COVID-19" in the MD&A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK