ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

For identification and discussion of the most significant risks applicable to the Company and its business, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Certain information about Eastman's executive officers is provided below:

Mark J. Costa, age 54, is Chair of the Eastman Chemical Company Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Costa joined the Company in June 2006 as Chief Marketing Officer and leader of corporate strategy and business development; was appointed Executive Vice President, Specialty Plastics and Performance Polymers Head and Chief Marketing Officer in August 2008; was appointed Executive Vice President, Specialty Products and Chief Marketing Officer in May 2009; and became President and a member of the Board of Directors in May 2013. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Costa was a senior partner with Monitor Group, a global management consulting firm. He joined Monitor in 1988, and his experience included corporate and business unit strategies, asset portfolio strategies, innovation and marketing, and channel strategies across a wide range of industries. Mr. Costa was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2014 and was named Board Chair effective July 2014.

William T. McLain, Jr., age 48, is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. McLain joined Eastman in 2000 and has served in high-level finance and accounting roles throughout the organization in the United States, Asia, and Europe. In 2011, Mr. McLain served as Director, Asia Pacific Finance, and in 2013 was appointed to International Controller. In 2014, Mr. McLain was appointed Corporate Controller until 2016 when he became Vice President of Finance. He was appointed to his current position in February 2020. Prior to Eastman, Mr. McLain worked for the public accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

Brad A. Lich, age 53, is Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, with responsibility for the AM and Fibers segments, outside-U.S. regional business leadership, and the marketing, sales, pricing, and procurement organizations. Mr. Lich joined Eastman in 2001 as Director of Global Product Management and Marketing for the Coatings business. Other positions of increasing responsibility followed, including General Manager of Emerging Markets of the former Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI") segment. In 2006, Mr. Lich became Vice President of Global Marketing with direct responsibility for company-wide global marketing functions. In 2008, Mr. Lich was appointed Vice President and General Manager of the CASPI segment, and in 2012 was appointed Vice President and General Manager of the AFP segment. In January 2014, Mr. Lich was appointed Executive Vice President, with responsibility for the AFP and AM segments and the marketing, sales, and pricing organizations. In March 2016, Mr. Lich assumed executive responsibility for outside-U.S. regional business leadership. Mr. Lich was appointed to his current position effective July 2016.

Lucian Boldea, age 49, is Executive Vice President with responsibility for the AFP and CI segments. Dr. Boldea joined Eastman in 1997 as a chemist. During his career at Eastman, he has held various positions in R&D, licensing, business management, and corporate growth platforms leadership in the AM segment. Between 2012 and 2015 he served as Vice President and General Manager, Specialty Plastics, in the AM segment. In 2015, he was appointed Group Vice President and General Manager of the AFP segment and became Senior Vice President of the AFP segment in July 2016. Dr. Boldea was appointed to his current position effective January 2019.

24

Mark K. Cox, age 55, is Senior Vice President and Chief Manufacturing, Supply Chain, and Engineering Officer. Mr. Cox joined Eastman in 1986 and has served in a variety of management positions, including commercial, engineering, manufacturing, and technology leadership roles. In August 2008, Mr. Cox was appointed Vice President, Chemicals and Fibers Technology. Beginning in May 2009, Mr. Cox served as Vice President, Chemicals, Fibers, and Performance Polymers Technology. He was appointed Vice President, Worldwide Engineering and Construction in August 2010, appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Manufacturing and Engineering Officer effective January 2014, and to his current position effective March 2016.

Stephen G. Crawford, age 56, is Senior Vice President and Chief Technology and Sustainability Officer, with executive responsibility for innovation and sustainability. Mr. Crawford joined Eastman in 1984 and held leadership positions of increasing responsibility in both the manufacturing and technology organizations. From 2007 until January 2014 he served as Vice President of Global R&D in the AM and AFP segments. He was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer effective January 2014, and to his current position effective October 2019.

Kellye L. Walker, age 54, is Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer. Ms. Walker joined Eastman in April 2020. Ms. Walker has overall leadership responsibility for Eastman's legal organization, including corporate governance, compliance and litigation management, as well as government affairs, product stewardship and regulatory affairs, global business conduct and the Company's global health, safety, environment and security organization. For the five years prior to joining Eastman, Ms. Walker served as executive vice president and chief legal officer of Huntington Ingalls Industries. Prior to that, Ms. Walker's work experience includes serving as general counsel or chief legal officer at American Water Works Company, Diageo North America, and BJ's Wholesale Club.

Perry Stuckey III, age 61, is Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Stuckey joined Eastman in 2011 as Vice President, Global Human Resources, and was responsible for Eastman's human resources strategy and services worldwide. Mr. Stuckey's work experience includes a variety of global human resource management positions in manufacturing, industrial automation, and bio-technology companies, including Hill-Rom Company, Rockwell Automation, and Monsanto Company. Mr. Stuckey was appointed to his current position in January 2013.

Scott V. King, age 52, is Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Since joining Eastman in 1999 as Manager, Corporate Consolidations and External Reporting, Mr. King has held various positions of increasing responsibility in the financial organization. He was first appointed Corporate Controller in August 2007 and has served as Chief Accounting Officer since September 2008. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. King was an audit and business advisory manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

ITEM 2.PROPERTIES