ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

We are exposed to certain market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity steel pricing, commodity energy prices, and interest rates. Changes in these factors cause fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows. We evaluate and manage exposure to these market risks as follows:

Foreign currency exchange rates – Foreign currency fluctuations can affect our net investments, our operations in countries other than the U.S., and earnings denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, our primary exchange rate exposure has been with the Canadian dollar against the United States dollar. Our estimated net earnings exposure for foreign currency exchange rates was not material at year end. We have not historically hedged our foreign currency risk given that exposure to date has not been material. In 2020, changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced our reported net sales by $5.7 with the estimated effect on our net earnings being immaterial.

Commodity steel pricing – We buy and sell various types of steel products; these products consist primarily of different types of threaded fasteners and related hardware. We are exposed to the impacts of commodity steel pricing and our related ability to pass through the impacts to our end customers. During 2020, the price of commodity steel as reflected in many market indexes fell sharply early in the year as business activity declined in response to actions to address the COVID-19 pandemic, recovered sharply as business activity rebounded, and finished 2020 above the preceding year end levels. During 2019, the price of commodity steel as reflected in many market indexes declined.

Commodity energy prices – We have market risk for changes in prices of oil, gasoline, diesel fuel, natural gas, and electricity. Prices for gasoline and diesel were mostly lower over the course of 2020 as business activity declined in response to actions to address the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, we experienced lower fuel costs through most of 2020. In 2019, prices for gasoline and diesel were stable in the early part of the year, but began to decline in the latter part of the year with slowing economic activity. As a result, we experienced stable fuel costs through 2019. Fossil fuels are also often a key feedstock for chemicals and plastics that comprise a key raw material for many products that we sell. Although fuel prices were lower through much of 2020, we experienced stable, not lower, prices for products with high chemical or plastic content. Stable fuel costs in 2019 resulted in stable product costs. We believe that over time these risks are mitigated in part by our ability to pass freight and product costs to our customers, the efficiency of our trucking distribution network, and the ability, over time, to manage our occupancy costs related to the heating and cooling of our facilities through better efficiency. In 2020, our estimated net earnings exposure for commodity energy prices was immaterial.

Interest rates - Loans under our Credit Facility bear interest at floating rates tied to LIBOR (or, if LIBOR is no longer available, at a replacement rate to be determined by the administrative agent for the Credit Facility and consented to by us). As a result, changes in LIBOR can affect our operating results and liquidity to the extent we do not have effective interest rate swap arrangements in place. We have not historically used interest rate swap arrangements to hedge the variable interest rates under our Credit Facility. A one percentage point increase in LIBOR in 2020 would have resulted in approximately $1.3 of additional interest expense. A description of our Credit Facility is contained in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

41
ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA