PART I

Item 1. Business

General

Foot Locker, Inc., incorporated under the laws of the State of New York in 1989, is a leading global retailer. Foot Locker, Inc. leads the celebration of sneaker and youth culture around the globe through a portfolio of brands including Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Eastbay, Footaction, and Sidestep. As of January 30, 2021, we operated 2,998 primarily mall-based stores, as well as stores in high-traffic urban retail areas and high streets, in 27 countries across the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, and Asia. Our purpose is to inspire and empower youth culture around the world, by fueling a shared passion for self-expression and creating unrivaled experiences at the heart of the global sneaker community.

Foot Locker, Inc. uses its omni-channel capabilities to bridge the digital world and physical stores, including order-in-store, buy online and pickup-in-store, and buy online and ship-from-store, as well as e-commerce. We operate websites and mobile apps aligned with the brand names of our store banners (including footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, kidsfootlocker.com, champssports.com, footaction.com, footlocker.ca, footlocker.eu and related e-commerce sites in the various European countries that we operate, footlocker.com.au, footlocker.com.nz, sidestep-shoes.de, sidestep-shoes.nl, footlocker.hk, footlocker.sg, footlocker.mo, and footlocker.my). These sites offer some of the largest online product selections and provide a seamless link between e-commerce and physical stores. We also operate the websites for eastbay.com, final-score.com, and eastbayteamsales.com.

Foot Locker, Inc. and its subsidiaries hereafter are referred to as the “Registrant,” “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us.” Foot Locker, Inc. has its corporate headquarters in New York. The service marks, trade names, and trademarks appearing in this report (except for Nike, Jordan, adidas, and Puma) are owned by Foot Locker, Inc. or its subsidiaries.

Store and Operations Profile[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following is a brief description of each of our banners:

Foot Locker — Foot Locker is a leading global youth culture brand that connects the sneaker obsessed consumer with the most innovative and culturally relevant sneakers and apparel. Across all our consumer touchpoints, Foot Locker enables consumers to fulfill their desire to be part of sneaker and youth culture. We curate special product assortments and marketing content that supports our premium position, from leading global brands such as Nike, Jordan, adidas, and Puma, as well as new and emerging brands in the athletic and lifestyle space. We connect emotionally with our consumers through a combination of global brand events and highly targeted and personalized experiences in local markets including our community-based Power Stores, which provide pinnacle retail experiences that deliver connected customer interactions through service, experience, product, and a sense of community. Foot Locker’s 1,686 stores are located in 27 countries including 848 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 101 in Canada, 624 in Europe, a combined 93 in Australia and New Zealand, and 20 in Asia. Our domestic stores have an average of 2,800 selling square feet and our international stores have an average of 1,800 selling square feet.

​

2020 Form 10-K Page 1

​ 

​

Kids Foot Locker — Kids Foot Locker offers the largest selection of premium brand-name athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories for children. Kids Foot Locker enables youth of all ages to participate in sneaker culture and helps their parents shop in a curated environment with only the best assortment in stores and online. Of our 422 stores, 373 are located in the United States, and Puerto Rico, 31 in Europe, 16 in Canada, 1 in Australia, and 1 in New Zealand. These stores have an average of 1,700 selling square feet.

Lady Foot Locker — Lady Foot Locker is a U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel, and accessories dedicated to sneaker-obsessed young women. Our stores provide premium sneakers and apparel, carefully selected to reflect the latest styles. Lady Foot Locker operates 35 stores that are located in the United States and Puerto Rico. These stores have an average of 1,500 selling square feet.

Champs Sports — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. With a focus on the lifestyle expression of sport, Champs Sports’ product categories include athletic footwear and apparel, and sport-lifestyle inspired accessories. This assortment allows Champs Sports to offer the best head-to-toe fashion stories representing the most powerful athletic brands, sports teams, and athletes in North America. Of our 539 stores, 506 are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands and 33 in Canada. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,600 selling square feet.

Footaction — Footaction is a North American athletic footwear and apparel retailer that offers the freshest, best edited selection of athletic lifestyle brands and looks. This banner is uniquely positioned at the intersection of sport and style, with a focus on authentic, premium product. Of our 240 stores, 235 are located in the United States and Puerto Rico and 5 are in Canada. The Footaction stores have an average of 3,200 selling square feet.

Runners Point — We closed our Runners Point banner during 2020. 

Sidestep — Sidestep is a predominantly athletic fashion footwear banner. Our 76 stores are located in Germany, Netherlands, and Switzerland. Sidestep caters to a more discerning, fashion forward consumer. Sidestep stores have an average of 1,200 selling square feet. 

Eastbay

Eastbay is a sporting goods direct marketer operating in the United States, providing high school and other athletes with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, and team licensed merchandise for a broad range of sports. With over 100 sales professionals, Eastbay Team Sales connects directly with thousands of high school coaches and athletic directors in the United States in offering the best performance product and a premium service level. 

Franchise Operations

We have a total of 127 franchised Foot Locker stores located within the Middle East as of January 30, 2021, of which 58 are in Israel. These amounts are not included in the store counts in the table on the prior page.

Competition

The athletic footwear and apparel industry is highly competitive. We compete primarily with athletic footwear specialty stores, sporting goods stores, department stores, traditional shoe stores, mass merchandisers, and online retailers, some of which are our suppliers. 

Merchandise Purchases

Financial information concerning merchandise purchases is contained under the “Liquidity” section in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and under the “Business Risk” section in the Financial Instruments and Risk Management note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Human Capital

Our purpose is to inspire and empower youth culture around the world, by fueling a shared passion for self-expression and creating unrivaled experiences at the heart of the global sneaker community. We believe the strength of our workforce is a significant contributor to our success as a global brand that leads with purpose. We seek to be a great place to work by cultivating and celebrating a culture that promotes diversity, inclusion, and belonging. Our “Live Well. Work Well.” framework enables us to provide support and resources for a variety of needs to help our team members reach their fullest potential.

2020 Form 10-K Page 2

​ 

​

Our People Strategy includes actions around “Uniting our Communities of Talent” around the world to achieve focus and drive results as a more agile and dynamic organization. By creating a Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Strategy (DIBs) as part of our people processes, we are able to attract, select, hire, grow, develop, promote, and retain valued team members with diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences. We are relentless in creating a work environment that celebrates the differences that make us even stronger. We provide career growth and professional development through formal learning and on-the-job experiences to advance our team members capability, confidence, and contribution.

We offer competitive compensation (including salary, incentive bonus, and equity) and benefits packages in each of our locations around the globe. Our compensation program is designed to attract and reward talented individuals who possess the skills necessary to lead and support our business objectives, ensure the achievement of our strategic goals, and create long-term value for our shareholders. To support our team members, we provide competitive compensation and benefits, including:

●Health and wellness benefits (medical, dental, vision, and behavioral health coverage)

●Financial benefits (401(k) Plan with Company matching contribution, life and disability coverage, Employee Stock Purchase Plan at a 15 percent discount, and commuter benefits)

●Work-life balance and lifestyle benefits (such as paid time off for full-time team members and Employee Discount Program for all team members)

●Tuition reimbursement in the United States and EMEA only

●Outside the United States, we may offer supplemental Health and Wellness benefits, as well as Retirement benefits, based on local competitive practices.

​

Through our listening session communication strategy, we are committed to listening to and learning from our team members. For many years, we have tracked engagement and leadership effectiveness through our engagement surveys. We have improved our overall engagement, with 80 percent overall favorable rating and 85 percent response rate in 2020. We use insights from these surveys to assess our culture, evaluate our leaders, adjust our plans, and evolve our culture.

We had 15,791 full-time and 35,461 part-time employees as of January 30, 2021 and we consider employee relations to be satisfactory.

We are committed to engaging in corporate social responsibility and sustainability initiatives that support our communities and help us develop trusted relationships with our stakeholders. Our Corporate Social Responsibility disclosure is available to investors on the investor relations tab of our corporate website under the heading “Responsibility.”

Available Information

We maintain a corporate website at www.footlocker-inc.com. Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Corporate Governance section of our corporate website contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Committee Charters, and the Code of Business Conduct for directors, officers and employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer. Copies of these documents may also be obtained free of charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary at 330 West 34th Street, New York, N.Y. 10001.

Item 1A. Risk Factors