ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Acquisition by Teledyne

On January 4, 2021, Teledyne and the Company announced that the companies have entered into a Merger Agreement under which Teledyne will acquire FLIR in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $8.0 billion. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, FLIR stockholders will receive $28.00 per share in cash and 0.0718 shares of Teledyne common stock for each FLIR share, which implies a total purchase price of approximately $56.00 per FLIR share based on Teledyne’s 5-day volume weighted average price as of December 31, 2020. The transaction is expected to close in the middle of 2021 subject to the receipt of required regulatory approvals, including expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, approvals of Teledyne and FLIR stockholders and other customary closing conditions. We cannot guarantee that the Mergers contemplated by the Merger Agreement will be completed or that, if completed, it will be exactly on the terms as set forth in the Merger Agreement. Should the Mergers not be completed, the Company may receive or pay a breakup fee, as provided for in the Merger Agreement.

Impact of COVID-19

On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a global health emergency. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization raised the COVID-19 outbreak to “pandemic” status. Transmission of COVID-19 and efforts to contain its spread resulted in international, national and local border closings and other significant travel restrictions and disruptions, significant disruptions to business operations, supply chains and customer activity, event cancellations and restrictions, service cancellations, reductions and other changes, significant challenges in healthcare service preparation and delivery, quarantines and related government actions and policies, as well as general concern and uncertainty that has negatively affected the U.S. and global economy and financial environments. In addition, as cases have resurged in parts of the U.S., including areas in which we maintain large facilities, we have seen governments slow or reverse efforts to reopen or shift into later phases of recovery, with increased risks to our operations.

The health and safety of our employees across the globe remain our top priority during this crisis. We have enacted stringent safety protocols to protect our employees and ensure we can continue to service our customers. We initiated a site entry restriction policy for external visitors to our facilities. We have also developed contingency plans for staggered work schedules designed to reduce the number of employees working at a given time. We are regularly deep cleaning our facilities, advising all employees to follow safe hygiene practices, and requiring employees to stay home if they have any of the known symptoms or have come into contact with people who have tested positive for COVID-19. We have also implemented global employee travel restrictions and allowed employees to work remotely if they are able to do so.

In aggregate, the outbreak did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial results in 2020. While the Industrial Technologies segment experienced an increase in demand for its EST cameras during 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which are being deployed to help prevent the spread of the virus, this increase has been partially offset by lower volume in certain commercial end markets. The Defense Technologies segment has experienced administrative processing delays impacting the timing of bookings and revenue. These trends are likely to affect the segment’s results in subsequent quarters, although it is not yet possible to estimate the longer-term effects of the pandemic.

We continue to monitor the evolving situation related to COVID-19. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts our operations or financial results will further depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the status of state and local government reopening plans and any resurgence of illness and the reimposition of certain restrictions in connection therewith, additional actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals to contain the virus or address its impact, new information which may emerge concerning the severity or treatability of the virus, the successful rollout of vaccines, new strains of the virus, and the extent of the economic downturn resulting from the response to the virus, among others.

Overview

We are a world leader in sensor systems that enhance perception and awareness. We were founded in 1978 and have since become a premier designer, manufacturer, and marketer of thermal imaging and other sensing products and systems. Our advanced sensors and integrated sensor systems enable the gathering and analysis of critical information through a wide variety of applications in government, industrial and commercial markets worldwide.

37

Our goal is to both enable our customers to benefit from the valuable information produced by advanced sensing technologies and to deliver sustained superior financial performance for our shareholders. We create value for our customers by improving personal and public safety and security, providing advanced intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and tactical defense capabilities, facilitating air, ground, and maritime-based situational awareness, detecting electrical, mechanical and building envelope problems, displaying process irregularities, detecting volatile organic gas emissions, and enhancing advanced driver-assistance systems and autonomous driving solutions, as well as a variety of other uses of thermal and other sensing technologies. Our business model and range of solutions allow us to sell products to various end markets, including industrial, original equipment manufacturing, military, homeland security, enterprise, infrastructure, and environmental end markets. We sell off-the-shelf products and customized solutions in configurations to suit specific customer requirements in an efficient, timely, and affordable manner, and support those customers with training and ongoing support and services. Centered on the design of products for low-cost manufacturing and high-volume distribution, our commercial operating model has been developed over time and provides us with a unique ability to adapt to market changes and meet our customers’ needs. 

International revenue accounted for approximately 46 percent, 45 percent and 47 percent of our revenue in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue in the future. We have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies. Factors contributing to this variability include significant manufacturing activity in Europe, significant sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, and cross currency fluctuations between such currencies as the United States dollar, European euro, Swedish kronor and British pound sterling. The impact of those fluctuations is reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements, but in the aggregate, did not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2020.

We experience fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variations and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States and certain foreign governments, the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance.

We expect that macroeconomic factors, including fluctuations in spending by United States government agencies, rates of GDP growth in certain geographic markets, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, will continue to impact our financial results and may render predictions regarding future performance difficult to make. In addition, in 2019 we successfully concluded a few large multi-year programs that provided revenue contributions over the past several years. While we have successfully won new programs, these new programs require investments in research and development and compliance to be successful, and investments in these programs will not translate into significant corresponding revenue until 2021 and beyond. 

Historically we have selectively pursued the acquisition of businesses and investments at attractive valuations that would expand or complement our current portfolio and allow access to new customers or technologies, and also have explored the divestiture of businesses that no longer meet our needs or strategy or that could perform better outside of our organization. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely have conducted discussions, evaluated targets and entered into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, ventures and equity investments.

We continue to build upon our strong market position, meeting the needs of our wide range of customers and are investing for long-term growth through the execution of our strategic priorities. To better position us to deliver long-term growth we launched a strategy-driven restructuring plan ("Project Be Ready") in February 2020. This initiative simplified our product portfolio and better aligned resources with higher growth opportunities while reducing costs. We discontinued certain non-core consumer centric product lines within the Outdoor and Tactical Systems business. In addition, we consolidated from three business units to two reportable segments (Industrial Technologies and Defense Technologies) by integrating the remaining businesses within the former Commercial business unit into the Industrial Technologies segment beginning in the first quarter of 2020.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. 

38

We evaluate our critical estimates on an on-going basis and base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and differences could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates are the most significant to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective and complex judgments:

Revenue recognition. We record revenue under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. We design, market and sell products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that we offer. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We regularly enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price. The vast majority of our revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer. However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.

Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third-party agency fees. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to our customers. Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements. Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contract period, as is the case for extended warranty contracts, or recognized as services are provided.

Inventory. Our policy is to record inventory write-downs when conditions exist that indicate that our inventories are likely to be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usages are evaluated within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our write-downs are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value and establish a new cost basis. As of December 31, 2020, our inventories of $472.2 million are stated net of prior inventory write-downs. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory write-downs may be required in the future.

Intangible Assets. We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the underlying tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values, with the excess recorded as goodwill. Such fair value assessments require judgments and estimates that can be affected by contract performance and other factors over time, which may cause final amounts to differ materially from original estimates. Adjustments to the fair value of purchased assets and liabilities after the initial measurement period are recognized in net earnings.

We recognize purchased intangible assets in connection with our business acquisitions at fair value on the acquisition date. The most significant purchased intangible assets recognized from our acquisitions are generally identifiable intangible assets. We determine the fair value of those intangible assets based on estimates and judgments, including, but not limited to, the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates.

Intangible assets are amortized using the method that best reflects how their economic benefits are utilized, or, if a pattern of economic benefits cannot be reliably determined, are amortized using a straight-line methodology over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are evaluated annually for impairment, or more frequently if required when circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment exists when the carrying value is greater than the expected undiscounted future cash flows expected to be provided by the asset group. If impairment exists, the asset group is written down to its fair value. The Company did not recognize any impairment charges on intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2020.

39

Goodwill. Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted the requirements of ASU 2017-04, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment." Goodwill represents the excess purchase price of an acquired enterprise over the estimated fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. We assess goodwill for potential impairment at the reporting unit level during the third quarter of each year, or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may exceed their fair value.

We elect to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. When performing a qualitative assessment, we consider factors including, but not limited to, current macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, the competitive environment, changes in the market for our products and services, regulatory and political developments and entity specific factors such as strategies and financial performance and other events relevant to the entity or reporting unit under evaluation. If, based on our review of qualitative factors, it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, (of if we elected to bypass assessing the qualitative factors) we would perform a quantitative impairment test to identify goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized (if any) by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge would be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 

During the first quarter of 2020, as a result of a deterioration in macroeconomic conditions driven by COVID-19 as well as Company-specific events which combined resulted in declines to our stock price and market capitalization, the Company determined it was more likely than not that these factors had a significant adverse impact on its reporting units. An interim quantitative goodwill impairment analysis was performed as of March 31, 2020 and the Company determined that the fair values of its reporting units were greater than their carrying values. During the third quarter of 2020, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis. The Company performed a qualitative analysis for all reporting units and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair values of the reporting units were in excess of the individual reporting units carrying values, and as a result, a quantitative step one analysis was not necessary. The Company did not recognize any impairment charges on goodwill during the year ended December 31, 2020.

Contingencies. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals and disclosures should be adjusted.

Income taxes. We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of the assets and liabilities measured using the enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized in the future. In making that determination, on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historical operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive pressures and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2020, we have determined that a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $4.4 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be recorded in the period such determination is made.

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, and in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We record a benefit on a tax position when we determine that it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. For tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained, we measure the tax position at the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized when it is effectively settled, using information that is available at the balance sheet date. We review our tax positions as circumstances warrant and update our liability for additional taxes as changes in available facts arise.

40

Consolidated Operating Results

The following discussion provides an overview of our operating results by addressing key elements in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations for 2020, 2019 and 2018. Given the nature of our business, we believe revenue and earnings from operations, or operating income (including operating margin percentage), are most relevant to an understanding of our performance at a segment level. Additionally, at the segment level we disclose backlog, which represents orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and no revenue has been recognized. Backlog is not an absolute indicator of future revenue because a portion of the orders in backlog could be delayed or canceled at the customer's discretion. Further, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as described above within “Impact of COVID-19,” we are unsure how future results will compare to historic trends in the conversion of backlog to revenue.

The following table summarizes our consolidated operating results for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM - Not meaningful

Revenue. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily associated with increased demand for EST solutions in Industrial Technologies as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and contributions of unmanned revenues from the Aeryon Labs, Inc. ("Aeryon") and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. ("Endeavor") acquisitions in Defense Technologies. The increase was partially offset by lower volume in certain commercial end markets in Industrial Technologies and the completion of certain contracts that contributed to revenue in the prior year in Defense Technologies.

The increase for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due the acquisitions of Aeryon and Endeavor during the first quarter of 2019, coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems in Defense Technologies. These were all partially offset by volume declines in the Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") business and the Maritime product lines during 2019 in Industrial Technologies. Further contributing to this decline was our divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security business announced during the first quarter of 2018.

41

International revenue in 2020 totaled $894.4 million, representing 46.4 percent of revenue. This compares with international revenue in 2019 which totaled $849.8 million, representing 45.0 percent of revenue, and $841.2 million in 2018, representing 47.4 percent of revenue. While the sales mix between United States and international sales may fluctuate from year to year, we expect revenue from customers outside the United States to continue to comprise a significant portion of our total revenue on a long-term basis.

Cost of goods sold.  The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to increased revenue volume, partially offset by a favorable product mix in Industrial Technologies and inventory write downs associated with the OTS restructuring taken in 2019 that did not repeat in 2020.

The increase for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to the acquisitions of Aeryon and Endeavor during the first quarter of 2019, coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems in Defense Technologies. The increase was partially offset by volume declines in the OTS business (including $5.9 million of inventory write downs associated with the OTS restructuring) and in the Maritime product lines during 2019 as well as the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security businesses during the first quarter of 2018 in Industrial Technologies.

Cost of goods sold includes materials, labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacturing of products and services sold in the period as well as warranty costs. Material costs include raw materials, purchased components and sub-assemblies, outside processing and inbound freight costs. Labor and overhead costs consist of direct and indirect manufacturing costs, including wages and fringe benefits, operating supplies, depreciation and amortization, occupancy costs, and purchasing, receiving and inspection costs.

Research and development. Research and development expenses represented 10.9 percent of revenue in 2020, compared to 10.8 percent of revenue in 2019 and 9.9 percent of revenue in 2018. The change in research and development expenses in 2020 as compared to 2019 was relatively flat. The increase in research and development expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018 was primarily related to the inclusion of companies acquired in 2019 and our commitment to research and development. We intend to continue to have significant research and development expenses in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative and high-quality products that maintain and enhance our competitive position in each of our business segments. We believe that future cash flow generation will be sufficient to support the development of new products that fuel the growth of the business. 

Selling, general and administrative expenses. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to operating expense reductions from Project Be Ready, decreases in travel and marketing costs, reduced intangible asset amortization, lower asset impairment charges related to restructuring actions and a decrease in separation, transaction, and integration costs.

The increase for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributed to acquisition related expenses for acquisitions occurring in the first half of 2019, Consent Agreement related costs and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges related to restructuring actions. 

Restructuring expenses. We had various active restructuring programs focused on reorganization and discontinuation of certain businesses, targeted workforce reductions, and facility consolidation actions. In the first quarter of 2020, we initiated a strategy-driven restructuring plan, Project Be Ready, to simplify our product portfolio and better align resources with higher growth opportunities while reducing costs. Project Be Ready included an organizational realignment, targeted workforce reductions, and facility optimization initiatives. All previously approved ongoing restructuring activities that were in process as of January 1, 2020 were consolidated into Project Be Ready. The net pre-tax restructuring charges recorded for these programs during the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily represent employee separation costs and third party and other costs. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 we also recorded net pre-tax restructuring charges in connection with other restructuring activities. Refer to Note 21, "Restructuring" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion. 

 Loss on sale of business. During the year ended December 31, 2018, as a result of the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business, net working capital adjustments, and subsequent negotiations with the buyer, we recognized an additional pre-tax loss of $13.7 million. 

Interest expense. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 was associated with our previous 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “2021 Notes”) in aggregate principal amount of $425.0 million and our 2.500 percent senior unsecured notes (the “2030 Notes”) in aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million that were issued and sold on August 3, 2020, as well as interest on amounts drawn under our credit facility. The 2021 Notes were redeemed in full in connection with the August 2020 issuance of the 2030 Notes in a public offering.

42

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was associated with our 2021 Notes as well as interest on amounts drawn under our credit facility. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily associated with the 2021 Notes.

Loss on debt extinguishment. During the year ended December 31, 2020 we recorded a $9.1 million loss on debt extinguishment due to the redemption of our 2021 Notes, which consisted of a $8.5 million payment of redemption premium and $0.6 million for the unamortized portion of the original issue discount and previously incurred issuance costs.

Other (income) expense, net. The change in other (income) expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to increased gains on currency exchange rate fluctuations and increased gains on certain deferred compensation arrangements.

The change in other (income) expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to impairments associated with our equity investments as well as minority investments losses. 

Income taxes. Our income tax provisions for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 represented effective tax rates of 25.4 percent, 29.1 percent and 8.0 percent, respectively. Our effective tax rate in 2020 was higher than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to state taxes, non-deductible expenses, accruals for unrecognized tax benefits and settlements with taxing authorities, and higher tax rates on income earned in foreign jurisdictions. These amounts were partially offset by tax credits generated in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate in 2019 was higher than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to accruals for settlements with various taxing authorities, state taxes, additional withholding tax due on future distributions of foreign earnings included in the transition tax levied by the Tax Act, and higher tax rates on income earned in foreign jurisdictions. These amounts were offset by tax credits generated in the United States and foreign jurisdictions as well as excess tax benefits from stock compensation. Our effective tax rate in 2018 was lower than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits relating to the European Union state aid recovery, excess tax benefits from stock compensation and a reduction in the accrual for the United States transition tax, offset partially by state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions, and other discrete items.

At December 31, 2020, we had United States tax net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $42.0 million which expire between 2032 and 2040 and are subject to annual limitation under Section 382 of the US Internal Revenue Code. In addition, we have various foreign net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $29.3 million, a portion of which expire between 2021 and 2040 and a portion of which have an indefinite carry-forward period. Tax benefits as described above are recorded as assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. To the extent that we assess the realization of such assets to not be more likely than not, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. As of December 31, 2020, we have determined that a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $4.4 million is required, primarily related to foreign net operating losses and capital losses carried forward. A review of all available positive and negative evidence is considered, including past and future performance, the market environment in which we operate, utilization of tax attributes in the past, length of carry-back and carry-forward periods, and evaluation of potential tax planning strategies, when evaluating whether the deferred tax assets will be realized.

During the fourth quarter of 2018, the STA issued a reassessment of tax for the year ending December 31, 2012 to one of our non-operating subsidiaries in Sweden. The reassessment concerns the use of tax credits applied against capital gains pursuant to European Union Council Directive 2009/133/EC, commonly referred to as the EU Merger Directive, and assesses taxes and penalties totaling approximately $365.7 million (Swedish kroner 3.0 billion). On March 26, 2020, we received an adverse judgment from the First Instance Court of Sweden (the “Court”) regarding the STA's reassessment. We do not agree with the Court’s ruling, continue to believe the STA's arguments in the reassessment are not in accordance with Swedish tax regulations or the treaty for the avoidance of double taxation between Sweden and Belgium, and have appealed the decision to the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. Consequently, no adjustment to the unrecognized tax benefits has been recorded in relation to this matter. We received a respite from paying the reassessment until after a decision by the Administrative Court of Appeal by putting in place a bank guarantee to secure possible future payment of the tax and interest. There can be no assurance that the appeal will be successful.

During the third quarter of 2019, the European Commission announced the opening of a separate review to assess whether an excess profit tax ruling granted by Belgium to one of our international subsidiaries is in breach of European Union state aid rules. We believe all taxes assessed by Belgium have been paid and have not adjusted unrecognized tax benefits in relation to this matter.

43

On March 27, 2020, the President signed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act"), the bipartisan $2.0 trillion economic relief package aimed at helping American workers and businesses impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. Through December 31, 2020 the CARES Act has not materially affected our income tax provision or deferred tax assets or liabilities. We will continue to monitor the effect of the CARES Act and ongoing government guidance related to COVID-19 that may be issued.

Segment Operating Results

In the first quarter of 2020, we completed a business reorganization as part of our "Project Be Ready" restructuring program, which resulted in identification of two reportable segments (Industrial Technologies and Defense Technologies). We commenced operating and reporting under the new organization structure effective January 1, 2020. See Note 19, “Operating Segments and Related Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a description of each operating segment, including the types of products and services from which each operating segment derives its revenues. See Note 21, "Restructuring" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further information on Project Be Ready.

Industrial Technologies Segment

Industrial Technologies operating results are as follows (in thousands, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to increased demand for EST solutions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by lower volume in commercial end markets. The increase in segment operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to the aforementioned higher revenue and associated gross profit, favorable product mix, operating expense reductions from Project Be Ready and decreases in marketing and travel costs. The increase in total backlog at December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily the result of award timing on long-term orders and an increased volume of orders for maritime products during the fourth quarter of 2020.

The decrease in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was predominantly attributable to declines in the Integrated Imaging Systems ("IIS") businesses and volume declines in the OTS business and Maritime product lines during 2019, partially offset by strong growth across the cooled cores product lines. The increase in segment operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was predominantly attributable to favorable product mix led by the OEM business and productivity initiatives to improve manufacturing efficiency and decrease product costs across all businesses. The increase in total backlog at December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to a substantial award from a large aerospace and defense customer.

Defense Technologies Segment

Defense Technologies operating results are as follows (in thousands, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44

The decrease in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts that contributed to revenue in the prior year period, partially offset by increased volumes for unmanned revenues from the Aeryon and Endeavor acquisitions. The decrease in segment operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to the lower revenue and associated gross profit and the ramp up of lower margin programs, partially offset by decreases in marketing and travel costs. The decrease in total backlog at December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily a result of order volume and subsequent deployment timing.

The increase in both revenue and segment operating income for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily driven by the Aeryon and Endeavor acquisitions during the first quarter of 2019 and increased volumes of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems. The decrease in segment operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of the operating losses from the same acquisitions noted above. The increase in total backlog at December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily driven by the first quarter of 2019 acquisitions as noted above in addition to the timing of orders and subsequent timing of deployment of major programs.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

At December 31, 2020, we had a total of $297.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, $88.8 million of which was in the United States and $209.0 million at our foreign subsidiaries.

At December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had outstanding debt of $738.4 million and $676.9 million, respectively, which consists of unsecured term loans and borrowings under the revolving credit facility that we entered into during 2019 (collectively referred to as the "Credit Agreement") and senior unsecured notes. On August 3, 2020, we issued and sold our 2030 Notes in an underwritten public offering. The aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $494.2 million after deducting underwriting fees, debt discount and transaction issuance costs. Interest on the 2030 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year beginning on February 1, 2021. The net proceeds from the sale of the 2030 Notes were used to redeem the 2021 Notes, and for general corporate purposes, which may include funding for working capital, investments in our subsidiaries, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and stock repurchases. In connection with the redemption of the 2021 Notes, during the third quarter of 2020, we recorded a $9.1 million loss on debt extinguishment on the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Credit Agreement contains one financial covenant that requires maintenance of a consolidated total leverage ratio with which we complied at December 31, 2020. We had $14.1 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2020, which reduced the total availability under the revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement. See Note 11, "Debt" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for more details.

On January 11, 2019, a standby letter of credit not to exceed Swedish kronor 2.2 billion, was issued under a new bilateral letter of credit reimbursement agreement ("L/C Agreement") to secure a payment guarantee required by the Swedish Tax Authority in order to grant the original respite from paying the tax reassessment described in Note 15, "Income Taxes" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The outstanding amount of the L/C Agreement was equivalent to approximately $270.5 million at December 31, 2020. While outstanding amounts under the L/C Agreement do not reduce the available revolving credit from the Credit Agreement, they are considered indebtedness and influence the incremental debt capacity governed by our Credit Agreement covenants. The standby letter of credit was further amended on April 24, 2020 to reflect the new respite.

We have repurchased shares of our common stock from time to time after considering market conditions and in accordance with repurchase limits authorized by our Board of Directors. Recent repurchases were conducted through open market transactions under the authorization by the Board of Directors on February 7, 2019 to repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock. This authorization expired on February 7, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 4.6 million shares were repurchased for total cash payments of approximately $166.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we retired 4.1 million shares and had classified 0.5 million shares in treasury stock. 

We paid dividends of $89.5 million, $91.7 million and $88.1 million during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

We have entered into the Merger Agreement with Teledyne and have agreed to pay a termination fee of $250.0 million to Teledyne if the Merger Agreement is terminated under any of the following circumstances:

45

•the Company’s Board makes a change in recommendation; 

•the Company enters into a definitive agreement to effect a superior proposal; or

•the Company’s stockholders do not approve the proposed transaction and an alternative proposal for the Company has been publicly disclosed and not withdrawn, the Company materially breaches the Merger Agreement and an alternative proposal for the Company has been publicly disclosed and not withdrawn or the Company willfully and materially breaches the non-solicitation covenant, in each case, only if within twelve months of such termination, the Company enters into a definitive agreement with respect to an alternative proposal that is subsequently consummated.

Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Teledyne would be required to pay the Company a termination fee of $250.0 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under any of the following circumstances:

•Teledyne’s Board makes a change in recommendation; or

•Teledyne’s stockholders do not approve the proposed transaction and an alternative proposal for Teledyne has been publicly disclosed and not withdrawn or Teledyne materially breaches the Merger Agreement and an alternative proposal for Teledyne has been publicly disclosed and not withdrawn, in each case, only if within twelve months of such termination, Teledyne enters into a definitive agreement with respect to an alternative proposal that is subsequently consummated.

In addition, the Company has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Mergers. The substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses relating to the Mergers. Many of these costs are payable regardless of whether or not the Mergers are consummated.

For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through existing cash on hand, cash generated from operations and, if needed, amounts available on our existing credit facilities or financing available from other sources. However, as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our operations evolve, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption could materially affect our business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition, and could materially adversely impact our customers or suppliers. In the event of a sustained market deterioration, we may need additional liquidity, which would require us to evaluate available alternatives and take appropriate actions. 

Summary of Cash Flows

The following table summarizes cash flow information for the periods presented (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $58.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to less favorable timing of working capital changes.

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to lower net earnings after adding back non-cash adjustments which were partially offset by more favorable changes in working capital. 

Net cash used in investing activities decreased $567.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to cash paid for business acquisitions during 2019.

Net cash used in investing activities increased $607.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to cash paid for business acquisitions during 2019, partially offset by $25.9 million generated from the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses during 2018. 

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities change of $277.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, was primarily due to lower net proceeds of $222.8 million from our Credit Agreement and senior unsecured notes, which included the 2030 Notes proceeds that were issued and sold on August 3, 2020, an increase of $41.3 million in repurchases of common stock and lower proceeds of $16.4 million from shares issued.

46

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities change of $373.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, was primarily due to $254.8 million of additional net proceeds from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt under our Credit Agreement and a decrease of $118.7 million in repurchases of common stock.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.

Contractual Obligations

As of December 31, 2020, our contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Principal and interest on long-term debt, operating leases and licensing rights obligations are based upon contractual terms. Actual payments may differ in terms of both timing and amounts. We did not include approximately $288.6 million of standby letters of credit and performance bonds due to the unlikely event of payment, if any, of amounts under those arrangements.

The Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of potential cash settlement of its remaining unrecognized tax benefits of $25.7 million and, therefore, has not included the related unrecognized tax benefits in the table of contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020. For further detail on unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 15, "Income Taxes," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1, "Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

47

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK