Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Interest Rate Risk. We have exposure to interest rate risk in connection with our long-term debt portfolio. We use interest rate swap agreements to manage our fixed/floating rate debt portfolio, none of which are for trading or speculative purposes. At January 31, 2021, after giving consideration to our interest rate swap agreements, floating rate debt principal was $4.7 billion, or approximately 13% of our long-term debt portfolio, and the fair values of our interest rate swap agreements totaled $101 million. A 1.0 percentage point change in the interest costs of floating-rate debt would not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 

The United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority has announced the phased cessation of publication of LIBOR beginning after 2021 and continuing through 2023. When LIBOR is discontinued, we may need to change the terms of certain of our floating rate notes, interest rate swap agreements, and credit instruments which utilize LIBOR as a 

34
benchmark in determining the interest rate, to replace LIBOR with the new standard that is established. As a result, we may incur incremental costs in transitioning to a new standard, and interest rates on our current or future indebtedness may be adversely affected by the new standard. Decisions have not been finalized regarding the replacement rates. As such, the potential effect of any such event on our cost of capital cannot yet be determined, but we do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. We are exposed to risks from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars and on the purchase of goods by these foreign operations that are not denominated in their local currencies. We use derivative and nonderivative instruments to hedge a portion of our foreign currency exchange rate risk, none of which are for trading or speculative purposes. Our foreign currency related derivative and nonderivative instruments outstanding at the end of fiscal 2020 were not material. 

Commodity Price Risk. We experience inflation and deflation related to our purchase of certain commodity products. This price volatility could potentially have a material impact on our financial condition and/or our results of operations. In order to mitigate price volatility, we monitor commodity price fluctuations and may adjust our selling prices accordingly; however, our ability to recover higher costs through increased pricing may be limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. We currently do not use derivative instruments to manage these risks.

35
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.