ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk 

Interest Expense Risk - Available-for-Sale Fixed Income Securities

The primary objectives of our investment activities are, in order of priority, to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and maximize yield. The value of our investments is subject to market price volatility. To minimize this risk, we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities, which includes asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. government securities. At any time, a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. Conversely, a decline in interest rates could have a material impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. We do not currently hedge these interest rate exposures. 

The following tables present hypothetical changes in fair value of our available-for-sale fixed income securities held as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 that are sensitive to changes in interest rates assuming immediate parallel shifts in the yield curve of 50 basis points, or BPS, 100 BPS and 150 BPS, which are representative of the historical movements in the Federal Funds Rate (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest rate swaps

The Company uses interest rate swaps to convert certain of our fixed interest rate notes to floating interest rates based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR), resulting in a net increase or decrease in interest expense. These swaps hedge against the interest rate risk exposures of the designated debt issuances. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the aggregate notional amount of the interest rate swaps was $300.0 million. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps resulted in an asset of $20.3 million and a liability of $3.1 million, respectively. A hypothetical 10% change in the interest rates as of December 31, 2020 would not have had a material impact to our operating results or the fair value of the interest rate swaps. 

Interest Rate Locks 

In 2020, the Company entered into interest rate locks for an aggregate notional amount of $650.0 million. These derivative instruments hedge the impact of changes in the benchmark interest rate to future interest payments and will be terminated upon closing of our future debt issuance. We record changes in the fair value of these cash flow hedges of interest rate risk in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the anticipated refinancing. Upon refinancing of our debt and termination of the derivative instruments, the fair value of these interest rate locks will be amortized over the term of our new debt to interest expense. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of these contracts resulted in an asset of $30.7 million. A hypothetical 10% change in the interest rates as of December 31, 2020 would not have had a material impact to the fair value of the interest rate locks.

Foreign Currency Risk and Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts

Periodically, we use derivatives to hedge against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.

We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the re-measurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign exchange forward contracts typically have maturities of approximately one to four months.

54
Our sales and costs of product revenues are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars. Our cost of service revenue and operating expenses are denominated in U.S. Dollars as well as other foreign currencies, including the British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, and the Indian Rupee. Approximately 79% of such costs and operating expenses are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Periodically, we use foreign currency forward and/or option contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions to reduce variability in cost of service revenue and operating expenses caused by non-U.S. Dollar denominated operating expense and costs. In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturities of thirty-six months or less. The change in operating expenses including cost of service revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, due to foreign currency fluctuations was a reduction to operating expenses of $11.6 million, or 0.3% and of $31.6 million, or 0.9% for years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. See Note 5, Derivative Instruments, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further discussion of our derivative and hedging activity.

We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2020 and as of December 31, 2019, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the amount of non-U.S. dollar cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities arising from a hypothetical 10% movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. The foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect on December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would change the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and investments we would report in U.S. Dollars as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 by $33.4 million, or 1.4% and by $38.2 million, or 1.5%, respectively.

Equity Price Risk 

We have also invested in privately-held companies. Depending on the nature of these investments, some can be carried at cost, adjusted for changes from observable transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer, less impairment, and others can be carried at fair value. The carrying values of our investments in privately-held companies were $201.9 million and $189.8 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. The privately-held companies in which we invest can still be considered to be in the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing, are typically in the early stages, and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. Our evaluation of investments in privately-held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses invested in, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return.

55
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data