Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

(Dollars in millions)

INTEREST RATE RISK

For our long-term debt of $3,269, our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily limited to changes in fair value. As our debt is primarily fixed-rate, changes in interest rates do not significantly impact our cash flows. However, changes in interest rates increase or decrease the fair value of our debt, depending on whether market rates are lower or higher than our fixed rates. In addition, $500 of our 4.00% senior unsecured notes will mature in October 2021, and if we refinance this debt, we are at risk of interest rate changes with respect to any difference between the existing interest rate and the interest rate on its replacement. As of January 30, 2021, the fair value of our long-term debt was $3,430 (see Note 8: Debt and Credit Facilities and Note 9: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8).

We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in short-term interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations can affect our interest income and interest expense. As of January 30, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents of $681 which generate interest income at variable rates. 

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK

The majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in U.S. Dollars. Our U.S. operations periodically enter into merchandise purchase orders denominated in British Pounds or Euros. From time to time, we may use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. As of January 30, 2021, our outstanding forward contracts did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our Canadian operations are comprised of the Nordstrom.ca website, six Nordstrom stores and seven Nordstrom Rack stores. Our Canadian operations enter into merchandise purchase orders denominated in U.S. Dollars for some portion of its inventory. As sales in Canada are denominated in the Canadian Dollar, gross profit for our Canadian operations can be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. As of January 30, 2021, activities associated with foreign currency exchange risk have not had a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8.)

32
Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.