Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK (in millions)

Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange and interest rates, and the Company regularly evaluates the exposure to such changes. The Company addresses its exposure to market risks, principally the market risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, through a controlled program of risk management that includes, from time to time, the use of derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward contracts, cross currency swaps and interest rate swap agreements. Although, as set forth below, the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes contained features that were considered to be embedded derivative instruments, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates

Approximately 10.7% and 12.7% of the Company's revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (USD). The Company's financial statements are reported in USD and, accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates will affect the translation of revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies into USD for purposes of reporting the Company's consolidated financial results. In both 2020 and 2019, the most significant currency exchange rate exposures were to the Canadian dollar, Swiss franc, euro and British pound. Excluding the impacts from any outstanding or future hedging transactions, a hypothetical change of 10% in average exchange rates used to translate all foreign currencies to USD would have impacted income before income taxes for 2020 by approximately $9.1. Gross accumulated currency translation adjustments recorded as a separate component of shareholders’ equity were $264.1 and $104.4 at December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively. The Company does not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly inflationary.

The Company earns revenue from service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over a period of several years. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect the Company's profitability with respect to such contracts. The Company is also subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of transactions. The Company limits its foreign currency transaction risk through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in some of its contracts with customers, or it may hedge transaction risk with foreign currency forward contracts. At December 31, 2020, the Company had 31 open foreign exchange forward contracts with various amounts maturing monthly through January 2021 with a notional value totaling approximately $601.2. At December 31, 2019, the Company had 34 open foreign exchange forward contracts with various amounts maturing monthly through January 2020 with a notional value totaling approximately $369.2. 

The Company is party to USD to Swiss Franc cross-currency swap agreements with a notional amount of $600.0, maturing in 2022 and 2025, as a hedge against the impact of foreign exchange movements on its net investment in its Swiss Franc functional currency subsidiary.

Interest Rates

Some of the Company's debt is subject to interest at variable rates. As a result, fluctuations in interest rates affect the Company's financial results. The Company attempts to manage interest rate risk and overall borrowing costs through an appropriate mix of fixed and variable rate debt including the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. 

Borrowings under the Company's term loan credit facilities and revolving credit facility are subject to variable interest rates, unless fixed through interest rate swaps or other agreements. As of December 31, 2020, and 2019, the Company had approximately $375.0 and $375.0, respectively, of unhedged variable rate debt under the 2019 term loan credit facility.

62

Index

Each quarter-point increase or decrease in the variable rate would result in the Company's interest expense changing by approximately $0.9 per year for the Company's unhedged variable rate debt.

During the third quarter of 2013, the Company entered into two fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements for its 4.625% Senior Notes due 2020 with an aggregate notional amount of $600.0 and variable interest rates based on one-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 2.298% to hedge against changes in the fair value of a portion of the Company's long-term debt. The Company exited one of these swap arrangements in December 2019 in connection with the redemption of $187.9 of the 4.625% Senior Notes due 2020 and recorded a gain of $1.6. The Company exited the remaining fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreement in August 2020, in connection with the redemption of the remaining $412.2 of its 4.625% Senior Notes due November 15, 2020, and recorded a gain of $1.6 on the extinguishment. 

On December 19, 2019, the Company redeemed any remaining outstanding zero-coupon subordinated notes due 2021 (the zero-coupon notes) that had not previously converted. 

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA