PART I

Item 1. Business. 

Throughout this report "Mattel" refers to Mattel, Inc. and/or one or more of its family of companies. Mattel is a leading global children's entertainment company that specializes in the design and production of quality toys and consumer products. Mattel's products are among the most widely recognized toy products in the world. Mattel's mission is to "create innovative products and experiences that inspire, entertain, and develop children through play." In order to deliver on this mission, Mattel is focused on the following two-part strategy to transform Mattel into an intellectual property ("IP") driven, high-performing toy company:

•In the short-term, improve profitability by optimizing operations and accelerate topline growth by growing Mattel's Power Brands and expanding Mattel's brand portfolio.

•In the mid-to-long-term, continue to make progress on capturing the full value of Mattel's IP through franchise management and online retail and e-commerce. 

Mattel is the owner of a portfolio of global brands with vast IP potential. Mattel's portfolio of owned and licensed brands and products are organized into the following categories:

Dolls—including brands such as Barbie, American Girl, Polly Pocket, Spirit (Universal) and Enchantimals. Mattel's Dolls portfolio is driven by the flagship Barbie brand and a collection of complementary brands offered globally. Empowering girls since 1959, Barbie has inspired the limitless potential of every girl by showing them that they can be anything. With an extensive portfolio of dolls and accessories, content, gaming, and lifestyle products, American Girl is best known for imparting valuable life lessons through its inspiring dolls and books, featuring diverse characters from past and present. Its products are sold directly to consumers via its catalog, website, and proprietary retail stores.

Infant, Toddler, and Preschool—including brands such as Fisher-Price and Thomas & Friends, Power Wheels, and Fireman Sam. As a leader in play and child development, Fisher-Price’s mission is to provide meaningful solutions for parents and enrich children’s lives from birth to school readiness, helping families get the best possible start. Thomas & Friends is an award-winning preschool train brand franchise that brings meaningful life lessons of friendship and teamwork to kids through content, toys, live events, and other lifestyle categories.

Vehicles—including brands such as Hot Wheels, Matchbox, CARS (Disney Pixar), and Mario Kart (Nintendo). In production for over 50 years, Hot Wheels continues to push the limits of performance and design and ignites the challenger spirit of kids, adults, and collectors. From die-cast vehicles, to tracks, playsets, and accessories, the Mattel vehicles portfolio has broad appeal that engages and excites kids of all ages. 

Action Figures, Building Sets, Games, and Other—including brands such as Masters of the Universe, MEGA, UNO, Toy Story (Disney Pixar), Jurassic World (NBCUniversal), WWE, and Star Wars (Disney).  From big blocks to small bricks, first builders to advanced collectors, MEGA creates building sets that encourage kids and adults to unlock their creative potential. America's number one game, UNO is the classic matching card game that is easy to learn and fast fun for everyone.

Business Segments

Mattel's operating segments are: (i) North America, which consists of the U.S. and Canada; (ii) International; and (iii) American Girl. The North America and International segments sell products across categories, although some products are developed and adapted for particular international markets.

For additional information on Mattel’s worldwide gross billings by brand category, see Part II, Item 7 "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations" 

4

North America Segment

The North America segment markets and sells toys in the U.S. and Canada across categories.

Dolls

Barbie will continue to deliver innovation, purpose-driven marketing campaigns, and engaging toys connected to a strong system of play. Barbie has a broad product offering, with segments designed to appeal to children from ages three to nine, complemented by a Barbie Signature segment with high quality dolls that appeal to fans of all ages. In 2021, Barbie will be featured in two Netflix content tentpoles, a full year of the new Barbie Extra segment, and exciting partnerships and pop culture collaborations, along with the launch of an all new Dreamhouse and Ken’s 60th anniversary.

In 2021, Polly Pocket will refresh its product offering with new product and packaging innovation, brand new themes, and the third season of its popular animated content series on streaming and broadcast platforms globally, while Enchantimals will launch a brand new Royals thematic and new content formats. Spirit product will be released in late Spring 2021, in partnership with NBCUniversal and will be tied to the popular series and 2021 theatrical release, delivering nurturing play to Mattel's core consumer. 2021 will also see new Doll product offerings in partnership with top-tier brands like Sanrio's Hello Kitty.

Infant, Toddler, and Preschool

In 2021, Fisher-Price will continue its focus on surprising and delighting consumers as a trusted partner for families with infants and preschoolers by continuing to create brand love through innovative solutions for parents and inviting adults back into the world of childhood through the "Let's be Kids" brand platform.

Thomas & Friends has delighted fans for generations through stories, toys, and lifestyle products, and, in 2021, Mattel will expand its effort to tell stories everywhere with more content on more platforms and in more ways than ever before. 

Vehicles

In 2021, industry leader Hot Wheels will look to continue its strong momentum as a multigenerational franchise with virtual and in-person expansions of its Hot Wheels Legends and Hot Wheels Monster Trucks Live tours, continued integrations with top video game franchises, and always-on premium content on YouTube. The Hot Wheels product offering will be expanded with particular emphasis on the Hot Wheels Monster Trucks franchise and the award-winning line of Hot Wheels Mario Kart vehicles and playsets in partnership with Nintendo. Mattel will also continue to partner with Disney Pixar for CARS, celebrating the brand’s 15th anniversary. Finally, die-cast category pioneer Matchbox will be relaunched globally with a revitalized product line and "Drive Your Adventure" brand campaign.

Action Figures, Building Sets, Games, and Other

Mattel’s Action Figures category will continue to collaborate with key licensor partners, such as Disney, NBCUniversal, WWE, and Microsoft, to bring innovative products to the global marketplace. Key 2021 product lines based on entertainment franchises will include NBCUniversal’s Minions, with a theatrical release scheduled for July 2021 and the relaunch of Masters of the Universe. Masters of the Universe products will be bolstered by two Netflix animated shows premiering in 2021 and global brand support appealing to both new and existing fans. Mattel also expects continued franchise support of NBCUniversal’s Jurassic World, Microsoft’s Minecraft, and Disney Pixar properties to continue throughout the year.

In the Building Sets category, MEGA provides innovative building play experiences, authentic details, and accessible value for fans and families. In 2021, parents of preschoolers can discover how BAG+1=FUN with the MEGA Bloks First Builders segment, featuring building sets that enhance playtime beyond the classic Big Building Bag. MEGA will also partner with three of Mattel’s iconic franchises to introduce Hot Wheels fans of all ages to building sets, invite more Barbie fans to experience building play and expand Masters of the Universe fans' building sets collection throughout 2021. Fans of the Pokemon and Halo franchises can continue to build and collect with MEGA in 2021.

Mattel’s Games category consists of some of the most beloved Games IP in the world including UNO, Pictionary, Scrabble, Skip-Bo, Blokus and many others. In 2021, UNO will be celebrating its 50th anniversary with a line of 50th anniversary products and robust partnerships across pop culture. Mattel will extend and refresh many of its key brands including Scrabble, and will continue to innovate by bringing new games to market.

The Mattel Plush category debuted in 2020 with Star Wars: The Child from the hit Disney+ series The Mandalorian, and will collaborate with partners Disney’s Lucasfilm, Disney Pixar, Sanrio (Hello Kitty), and NBCUniversal. In 2021, Mattel's Plush portfolio will grow to include some of the most iconic brands in the category, including Disney’s Marvel and Microsoft’s Minecraft.

5

International Segment

Products marketed by the International segment are generally the same as those developed and marketed by the North America segment, although some are developed or adapted for particular international markets. Mattel’s products are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence. No individual country within the International segment exceeded 6% of worldwide consolidated net sales during 2020.

American Girl Segment

The American Girl segment is a direct marketer, retailer, and children’s publisher dedicated to its mission to help build girls of strong character. American Girl is best known for its line of historical and contemporary characters that feature 18” dolls, books, and accessories that inspire girls to face the world with courage, resilience, and kindness. The contemporary Truly Me and Create Your Own lines encourage girls to express their imaginations and creativity by choosing a doll that looks like them or custom-creating one that’s completely unique from over 2.4 million options. Bitty Baby introduces younger girls to nurturing play until they are ready for WellieWishers, a sweet group of girls who focus on empathy and being a good friend. American Girl also publishes best-selling fiction and non-fiction books, as well as an array of popular digital content. The American Girl segment sells products directly to consumers via its catalog, website, in its proprietary retail stores in the U.S., at select retailers nationwide, and at specialty boutiques and franchise stores in Canada.

In January 2021, American Girl introduced its newest Girl of the Year, Kira Bailey, whose story focuses on wildlife conservation and climate challenges. Throughout 2021, American Girl will celebrate its 35th anniversary through new products, programs, partnerships, and experiences that help girls grow up with confidence and character.

Competition and Industry Background

Mattel is a worldwide leader in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of toys, games, and other products related to play, learning, and development. Competition in the toy industry is based primarily on quality, play value, brands, and price. Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that include, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, dolls, vehicles, action figures, construction toys, youth electronics, hand-held and other games, puzzles, plush, educational toys, technology-related products, media-driven products, and fashion-related toys. The North America segment competes with several large toy companies, including Hasbro, JAKKS Pacific, Jazwares, Just Play Products, LEGO, MGA Entertainment, Melissa & Doug, Spin Master, VTech, many smaller toy companies, and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. The International segment competes with global toy companies including Hasbro, JAKKS Pacific, Just Play Products, LEGO, MGA Entertainment, Playmobil, Ravensburger, Simba, Spin Master, VTech, other national and regional toy companies, and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. Foreign regions may include competitors that are strong in a particular toy line or geographical area but do not compete with Mattel or other international toy companies worldwide. The American Girl segment competes with companies that manufacture dolls and accessories, and with children’s book publishers and retailers. 

Competition among the above companies is intensifying due to trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products and an increasing use of more sophisticated technology among consumers. As a result of children outgrowing toys at younger ages, Mattel competes with companies that sell non-toy products, such as electronic consumer products, video games, as well as content and other entertainment companies. Competition continues to be heavily influenced by the fact that a small number of retailers account for a large portion of all toy sales, allocate the shelf space from which toys are viewed, and have direct contact with parents and children through in-store and online purchases. Such retailers can and do promote their own private-label toys, facilitate the sale of competitors’ toys, showcase toys online based on proprietary algorithms, and allocate shelf space to one type of toy over another. Online distributors are able to promote a wide variety of toys and represent a wide variety of toy manufacturers.

6

Seasonality

Mattel’s business is highly seasonal, with consumers making a large percentage of all toy purchases during the traditional holiday season. A significant portion of Mattel’s customers’ purchasing occurs in the third and fourth quarters of Mattel’s fiscal year in anticipation of holiday buying. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of less popular toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers have also been attempting to manage their inventories more tightly in recent years, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase the risk that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times or that Mattel’s own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. Additionally, as retailers manage their inventories, Mattel experiences cyclical ordering patterns for products and product lines that may cause its sales to vary significantly from period to period.

In anticipation of retail sales during the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. Seasonal shipping patterns result in significant peaks in the third and fourth quarters in the respective levels of inventories and accounts receivable, which result in seasonal working capital financing requirements. See Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt."

Sales

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including omnichannel retailers, discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets, and, to a limited extent, wholesalers. Mattel also operates small retail outlets at certain corporate offices as a service to its employees and as an outlet for its products. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence. Mattel also has retail outlets in Latin America that serve as outlets for its products. American Girl products and its children's publications are sold directly to consumers and select retailers in North America. Mattel has retail space in Chicago, Illinois; Los Angeles, California; and New York, New York for its flagship American Girl stores, and in 10 other cities across the United States for its American Girl outlet and boutique stores, each of which features children’s products from the American Girl segment. Additionally, Mattel sells certain of its products online through websites of one or more of its subsidiaries.

During 2020, Mattel’s three largest customers (Walmart at $1.07 billion, Target at $0.62 billion, and Amazon at $0.47 billion) accounted for approximately 47% of worldwide consolidated net sales. During 2019, Mattel's two largest customers (Walmart at $1.01 billion and Target at $0.44 billion) accounted for approximately 32% of worldwide consolidated net sales. Within countries in the International segment, there is also a concentration of sales to certain large customers that do not operate in the U.S., none of which exceeded 10% of worldwide consolidated net sales. The customers and the degree of concentration vary depending upon the region or nation. See Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information."

Licenses and Distribution Agreements

Mattel has license agreements with third parties that permit Mattel to utilize the trademark, characters, or inventions of the licensor in products that Mattel sells. A number of these licenses relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations.

Mattel has entered into agreements to license entertainment properties, including among others, Disney Enterprises (including Star Wars, Pixar (including CARS and Toy Story) and certain other Disney films and television properties), NBCUniversal (including Fast and Furious, Jurassic World, Minions, and Spirit), Viacom International relating to its Nickelodeon properties (including Blaze and the Monster Machines), Warner Bros. (including Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, and Justice League), Microsoft (including Halo and Minecraft), WWE, and Sanrio. 

Royalty expense for 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $158.5 million, $220.2 million, and $224.0 million, respectively. See Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Commitments" and Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies."

Mattel licenses a number of its trademarks and other property rights to others for use in connection with the sale of their products. Mattel also distributes some third-party finished products that are independently designed and manufactured.

7

Trademarks, Copyrights, and Patents

Most of Mattel’s products are sold under trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, and some of these products incorporate devices or designs for which patent protection has been, or is being, pursued. Trademarks, copyrights, and patents are significant assets of Mattel in that they provide product recognition, acceptance, and exclusive rights to Mattel's innovations around the world.

Mattel customarily seeks trademark, copyright, and/or patent protection covering its products, and it owns or has applications pending or registrations for U.S. and foreign trademarks, copyrights, and patents covering many of its products. Although a number of these trademarks, copyrights, and patents relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations, Mattel does not believe it is dependent on a single trademark, copyright, or patent. Mattel believes its rights to these properties are adequately protected, but there can be no assurance that its rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged.

Manufacturing and Materials

Mattel manufactures toy products for all segments in both company-owned facilities and through third-party manufacturers. Products are also purchased from unrelated entities that design, develop, and manufacture those products. To provide greater flexibility in the manufacture and delivery of its products, and as part of a continuing effort to reduce manufacturing costs, Mattel has concentrated production of most of its core products in company-owned facilities and generally uses third-party manufacturers for the production of non-core products.

Mattel’s principal manufacturing facilities are located in Canada, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, and Thailand. In conjunction with Mattel's cost savings programs, Mattel discontinued production in 2019 at three plants located in China, Indonesia, and Mexico. In addition to the discontinued production at the three plants, Mattel will discontinue production at its plant located in Canada in 2021. To help avoid disruption of its product supply due to political instability, civil unrest, economic instability, changes in government policies or regulations, natural and manmade disasters, and other risks, Mattel produces its products in multiple facilities across multiple countries. Mattel believes that the existing production capacity at its own and its third-party manufacturers’ facilities is sufficient to handle expected volume in the foreseeable future.

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in a lack of product availability or excess inventory in a particular product line. 

The majority of Mattel’s raw materials are available from numerous suppliers but may be subject to fluctuations in price. See Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors."

Advertising and Marketing

Mattel supports its product lines with extensive advertising and consumer promotions. Advertising takes place at varying levels throughout the year and peaks during the traditional holiday season. Advertising includes television and radio commercials, social media, and magazine, newspaper, and internet advertisements. Promotions include in-store displays, sweepstakes, merchandising materials, major events focusing on products, and tie-ins with various consumer products companies.

During 2020, 2019, and 2018, Mattel incurred advertising and promotion expenses of $516.8 million (11.3% of net sales), $551.5 million (12.2% of net sales), and $524.3 million (11.6% of net sales), respectively.

Financial Instruments

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to foreign exchange risk by monitoring its foreign currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.

8

For additional information regarding foreign currency contracts, see Part II, Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Part II, Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Derivative Instruments."

Government Regulations

Mattel’s products sold in the U.S. are subject to the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, and may also be subject to the requirements of the Flammable Fabrics Act or the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act and the regulations promulgated pursuant to such statutes. These statutes and the related regulations ban from the market consumer products that fail to comply with applicable product safety laws, regulations, and standards. The Consumer Product Safety Commission may require the recall, repurchase, replacement, or repair of any such banned products or products that otherwise create a substantial risk of injury and may seek penalties for regulatory noncompliance under certain circumstances. Similar laws exist in some U.S. states. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these federal and state laws and regulations.

Mattel’s products sold worldwide are subject to the provisions of similar laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, including the European Union ("EU") and Canada. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Mattel maintains a quality control program to help ensure compliance with applicable product safety requirements. Nonetheless, Mattel has experienced, and may in the future experience, issues in products that result in recalls, withdrawals, or replacements of products. A product recall could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s results of operations and financial condition, depending on the product affected by the recall and the extent of the recall efforts required. A product recall could also negatively affect Mattel’s reputation and the sales of other Mattel products. See Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors."

Mattel’s advertising is subject to the Federal Trade Commission Act, The Children’s Television Act of 1990, the rules and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission, as well as laws of certain countries that regulate advertising and advertising to children. In addition, Mattel’s web-based products and services and other online and digital communications activity are or may be subject to U.S. and foreign privacy-related regulations, including the U.S. Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 and the EU General Data Protection Regulation and related national regulations. Privacy-related laws also exist in some U.S. states, including the recently enacted California Consumer Protection Act. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Mattel’s worldwide operations are subject to the requirements of various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where those operations are located. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations. Mattel’s operations are from time to time the subject of investigations, conferences, discussions, and negotiations with various federal, state, and local environmental agencies within and outside the U.S. with respect to the discharge or cleanup of hazardous waste. Mattel is not aware of any material cleanup liabilities.

Mattel is subject to various other federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations applicable to its business. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Human Capital

Mattel is a leading global toy company and owner of one of the strongest catalogs of children’s and family entertainment franchises in the world. Recruiting, developing, and motivating a talented global workforce is key to Mattel’s long-term growth and success. Through Mattel’s focus on employee engagement, diversity and inclusion, training and development, and health and safety, Mattel creates a supportive and rewarding environment where employees are encouraged to explore, innovate, grow, and lead.

As of December 31, 2020, Mattel had approximately 32,100 employees (including temporary and seasonal employees) working in over 35 countries worldwide to create innovative products and experiences that inspire, entertain, and develop children through play, with approximately 27,600 employees (86% of the total workforce) located outside the U.S. Mattel has a significant global manufacturing labor workforce of approximately 22,800 employees. The remaining workforce focuses on the design, marketing, sales, finance, and other aspects of Mattel’s business.

9

Mattel’s purpose-driven culture reflects how Mattel works and manages its global workforce:

•We collaborate: Being a part of Mattel means being part of one team with shared values and common goals where every person counts.

•We innovate: At Mattel, we always aim to find new and better ways to create innovative products and experiences across the organization.

•We execute: We are a performance-driven company that empowers our people to strive for excellence and best-in-class outcomes.

Employee Engagement

Mattel is committed to collecting regular feedback and to ensuring all voices are heard. Mattel measures employee engagement on an ongoing basis as it believes an engaged workforce leads to a more innovative, productive, and profitable company. In addition, Mattel's annual global engagement survey, which generally measures employee job satisfaction, is used to improve the employee experience and to strengthen our workplace culture.

Diversity and Inclusion

Mattel is at its best when every member of its team feels respected, included and heard – when everyone can show up as themselves and do their best work every day. Mattel values and shares a wide range of ideas and voices that evolve and broaden its perspectives with a reach that extends into all its brands, partners, and suppliers.

An integral component towards fostering an inclusive culture at Mattel are its Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), created and led by employees to bring together members and allies of underrepresented identities across the organization. The ERGs organize company-wide learning opportunities, cultural celebrations, and community outreach, elevate important conversations, and collect critical feedback.

Mattel has been repeatedly recognized for these efforts and for its commitment to diversity and inclusion, including being recognized by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation as one of the country’s top places to work for LGBTQ+ equality. For the second consecutive year, Mattel received a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index, a leading benchmarking survey and report measuring corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ+ workplace equality.

In 2020, Mattel announced the following global diversity and inclusion goals:

1.Achieve 100% pay equity for all employees performing similar work globally.

2.Increase female representation at all levels of the organization.

3.Increase minority representation at all levels of the organization.

Training and Development

Continuously developing skills and capabilities for the future is essential to transforming Mattel into an IP-driven, high performing toy company. Additionally, offering the opportunity for employees to continuously learn and grow their careers at Mattel is a key driver of its employee engagement strategy. In 2020, employees at all levels around the globe participated in almost 600,000 hours of learning content across professional, management development, and technical training. This included both online and instructor-led training.

Health and Safety

Mattel is committed to providing a safe and ethical working environment for all of its employees, including the factories where Mattel products are made. Mattel has led the way in formalizing this principle into action. For example, in 1997, Mattel became one of the first companies to create standards that guide its efforts to manufacture responsibly. Today, these standards are known as Mattel’s Responsible Supply Chain Commitment, and they set forth ethical and environmental expectations for Mattel’s supply chain partners.

Over the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mattel's top priority has been to protect the health and safety of its employees while at the same time mitigating the disruption to its business. Mattel has implemented enhanced protocols to provide a safe and sanitary working environment for employees. In late 2019 and early 2020, Mattel successfully transitioned to a remote work structure for many of its employees. In addition, Mattel has adopted rigorous health and safety measures to safeguard employees at its manufacturing plants and distribution centers.

10

Available Information 

Mattel files its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

Mattel’s internet website address is http://corporate.mattel.com. Mattel makes available on its internet website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.