Item 1A.  

Risk Factors  

The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Risks Related to the Pending Sale of our Connect Business 

Our pending sale of the Global Connect business to affiliates of Advent International Corporation is subject to conditions, including certain conditions that may not be satisfied or completed on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to complete the transaction with Advent could have a material and adverse effect on us. Even if completed, the sale of Global Connect may not achieve the intended benefits. 

On October 31, 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell our Global Connect business to affiliates of Advent International Corporation (the “Proposed Connect Transaction”). The Proposed Connect Transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions; and the Proposed Connect Transaction is expected to close in the next 90 days. We and Advent may be unable to satisfy such conditions to the closing of the Proposed Connect Transaction in a timely manner or at all and, accordingly, the Proposed Connect Transaction may be delayed or may not be completed. Failure to complete the Proposed Connect Transaction could have a material and adverse effect on us, including by delaying our strategic and other objectives relating to the separation of the Global Connect business and adversely affecting our plans to use the proceeds from the Proposed Connect Transaction to reduce debt. Even if the Proposed Connect Transaction is consummated, we may not realize some or all of the expected benefits. For example, we may be unable to utilize the proceeds from the Proposed Connect Transaction as anticipated or capture the value we expect from our plans to reduce debt. 

Whether or not the Proposed Connect Transaction is completed, the announcement and pendency of the Proposed Connect Transaction may be disruptive to our businesses (including our Global Connect business) and may adversely affect our existing relationships with current and prospective employees and business partners. Uncertainties related to the Proposed Connect Transaction may also impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel and could divert the attention of our management and other employees from its day-to-day business and operations in preparation for and during the Proposed Connect Transaction. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, the business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects of our businesses would be adversely affected. This may in turn adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and the trading price of our ordinary shares if the Proposed Connect Transaction is not completed. 

We have and could be subject to litigation related to the Proposed Connect Transaction. 

 We have been and could be subject to time-consuming and costly litigation related to the Proposed Connect Transaction. For example, as previously disclosed in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 1, 2021, five lawsuits were filed relating to the Transaction, including one purported class action lawsuit, by purported Nielsen shareholders against Nielsen and the members of our Board of Directors. The lawsuits generally alleged that the proxy statement filed by Nielsen in connection with the Transaction misrepresented and/or omitted certain purportedly material information and asserted violations of Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and the rules promulgated thereunder or negligent and fraudulent misrepresentation and concealment in violation of New York common law and breach of duty of disclosure under the laws of England and Wales. In exchange for certain supplemental disclosures that Nielsen voluntarily made in its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2021, plaintiffs in each of the lawsuits agreed to voluntarily dismiss their actions in their entirety, with prejudice as to the named plaintiffs only and without prejudice to any other members of any putative class. We have and may continue to incur additional costs in connection with the defense or settlement of any shareholder litigation in connection with the Transaction, which may adversely affect our ability to complete the Transaction and require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could result in the distraction of management from ongoing business operations and refraining from pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. 

19 

If the Proposed Connect Transaction is completed, Nielsen will be a smaller, less diversified company than as it exists today. 

The Proposed Connect Transaction will result in Nielsen being a smaller, less diversified company with more limited businesses concentrated in its areas of focus. For example, following the Proposed Connect Transaction, Nielsen will be significantly more reliant on our remaining business segments. As a result, we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The diversification of revenues, costs and cash flows will diminish as a result of the Proposed Connect Transaction, such that Nielsen’s results of operations, cash flows, working capital, effective tax rate and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility and its ability to fund capital expenditures, investments and service debt may be diminished. If the Proposed Connect Transaction is completed, we will incur ongoing costs and retain certain legal claims that were previous allocated to the Global Connect business. Those costs may exceed our estimate or could diminish the benefits we expect to realize from the Proposed Connect Transaction. 

If the Proposed Connect Transaction is completed, Nielsen may need to restructure its processes, systems and operation and/or renegotiate certain contracts. 

A number of employees, processes, systems and operations support both the Media and Connect businesses, and under the terms of the sale to Advent, many of these will remain Connect assets and no longer be available to support the Media business. Accordingly, Media has had to hire some new employees, as well as recreate and/or build new processes, systems and operations, and some of these may, despite our thorough planning, not be sufficient to support the Media business. In addition, some of the transitional services which Media will continue to purchase from Connect after the sale will ultimately need to be re-cast as long term supply arrangements or will need to be purchased from other third parties. Lastly, certain customer contracts include both the Connect and Media businesses, and in separating the contracts as a result of the sale of Connect, Media may need to renegotiate new agreements with certain customers, which could be on more or less favorable terms and conditions, or in some instances customers may alter or even cease purchasing services from Media. 

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry 

We may be unable to adapt to significant technological changes, which could adversely affect our business. 

We operate in businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. Some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly. We have been and will be required to adapt to changing technologies and industry standards, either by developing and marketing new services investing in new services or by enhancing our existing services to meet client demand. 

Moreover, accelerating technology turn-over in businesses, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new regulatory and industry standards could render existing services technologically or commercially obsolete. Our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our existing services in response to changing client, regulatory and industry demands. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. New services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. 

Traditional methods of television viewing continue to change as a result of fragmentation of channels and digital and other new television and video technologies; devices such as video-on-demand, digital video recorders, game consoles, tablets, other mobile devices; and the increasing prevalence of alternative distribution systems, such as Internet viewing/OTT (“over-the-top”) delivery. In addition, consumption of consumer packaged goods is growing in new and different channels such as discount stores and e-commerce. Traditional methods of shopping are evolving and the emergence and growth of Omni-Channel ecommerce as well as direct to consumer continues to grow. This fragmentation requires us to develop new methodologies to procure, cleanse, enrich, and connect data at the individual level. 

In addition, certain companies are utilizing sophisticated forms encryption and other techniques to protect their consumer's privacy. This requires us to work with the wall gardens to find mutually acceptable approaches to measurement that protect consumer's privacy and need the walled gardens to implement these approaches. If we are unable to partner with these companies, our measurement of the walled gardens could be adversely affected. 

If we are unable to continue to successfully adapt our media and consumer measurement systems to new viewing and consumption habits, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. 

20 

Consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate could put pressure on the pricing of our services, thereby leading to decreased earnings and cash flows.  

Consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate could reduce aggregate demand for our services in the future and could limit the amounts we earn for our services. When companies merge, the services they previously purchased separately are often purchased by the combined entity in the aggregate in a lesser quantity than before, leading to volume and price compression and loss of revenue. While we are attempting to mitigate the revenue impact of any consolidation by expanding our range of services, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so as industry consolidation continues, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. 

Client procurement strategies could put additional pressure on the pricing of our services, thereby leading to decreased earnings and cash flows.  

Certain of our clients may seek price concessions from us in the regular course of negotiations similar to any other Commercial relationship. Although this could put pressure on the pricing of our services, which could in turn limit the amounts we earn, we work very creatively to underscore the value proposition inherent in our offerings and have a strong track record of protecting our cost/value relationship. While we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any pricing pressure through effective negotiations and by providing services to individual businesses within particular groups, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. 

Adverse economic conditions, a reduction in client spending particularly in the consumer packaged goods and retailing industries, or a delay in client payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.  

Adverse economic conditions could affect markets both in the U.S. and internationally, impacting the demand for our customers’ products and services. Those reduced demands could adversely affect the ability of some of our customers to meet their current obligations to us, hinder their ability to incur new obligations until the economy and their businesses strengthen or cause them to reduce or cease using our services. The inability of our customers to pay us for our services and/or decisions by current or future customers to forego or defer purchases may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability and cash flows and may present risks for an extended period of time. We cannot predict the impact of economic slowdowns on our future financial performance. 

To the extent that the businesses we service, especially our clients in the media, entertainment, telecommunications, consumer packaged goods and technology industries, are subject to the financial pressures of, for example, increased costs or reduced demand for their products, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. 

We expect that revenues generated from our measurement and analytical services will continue to represent a substantial portion of our overall revenue for the foreseeable future. During challenging economic times, clients, typically advertisers, within our Media segment may reduce their discretionary advertising expenditures and may be less likely to purchase our analytical services, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. 

The success of our business depends on our ability to recruit sample participants to participate in our research samples.  

Our business uses scanners and surveys to gather consumer data from sample households as well as meters (e.g., Set Meters, People Meters, Active/Passive Meters, PPM’s) and other technologies to gather television and audio audience measurement data from sample households. It is increasingly difficult and costly to obtain consent from households to participate in the surveys, and increased focus by consumers on privacy could result in a greater reluctance to participate in research, which could impact our continued ability to recruit participants. Further, it is increasingly difficult and costly to ensure that the selected sample of households mirrors the behaviors and characteristics of the entire population and covers all of the demographic segments requested by our clients. The COVID-19 pandemic, political changes and trends such as populism, economic nationalism, immigration and sentiment towards multinational companies have made recruiting a sample that mirrors the entire population more difficult. In addition, if the 2020 U.S. Census is not reliable due to underfunding, under participation, new technologies being used, or otherwise, the data we rely on for our panels and statistical breakdowns in the U.S. may not be accurate. Additionally, as consumers adopt modes of telecommunication other than traditional telephone service, such as mobile, cable and internet calling, it may become more difficult for our services to reach and recruit participants for consumer purchasing and audience measurement services. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to recruit appropriate participants, maintain the sample sizes and representation in our panels, maintain adequate participation levels or properly model the sample data, our clients may lose confidence in our ratings services and we could lose the support of the relevant industry groups. If this were to happen, our consumer purchasing and audience measurement services may be materially and adversely affected. 

21 

Criticism of our audience measurement service by various industry groups and market segments could adversely affect our business.  

Due to the high-profile nature of our services in the media, internet and entertainment information industries, we could become the target of criticism in the media and in other venues by various industry groups and market segments. We strive to be fair, transparent and impartial in the production of audience measurement services, and the quality of our U.S. ratings services is voluntarily subject to review and accreditation by the Media Rating Council, a voluntary trade organization whose members include many of our key client constituencies. However, criticism of our business by special interests, and by clients with competing and often conflicting demands on our measurement service, could result in government regulation. While we believe that government regulation is unnecessary, no assurance can be given that legislation will not be enacted in the future that would subject our business to regulation, which could adversely affect our business. 

A loss or decrease in business of one or more of our largest clients could adversely impact our results of operations.  

Our top ten clients collectively accounted for approximately 20% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. We cannot assure you that any of our largest clients will continue to use our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future but we work very hard to enter into multiyear, comprehensive Multi Service Agreements and we stagger them across the calendar, by duration, to minimize risk of any material risk in a given calendar year. A loss or decrease in business of one or more of our largest clients, if not replaced by a new client or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We may be unable to realize our new business strategy of driving growth by leveraging a single media platform across a global digital-first footprint.

This is a transformative time for Nielsen. We have redesigned our products, our business platform, and our operating model. We are now fully aligned around three essential solutions that are designed to drive growth by leveraging a single media platform across a global digital-first footprint. We cannot assure you that our new business strategy will be successful in accomplishing our objectives. The failure to achieve the goal of driving growth could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

We rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our worldwide information technology and operations functions. A failure to provide these functions in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our business.  

We are dependent upon third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology and operations functions worldwide. The success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions in a timely and satisfactory manner. If we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. 

Design defects, errors, failures or delays associated with our products or services, could negatively impact our business.  

Despite testing, software, products and services that we develop, license or distribute may contain errors or defects when first released or when major new updates or enhancements are released that cause the product or service to operate incorrectly or less effectively. Many of our products and services also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. In addition, our data integrity and quality relies on human-led, manual data collection and management processes which may be vulnerable due to human error and complexity of systems, resulting in the need for increased field support to ensure sample representation and prevent unauthorized or excessive access. We may also experience delays while developing and introducing new products and services for various reasons, such as difficulties in licensing data inputs or adapting to particular operating environments. Defects, errors or delays in our products or services that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection or delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or regulatory actions, or increases in service and support costs. We may also need to expend significant capital resources to eliminate or work around defects, errors, failures or delays. In each of these ways, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. 

If our clients experience financial distress, or seek to change or delay payment terms, it could negatively affect our own financial position and results.  

We have a large and diverse client and partner base and, at any given time, one or more of our clients or partners may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and if these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments  

22 

of intangible assets, credit facility covenant violations and reduced liquidity. That being said we have an excellent track record of payment from our clients due to the strict adherence of our payment term and data suspension policies. Our clients, in many situations, require our data to inform their own billings, collections and reconciliations and therefore they prioritize our payment out of their own self-interest. 

We rely, in part, on acquisitions, joint ventures and other alliances to grow our business and expand our access to technology. If we are unable to complete or integrate acquisitions into our existing operations or successfully develop and maintain joint ventures and other alliances, our growth may be adversely impacted. In addition, the acquisition, integration or divestiture of businesses by us may not produce the expected financial or operating results.  

We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our Company. Such transactions present significant challenges and risks. 

●  

The market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. 

●  

If we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions at all or within the anticipated time frame or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

●  

If such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. For instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, we may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business, we may fail to efficiently combine our business with the business of the acquired company in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized or such transactions may divert management’s focus from base strategies and objectives. 

●  

Acquisitions outside of the U.S. increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and compliance with foreign laws and regulations. 

●  

The anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized fully. As a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

●  

Despite our past experience, opportunities to grow our business through acquisitions, joint ventures and other alliances may not be available to us in the future. In addition, as a result of our proposed separation of Nielsen Global Connect and the resources and management attention required in connection therewith, there may be more limited resources available for strategic transactions and management’s attention is likely to be diverted away from sourcing and developing potential acquisitions and joint venture opportunities, resulting in decreased growth. 

We have suffered losses due to goodwill and indefinite-lived asset impairment charges in the past and could do so in the future.  

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). In addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The closing of the Proposed Connect Transaction will lead to an interim impairment assessment. As of December 31, 2020, we had goodwill and intangible assets of $10,510 million. Any downward revisions in the fair value of our reporting units or our intangible assets could result in impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets that could materially affect our financial performance. 

Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Financing  

Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial health.  

We have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2020, we had total indebtedness of $8,307 million. 

Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: 

●  

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 

●  

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, service development efforts, dividends, share repurchases and other general corporate purposes; 

●  

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 

●  

expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; 

23 

●  

restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; 

●  

limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, service development, debt service requirements, dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; 

●  

limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; 

●  

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and 

●  

potentially limit our ability to service future dividends and/or stock repurchases due to covenant restrictions. 

In addition, the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our secured credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to engage in activities that may be in our best interests, including by limiting the ability to make acquisitions, pay dividends or repurchase shares. Moreover, the failure to comply with any of those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements – “Long Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,” for a description of our debt arrangements and related covenants. 

Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. 

We require a significant amount of cash as well as continued access to the capital markets to service our indebtedness, fund capital expenditures and meet our other liquidity needs. Our ability to generate cash and our access to the capital markets depend on many factors beyond our control.  

Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness (both interest and principal) and to fund planned capital expenditures and other liquidity needs will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future and our ability to refinance our indebtedness. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 

We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements – “Long-term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements,” for a description of our debt arrangements and related maturities. 

A substantial portion of our indebtedness is at variable rates, and we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates.  

Our cash interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $358 million, $386 million and $380 million, respectively. On December 31, 2020, we had $4,971 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities of which $1,300 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. A one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $37 million ($50 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). We periodically review our fixed/floating debt mix, and the volume, rates and duration of our interest rate hedging portfolio are subject to changes, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. Further, on November 30, 2020 the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (“ICE”) announced its plan to extend the date that most USD-LIBOR values would cease being computed to June 30, 2023. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”) and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) have identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its preferred alternative rate for USD-LIBOR in debt, derivatives, and other financial contracts. Even if financial instruments are transitioned to alternative benchmarks, such as SOFR, successfully, the new benchmarks are likely to differ from LIBOR, and our interest expense associated with our outstanding indebtedness or any future indebtedness we incur may increase. Further, transitioning to an alternative benchmark rate, such as SOFR, may result in us incurring significant expense and legal risks, as renegotiation and changes to documentation may be required in effecting the transition. Any alternative benchmark rate may be calculated differently than LIBOR and may increase the interest expense associated with our existing or future indebtedness. 

24 

Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Privacy  

We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information.  

In the ordinary course of our business, we rely extensively on our people, technology and business operations as well as trusted strategic partners and vendors to provide us with access to data and technology as well as related professional services. We use several third-party service providers, including cloud providers, to access, store, transmit and process sensitive data. We receive, store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data that may contain personal information of our customers, employees, consumers and suppliers or sensitive client data entrusted to us. Our sensitive data may include our or a client’s intellectual property, financial information and business operations data. 

An actual or perceived security or privacy breach may affect us in many ways, including: 

•  

risk of loss of Nielsen and/or client proprietary data or data protected by law, statute or regulation; 

•  

loss of control of how Nielsen and/or client proprietary data or data protected by law, statute or regulation is re-purposed, shared or disseminated; 

•  

expose us to potential litigation; 

•  

expose us to liability; 

•  

harm our reputation; 

•  

cause loss of confidence in security and accuracy of products; 

•  

deter customers from using our products or services; 

•  

deter retailers from sharing their sales data; 

•  

make it more difficult and expensive to effectively recruit panelists and survey respondents; 

•  

cause loss of investor confidence; 

•  

result in official sanctions or statutory penalties; and 

•  

cause significant increases in cyber security costs. 

Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. 

Owing to new and emerging technology risks, hackers or unauthorized users who successfully breach our network security, could misappropriate or misuse our proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. Given the relatively fast pace of changes in new and emerging technology risks, we may not be able to effectively anticipate and/or respond in a timely manner to all foreseeable and/or unforeseeable cyber security risks and events, thereby resulting in a potentially significant loss of client and investor confidence. 

Notwithstanding our due diligence for new hires and employee training initiatives, we are at risk for employee malfeasance, inadvertent employee errors and other “insider risks” that may breach one or more of our information security provisions or policies. Our response in remediation of these data breaches or interruptions of service may require substantial commitments of resources and we may incur additional, unbudgeted operating and/or capital expenses, such as for specialized cyber security vendors as part of our response. 

Similar to other companies, we have been the subject of attempts at unauthorized access to our systems, however, none were material. We have taken and are taking reasonable steps to prevent future unauthorized access to our systems, including implementation of system security measures, information back-up and disaster recovery processes. However, these steps may not be effective and there can be no assurance that any such steps can be effective against all possible risks. 

25 

Our services involve the receipt, storage and transmission of proprietary information. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained, our services may be perceived as not being secure and regulators, panelists and survey respondents may hold us liable for disclosure of personal data, and clients and venture partners may hold us liable or reduce their use of our services.  

We receive, store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data, including data that contain personal information about individuals. Similar to other companies, Nielsen is a target of cyber attacks, however, none were material. We have continued to invest in tools, technology and people to safeguard the enterprise. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, regulatory fines and penalties, litigation and possible liability and our reputation could be damaged. It may also make it more difficult to recruit panelists and survey respondents. For example, hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our network security could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems and to respond to regulators’ inquiries. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or saboteurs in a timely manner, or at all. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target and, as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current and potential clients. In addition, we may be subject to investigation and fines by jurisdictions that have data protection laws. 

Data protection laws and self-regulatory codes may restrict our activities and increase our costs.  

Various statutes and rules regulate conduct in areas such as privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage and transfer of information both abroad and in the U.S. The definitions of “personally identifiable information” and “personal data” continue to evolve and broaden, and new laws and regulations are being enacted (for example, recently passed data protection laws in Brazil and California, U.S., and proposed laws in India and Indonesia), so that this area remains in a state of flux. Changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we may not offer certain types of services. In addition, some of our products and services are subject to self-regulatory programs relating to digital advertising. Compliance with these laws and self-regulatory codes may require us to make certain investments or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services or only offer such services after making necessary modifications. Failure to comply with these laws and self-regulatory codes may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, restrictions on further use of data and/or liability under contractual warranties. 

The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), took effect in May 2018 and imposed new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data of persons in the EU. Failure to meet the GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Many jurisdictions considering new data protection laws are looking to GDPR as a starting point. 

The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (“CCPA”) took effect on January 1, 2020, and imposed new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data of persons in California. Because Nielsen does not typically segregate products and services on a state-by-state basis, Nielsen must generally adopt the requirements of CCPA across its US business operations. Failure to meet CCPA requirements could result in penalties of up to $7,500 per violation. CCPA also provides individuals with a limited private right of action in the case of certain breaches of personal data. 

The proposed EU “ePrivacy” Regulation, if adopted, is expected to have potentially significant impacts for the online/mobile advertising industry as a whole. Nielsen is continuing to monitor the development of the ePrivacy Regulation and industry response and will determine whether to take further action, as needed, following its final adoption. Nielsen is participating in an industry-wide transparency and consent framework mechanism that facilitates users providing and companies passing consent to the advertising supply chain to address GDPR and ePrivacy notice and consent requirements. 

We rely on third parties to provide or allow us to access certain data and services in connection with the provision of our current services. The loss or limitation of access to that data could harm our ability to provide our products and services. 

We rely on third parties to provide access to certain data and services for use in connection with the provision of our current services and our reliance on third-party data providers is growing. For example, both our Media and Connect segments enter into agreements with third parties to obtain data or facilitate the access to data from which we create products and services. 

In the digital measurement business, publishers, browsers and platforms are making changes, often citing the increased attention on consumer privacy, which may result in our inability to collect the data we need to create our services. This may impact our ability  

26 

to measure the Web and provide our clients with reporting at the rate of granularity that we do so today, in which case our business and/or potential growth may be affected adversely. We may need to modify or enter into additional agreements with third parties to continue to measure certain types of media. In the event we are unable to use such third party data and services, access the necessary data, or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties when necessary, our business and/or our potential growth could be adversely affected. In the event that such data and services are unavailable for our use or the cost of acquiring such data and services increases, our business could be adversely affected. 

Other suppliers of data may increase restrictions on our use of such data due to factors such as the increasing attention on consumer privacy, the increased rigor of privacy regulation or cybersecurity risk, failure to adhere to our quality control standards or otherwise satisfactorily perform services, increasing the price they charge us for this data or refusing altogether to license the data to us (in some cases because of exclusive agreements they may have entered into with our competitors). Supplier consolidation could put pressure on our cost structure. 

Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic and Other External Factors  

The COVID-19 pandemic has subjected our business, operations and financial condition to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, those discussed below: 

COVID-19 Risks Related to Operations 

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been a substantial curtailment of business activities in many countries around the world, which is affecting and may continue to affect our ability to conduct fieldwork, operate call centers, and provide other services that require or were conducted via face to face interactions. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic we pivoted to a work from home stance that remains in place for the vast majority of our global workforce, which is and may continue to affect overall business performance. The risk is particularly pronounced in the Connect business where our teams need to visit traditional stores to collect information where electronic data transmission is not possible or an in-person data collection method for our custom research studies, and where we need to conduct face to face consumer research interviews. With respect to the Media business, because our measurement services require Nielsen to interact with panelists in order to recruit new panelist households and install metering equipment for existing panelists, over time the pandemic, actions taken to protect employee health and related social distancing requirements and “stay at home” orders may adversely affect Nielsen’s audio and television ratings and measurement services. 

COVID-19 Risks Related to Third-Party Providers 

The COVID-19 pandemic has also caused operating challenges and discontinuity for some vendors, suppliers, partners and other third parties which has affected and may continue to affect their ability to provide us essential products or services. For example, if any of our third-party providers suffer from limited solvency because of the pandemic, it could negatively impact our operating model and our business. It is not possible to estimate the potential impact at this time. 

COVID-19 Risks Related to Demand for Products & Services 

The COVID-19 pandemic has had and could continue to have a negative impact on our business as clients cut back on services that are not already contracted, delay their spending, or declare bankruptcy in light of poor business performance due to the pandemic. If the pandemic is not contained or otherwise continues, it will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.  

It is possible that COVID-19 could exacerbate any of the other risks described in this 2020 Form 10-K as well.  

At this time, we cannot predict the full extent of the negative impact in the future that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. 

. 

27 

The presence of our Global Technology and Information Center in Florida, our data centers in high property value facilities such as in Hong Kong, as well as the global nature of our panels, heightens our exposure to climate-change related risks, including hurricanes, cyclones and tropical storms, which could disrupt our business.  

The technological data processing functions for certain of our U.S. operations are concentrated at our Global Technology and Information Center (“GTIC”) at a single location in Florida. Our geographic concentration in Florida heightens our exposure to a hurricane, tropical storm or other severe weather events specific to this region. The data centers in locations such as Hong Kong, also face high physical risks such as cyclones and sea level rise. These weather events could cause severe damage to our property and technology and could cause major disruptions to our operations, including our ability to produce and deliver ratings information. For example, a hurricane or other similar event could lead to business interruption and other adverse consequences such as penalty fees, business interruption claims, or lost business. While we continue to ensure identified physical risks to our facilities are addressed through the business continuity and our enterprise risk management plans (including ensuring that our GTIC is built in anticipation of severe weather events and we have insurance coverage), if we were to experience a catastrophic loss, we may exceed our policy limits and/or we may have difficulty obtaining similar insurance coverage in the future. As such, hurricanes, cyclones or tropical storms could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, our panels rely on field staff traveling to panelists’ homes for onboarding and troubleshooting; therefore, worsening or more frequent climate change-related weather events could disrupt the size and quality of our panels. With the increased occurrence of climate change-related natural disasters globally, such as droughts, record snowfalls, sea-level rise, heat waves and fires, we recognize the wide-ranging risks this poses to our business continuity in certain locations as well as on a global scale. 

Hardware and software failures, delays in the operations of our data gathering procedures, our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements may harm our business.  

Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and our data gathering procedures. A failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While many of our services have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have full backup facilities everywhere in the world to provide redundant network capacity in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities, or delays in our data gathering or panel maintenance operations due to weather events, including those related to climate change, other acts of nature, or public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and to our clients. In addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider. Such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver our services to our clients and could be costly to implement. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements and improvements, or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed, could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which we have offices) could adversely affect our services. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. 

Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings  

If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected.  

Our business relies on a combination of patented and patent-pending technologies, systems, processes, and methodologies; trademarks; copyrights; other proprietary rights; and contractual arrangements, including licenses, to establish and protect our technology and intellectual property. We believe our proprietary technologies and intellectual property rights are important to our continued success and our competitive position. Any impairment of any such intellectual property could adversely impact the results of our operations or financial condition. 

We rely on a combination of contractual and confidentiality provisions and procedures, licensing arrangements, and the intellectual property laws of the U.S. and other countries to protect our intellectual property, as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content, data and technology we license. These legal measures afford only limited protection and may not provide sufficient protection to prevent the infringement, misuse or misappropriation of our intellectual property. Although our employees, consultants, clients, and collaborators all enter into confidentiality agreements with us, our trade secrets, data and know-how could be subject to unauthorized use, misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure. 

28 

Our business success depends, in part, on: 

•  

obtaining patent protection for our technology and services; 

•  

enforcing and defending our patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property; 

•  

preserving our trade secrets and maintaining the security of our know-how and data; and 

•  

operating our business without infringing intellectual property rights held by third parties. 

Our ability to establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights against theft or infringement could be materially and adversely affected by insufficient and/or changing proprietary rights and intellectual property legal protections in some jurisdictions and markets. Intellectual property law in several foreign jurisdictions is subject to considerable uncertainty. Our pending patent and trademark applications may not be allowed in certain jurisdictions and inadequate intellectual property laws may limit our rights and ability to detect unauthorized uses or take appropriate, timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct, to protect or enforce our rights. Such limitations may allow competitors to design around our intellectual property rights, to independently develop non-infringing competing technologies, products, or services similar or identical to ours, thereby potentially eroding our competitive position, enabling competitors greater opportunity to capture market share, and consequently negatively impacting our revenues and operating results. The expiration of certain of our patents may also lead to increased competition. As such, our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights, provide significant competitive advantages, or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. 

The growing need for global data, along with increased competition and technological advances, puts increasing pressure on us to share our intellectual property for client applications with others. In this way, competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Third parties that license our intellectual property and proprietary rights may take actions or create incidents that may diminish the value of our rights, harm our business, reduce revenue, increase expenses, and/or harm our reputation.  

To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights to protect our confidential and proprietary information by engaging in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings that may be distracting to management, could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property rights, and we may not ultimately prevail.  

Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses, or be prevented from selling products or services, which may adversely impact our operating profits.  

We cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others in operating our business. In the ordinary course of business, third parties may claim, with or without merit, that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights and may engage in legal proceedings against us. In some jurisdictions, plaintiffs can also seek injunctive relief that may limit the operation of our business or prevent the marketing and selling of our services that allegedly infringe a plaintiff’s intellectual property rights. 

Certain agreements with suppliers or clients contain provisions where we indemnify, subject to certain limitations, the counterparty for damages suffered as a result of claims related to intellectual property infringement based on our data or technology. Infringement claims covered by such indemnity provisions could be expensive to litigate and may result in significant settlement payments. In certain businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and depending upon the outcome of any intellectual property dispute, we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on favorable terms or at all. 

Any such claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: 

•  

be expensive and time-consuming to defend; 

•  

result in our being required to pay possibly significant damages; 

•  

cause us to cease providing our products or services that allegedly incorporate a third party’s intellectual property; 

•  

require us to redesign or rebrand our services and; 

29 

•  

require us to enter into potentially costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, although royalty or licensing agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. 

Any of the above could have a negative impact on our operating results and could harm our financial condition and prospects. 

We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our business and technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.  

If we do not resolve these claims in advance of a trial, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in court. A claim of intellectual property infringement could compel us to enter into a license agreement with restrictive terms and/or significant fees, which may or may not be available under acceptable terms or at all, and an adverse judgment could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against development and/or sale of certain of our products or services. We may be required to implement costly redesigns to the affected product or services, or pay damages to satisfy contractual obligations to others. 

Inadvertent use of certain open source software could impose unanticipated limitations upon our ability to commercialize our products and services or subject our proprietary code to public disclosure if not properly managed.  

We use certain open source software in our technologies, most often as small components supporting a larger product or service and it is also contained in some third-party software that we license. We also contribute to the open source community in certain circumstances, which then may make it difficult or impossible to maintain proprietary rights in such contributions. There are many types of open source licenses, some of which are quite complex, and most have not been interpreted or adjudicated by U.S. or other courts. Although we do have an open source use policy and practice, inadvertent use of certain open source licenses could impose unanticipated limitations upon our ability to commercialize our products and services or subject our proprietary code to public disclosure if not properly managed. Remediation of such issues may involve licensing the software on less than unfavorable terms or require remedial actions including a need to re-engineer our products and services, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

We are currently subject to shareholder litigation, and may become subject to additional shareholder litigation, antitrust litigation or government investigations in the future, any of which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business.  

In the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, have been the subject of shareholder litigation, and we have been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and competition laws of certain jurisdictions. We have changed certain of our business practices to reduce the likelihood of future litigation. Although each of these material prior legal actions have been resolved, there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. We are subject to allegations, claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we are currently subject to securities litigation, which we discuss in greater detail below under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 17–Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The outcome of many of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any proceedings, inspections or investigations were to be determined adversely against us or result in legal actions, claims, regulatory proceedings, enforcement actions, or judgments, fines, or settlements involving a payment of material sums of money, or if injunctive relief were issued against us, we may be required to change the way we do business and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Even the successful defense of legal proceedings may cause us to incur substantial legal costs and may divert management’s attention and resources. 

Risks Relating to Governmental or Regulatory Change 

Future legislation, regulations, or policy changes under the new U.S. administration and Congress as well as other countries could have a material effect on our business and results of operations.  

Future legislation, regulatory changes or policy shifts under the new U.S. administration, could impact our business. Trade issues between the U.S. and several countries could continue and provide a changing and sometimes challenging landscape. Existing trade tensions with China and other countries could continue under the new Administration and provide challenges and marketplace uncertainty to Nielsen and Nielsen’s clients. Nielsen has been granted an exclusion from tariffs on certain products by the Office of the United States Trade Representative, but cannot guarantee the continuation of such exemptions or additional grants of exemptions based on future legislation, regulatory changes or policy shifts in the United States or abroad.  

30 

Other possible U.S. legislation and regulation that could have an impact on Nielsen includes comprehensive state and federal privacy legislation and regulation, artificial intelligence policy, government restrictions on manufacturers within Nielsen’s existing supply chain, and accuracy of the decennial Census count and the American Community Survey, which provides a touchstone for Nielsen’s demographics. 

The new Administration may implement new rules and regulations both emanating from the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) and the tax code generally. For example, during his campaign, President Biden indicated a desire to increase the corporate rate from 21% to 28%. It is still uncertain to what extent these changes could impact Nielsen.  

Abroad, France has passed a proposal to tax digital services. Its impact to Nielsen's services remains unclear. While France initially delayed its implementation until an agreement is reached among the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”), if an agreement is not made soon, France and other states could begin to implement the tax in their markets.  

Late 2020, the U.K. announced that they will require companies to report on Climate Change by 2025, becoming the first country to make the disclosures mandatory as investors and governments demand corporations curb their greenhouse gas emissions. This means a mandate to report the financial impacts of climate change on our business within the next four years, in addition to the greenhouse gas emissions the current regulation requires reporting on. Also, the new government in the U.S. is expected to move closer to requiring environmental, social and governance disclosures from companies.  

Market access issues for Nielsen may also arise in some international markets. Various countries are actively considering changes to the structure of their domestic media measurement regimes for both broadcast and digital services. This can take the form of proposed government audits and/or ownership. This activity also may include stringent regulatory policies on digital content and delivery. The success of such onerous proposals remains uncertain. 

Policy issues, such as trade, privacy, tax, and market access, will be risks that span the globe. At this time we cannot predict the scope or nature of these changes or assess what the overall effect of such potential changes could be on our results of operations or cash flows. 

Changes in tax laws and the continuing ability to apply the provisions of various international tax treaties may adversely affect our financial results and increase our tax expense.  

We operate in over 90 countries, and changes in tax laws, international tax treaties, regulations, related interpretations and tax accounting standards in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results, particularly our income tax expense, liabilities and cash flow. Our effective tax rate could also be affected by changes in our business (including acquisitions or dispositions), intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, and the relative amount of foreign earnings in jurisdictions with high statutory tax rates or where losses are incurred for which we are not able to realize tax benefits. 

Governments are resorting to more aggressive tax audit tactics and are increasingly considering changes to tax law regimes or policies as a means to cover budgetary shortfalls resulting from the current economic environment. We are subject to direct and indirect taxes in numerous jurisdictions and the amount of tax we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of tax laws, but tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment. Although we believe that we have complied with all applicable tax laws, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions and tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with some of our interpretations of applicable tax law. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits to determine the appropriateness of our tax provisions. However, our judgments may not be sustained on completion of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

Risks Related to Competition 

We face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.  

We are faced with a number of competitors worldwide in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors in our markets may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and other resources than we do and may in the future engage in aggressive pricing action to compete with us or develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. Although we believe we are currently able to compete effectively in each of the  

31 

various markets in which we participate, we may not be able to do so in the future or be capable of maintaining or further increasing our current market share. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 

Risks Related to Operating a Global Business 

Our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future. 

We continue to explore opportunities in major international markets around the world, including China, Russia, India and Brazil. International operations expose us to various additional risks, which could adversely affect our business, including: 

•  

costs of customizing services for clients outside of the U.S.; 

•  

reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 

•  

the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; 

•  

difficulties in managing international operations; 

•  

longer sales and payment cycles; 

•  

exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; 

•  

exposure to local economic conditions; 

•  

limitations on the repatriation of funds from foreign operations; 

•  

exposure to local political conditions, including adverse tax and other government policies and positions, civil unrest and seizure of assets by a foreign government; 

•  

the risks of an outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism in the jurisdictions in which we operate; 

•  

the risks of outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as Ebola, measles, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), H1N1 (swine) flu, Zika virus and COVID-19; and 

•  

the risk of maintaining subscribers because there has been no historical practice of using consumer packaged goods retail information or audience measurement information in the buying and selling of advertising time. 

Our international operations expose us to regulatory risks, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. 

We are subject to complex U.S., European and other regional and local laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws, anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, anti-bribery laws, anti-money laundering laws, and other financial crimes laws. Although we have implemented a compliance program that includes internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. Given our operations in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe, we face uncertainty surrounding the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union in January 2020, commonly referred to as “Brexit.” Despite the implementation of the EU-U.K. Trade and Cooperation Agreement beginning on January 1, 2021, it is still unclear how Brexit will ultimately impact relationships within the U.K. and between the U.K. and other countries on many aspects of fiscal policy, cross-border trade and international relations. It is likely that Brexit will cause increased regulatory and legal complexities and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including our relationships with existing and future clients, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. 

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial position.  

We operate globally, deriving approximately 41% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 in currencies other than U.S. dollars, with approximately 11% of revenues deriving in Euros. Our U.S. operations earn revenues and incur expenses primarily in U.S. dollars, while our European operations earn revenues and incur expenses primarily in Euros. Outside the U.S. and the Euro Zone, we generate revenues and expenses predominantly in local currencies. Because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the revenues and profits of these operations, as well as on the value of balance sheet items (including cash) not denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we are subject to currency transaction exposure in those instances where transactions are not conducted in the relevant local currency. In certain instances, we may not be able to freely convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars due to governmental limitations placed on such conversions. 

32 

Of our $610 million in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020, approximately $355 million was held in jurisdictions outside the U.S. We regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our U.S. indebtedness and related obligations. 

Risks Related to Human Capital Management 

Our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes could impact our business results.  

As we have in prior years, we continue to execute a number of significant business and organizational changes, including operating reorganizations, acquisition integration and divestitures to improve productivity and create efficiencies to support our growth strategies. We expect these types of changes, which may include many staffing adjustments as well as employee departures, to continue for the foreseeable future. Successfully managing these changes, including the identification, engagement and development and retention of key employees to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business, is critical to our success. This includes developing organization capabilities in specific markets, businesses and functions where there is increased demand for specific skills or experiences. Finally, our financial targets assume a consistent level of productivity improvement. If we are unable to deliver expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted. 

If we are unable to attract, retain and engage employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to expand our business.  

Our success and ability to grow is dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, retain and engage sufficient numbers of talented people, with the increasingly diverse skills needed to serve clients and expand our business, in many locations around the world. Competition for highly qualified, specialized technical, managerial, and particularly consulting personnel is intense. Changes to U.S. or other immigration policies that restrain the flow of professional talent may also inhibit our ability to staff our offices or projects. Further, as a result of our review of strategic alternatives, we may suffer increased attrition. Recruiting, training and retention costs and benefits place significant demands on our resources. The inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on us, including our ability to execute on growth initiatives as well as obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and partnerships and thus maintain or increase our revenues. 

Our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted by our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans.  

The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our plan expenses, plan assets and funding obligations. Changes in market interest rates, decreases in our pension trust assets or investment losses could increase our funding obligations, which would negatively impact our operations and financial condition. In addition we may be subject to potential pressure from pension regulators to accelerate contribution funding in light of the proposed separation of our Global Connect business.  

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

Item 2.  

Properties