Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Interest Rate Risk 

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities  

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $46.6 billion and $43.1 billion as of May 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our bank deposits are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide with high investment-grade credit ratings or financial institutions that meet investment-grade ratings criteria, which we believe mitigates credit risk and certain other risks. In addition, as of May 31, 2021, substantially all of our marketable securities were high quality, fixed-rate debt securities and had maturity dates within one year (a description of the types of marketable securities held as of May 31, 2021 and 2020 is included in Notes 3 and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” above). The market values of our fixed-rate marketable securities investments are adversely impacted as interest rates increase. Due in part to these factors, we may realize losses if we sell securities prior to their scheduled maturities that declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because we classify substantially all of our investments in debt securities as available-for-sale and record changes in their fair values to AOCL on our consolidated balance sheets, no gains or losses are recognized in our earnings due to market changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to their scheduled maturities or the declines in fair values are due to expected credit loss. We generally do not use our marketable debt securities investments for trading purposes.  

Borrowings and Related Fair Value Hedges 

Our total borrowings were $84.2 billion as of May 31, 2021, consisting of $84.1 billion of fixed-rate borrowings and $113 million of other borrowings, compared to $71.6 billion as of May 31, 2020, consisting of $71.5 billion of fixed-rate borrowings and $113 million of other borrowings. With the exception of those senior notes for which we have  

57 

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

corresponding fair value hedges that are recorded at their fair values as of each reporting period and discussed further below, we record all of our fixed-rate borrowings at amortized cost and therefore, any changes in interest rates do not impact the values that we report for these senior notes or our consolidated financial statements.  

As of May 31, 2021, we held certain interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed-interest rate obligations associated with certain of our senior notes to variable interest rate obligations based on LIBOR that we have designated as fair value hedges, among certain other effects. Consequently, these swap agreements are recorded at their fair values at each reporting period and incur gains and losses due to changes in market interest rates but are substantially offset by the corresponding losses and gains on the related senior notes for which the swap agreements pertained. By entering into these swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon LIBOR. Changes in interest rates affected the interest expense that we recognized in our consolidated statements of operations and the values that we report for these instruments as of each reporting date. Additional details regarding our senior notes and related swap agreements are included in Notes 7 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We do not use these swap arrangements for trading purposes. 

Currency Risk  

Foreign Currency Translation Risk  

As described under “Constant Currency Presentation” above, our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of our consolidated revenues and expenses that we report in U.S. Dollars. As a result, our consolidated revenues and expenses are affected and will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major foreign currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets, liabilities, earnings and cash flows that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into U.S. Dollars for, and as of the end of, each reporting period. In particular, the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar generally will reduce the reported amount of our foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, total revenues and total expense that we translate into U.S. Dollars and report in our consolidated financial statements for, and as of the end of, each reporting period. 

Foreign Currency Transaction Risk  

We transact business in various foreign currencies. Our principal currency exposures include the Euro, Japanese Yen, Saudi Arabian Riyal, Indian Rupee and British Pound. Our foreign currency exposures primarily arise from various intercompany transactions. We have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks that arise from the aforementioned transactions. Under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts for major currencies in which we have an exposure so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts which mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. We may suspend this program from time to time. Our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration and we do not use them for trading purposes. 

We realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts, and we also incur costs to enter into these foreign currency forward contracts, substantially all of which are included in non-operating income, net in our consolidated financial statements. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. Furthermore, as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, in which the amounts and timing are unknown. Refer to Notes 1 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional details about our foreign currency forward contracts. 

58 

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Sensitivity Analysis 

The following table sets forth the hypothetical potential losses that we consider to be the most material to the fair values of our interest rate and currency influenced holdings, including associated derivatives, or future earnings resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market rates as of or for the reporting periods below: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Item 8.