Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Financial Instruments

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. We believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of January 3, 2021.

46
We use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. We enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. Approximately 70% of our business is conducted outside of the United States, generally in foreign currencies. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business.

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures from these currencies, with gains and losses resulting from the forward currency contracts that hedge these exposures. Transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. The contracts are primarily in European and Asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. The unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. The cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from operating activities within our consolidated statements of cash flows.

Principal hedged currencies include the Brazilian Real, British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, Indian Rupee, Singapore Dollar and Swedish Krona. We held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with U.S. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $808.0 million at January 3, 2021, $277.6 million at December 29, 2019, and $223.3 million at December 30, 2018, and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. The gains and losses realized on these foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. The duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during each of fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018.

In addition, in connection with certain intercompany loan agreements utilized to finance our acquisitions and stock repurchase program, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of such intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. We record these hedges at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. The unrealized gains and losses on these hedges, as well as the gains and losses associated with the remeasurement of the intercompany loans, are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. The cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from financing activities within our consolidated statements of cash flows.

The outstanding forward exchange contracts designated as economic hedges, which were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to the settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements, included combined Euro notional amounts of €33.4 million and U.S. Dollar notional amounts of $499.0 million as of January 3, 2021, combined Euro notional amounts of €105.8 million and combined U.S. Dollar notional amounts of $5.6 million as of December 29, 2019, and combined Euro notional amounts of €37.3 million and combined U.S. Dollar notional amounts of $5.7 million as of December 30, 2018. The net gains and losses on these derivatives, combined with the gains and losses on the remeasurement of the hedged intercompany loans were not material for each of the fiscal years 2020 and 2019. We paid $4.6 million and $1.3 million during the fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively, from the settlement of these hedges.

During fiscal year 2018, we designated a portion of the 2026 Notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. Unrealized translation adjustments from a portion of the 2026 Notes were included in the foreign currency translation component of AOCI, which offsets translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. The cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. As of January 3, 2021, the total notional amount of the 2026 Notes that was designated to hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries was €497.2 million. The unrealized foreign exchange losses (gains) recorded in AOCI related to the net investment hedge were $49.6 million and $(4.9) million during the fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

During fiscal year 2018, we designated the 2021 Notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. Unrealized translation adjustments from the 2021 Notes were included in the foreign currency translation component of AOCI, which offsets translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. The cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in AOCI until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2020, we removed the hedging relationship of the first €100.0 million of the 2021 Notes and investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we removed the hedging relationship of the remaining €200.0 million of the 2021 Notes and investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. The unrealized foreign exchange losses (gains) recorded in AOCI related to the net investment hedge were $1.8 million and $(8.0) million during the fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

47
During fiscal year 2019, we entered into a cross-currency swap designated as a net investment hedge to hedge the Euro currency exposure of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. This agreement is a contract to exchange fixed-rate payments in one currency for fixed-rate payments in another currency. Changes in the fair value of this swap are recorded in equity as a component of AOCI in the same manner as foreign currency translation adjustments. In assessing the effectiveness of this hedge, we use a method based on changes in spot rates to measure the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on both our foreign subsidiary net investment and the related swap. Under this method, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument other than those due to changes in the spot rate are initially recorded in AOCI as a translation adjustment, and then are amortized into other (income) expense, net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations using a systematic and rational method over the instrument’s term. Changes in the fair value associated with the effective portion (i.e. those changes due to the spot rate) are recorded in AOCI as a translation adjustment and are released and recognized in earnings only upon the sale or liquidation of the hedged net investment. The cross-currency swap has an initial notional value of €197.4 million or $220.0 million and matures on November 15, 2021. Interest on the cross-currency swap is payable semi-annually, in Euro, on May 15th and November 15th of each year based on the Euro notional value and a fixed rate of 2.47%. We receive interest in U.S. dollars on May 15th and November 15th of each year based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Euro notional value and a fixed rate of 5.00%. As of January 3, 2021, the fair value of the cross-currency swap was $(18.3) million, which was recorded in AOCI. The unrealized foreign exchange (losses) gains recorded in AOCI related to cross-currency swap were $(18.6) million and $0.3 million during the fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.

During the second and third quarters of fiscal year 2020, we entered into forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge the 2021 Notes. The effective portion of the gain or loss of the cash flow hedges will be reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. As of January 3, 2021, the total notional amount of the forward foreign exchange contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges was €300.0 million. The unrealized foreign exchange gains recorded in earnings related to the cash flow hedges were $29.3 million during the fiscal year 2020.

We do not expect any material net pre-tax gains or losses to be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income into interest and other expense, net within the next twelve months.

Market Risk

Market Risk. We are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures.

Foreign Exchange Risk. The potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 70% of our business is conducted outside of the United States, generally in foreign currencies. Our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. The intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. Moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the United States, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the United States, resulting in natural hedges.

Although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted.

Foreign Currency Risk—Value-at-Risk Disclosure. We utilize a Value-at-Risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. As discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. Our Value-at-Risk computation is based on the Monte Carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. As of January 3, 2021, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.5 million. This Value-At-Risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. Specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2020, the Value-At-Risk ranged between $0.2 million and $0.5 million, with an average of approximately $0.4 million.

Interest Rate Risk. As of January 3, 2021, we had $158.6 million in outstanding borrowings under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. As described above in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources,” amounts drawn under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility 

48
bear interest at variable rates. Our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $402.0 million at January 3, 2021. Fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures.

Interest Rate Risk—Sensitivity. Our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows:

(i) Changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows to fluctuate. An increase of 10%, or approximately 10 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.2 million for fiscal year 2021.

(ii) Changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate.

49
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data