ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our MD&A discusses our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), and are affected by our judgments, assumptions and estimates. The notes to our December 31, 2020 financial statements, primarily Note 2, summarize our significant accounting policies. 

We believe the following are our critical accounting policies, because they have a material impact on the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and they require us to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.

Income Tax Expense: We have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the Code. For each taxable year in which we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will not be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our “REIT taxable income” (generally, taxable income subject to specified adjustments, including a deduction for dividends paid and excluding our net capital gain) that is distributed to our shareholders. We believe we have met these REIT requirements for all periods presented herein. Accordingly, we have recorded no U.S. federal corporate income tax expense related to our REIT taxable income. 

Our evaluation that we have met the REIT requirements could be incorrect, because compliance with the tax rules requires factual determinations, and circumstances we have not identified could result in noncompliance with the tax requirements in current or prior years. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income for at least that year and the ensuing four years, we could be subject to penalties and interest, and our net income would be materially different from the amounts estimated in our financial statements.  

24

In addition, certain of our consolidated corporate subsidiaries have elected to be treated as TRSs for U.S. federal corporate income tax purposes, which are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. If tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our TRSs to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments. Such a penalty tax could have a material adverse impact on our net income.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: The analysis of impairment of our long-lived assets involves identification of indicators of impairment, projections of future operating cash flows, and estimates of fair values, all of which require significant judgment and subjectivity. Others could come to materially different conclusions. In addition, we may not have identified all current facts and circumstances that may affect impairment. Any unidentified impairment loss, or change in conclusions, could have a material adverse impact on our net income.

Accrual for Uncertain and Contingent Liabilities: We accrue for certain contingent and other liabilities that have significant uncertain elements, such as property taxes, workers compensation claims, tenant reinsurance claims, as well as other legal claims and disputes involving customers, employees, governmental agencies and other third parties. We estimate such liabilities based upon many factors such as assumptions of past and future trends and our evaluation of likely outcomes. However, the estimates of known liabilities could be incorrect or we may not be aware of all such liabilities, in which case our accrued liabilities and net income could be misstated. 

Allocating Purchase Price for Acquired Real Estate Facilities: We estimate the fair values of land and buildings for purposes of allocating the aggregate purchase price of acquired properties. The related estimation processes involve significant judgment. We estimate the fair value of acquired buildings by determining the current cost to build new purpose-built self-storage facilities in the same location, and adjusting those costs for the actual age, quality, condition, amenities, and configuration of the buildings acquired. We estimate the fair value of acquired land by considering the most directly comparable recently transacted land sales (“Land Comps”) and adjusting the transacted values for differentials to the acquired land such as location quality, parcel size, and date of sale, in order to derive the estimated value of the underlying acquired land. These adjustments to the Land Comps require significant judgment, particularly when there is a low volume of Land Comps or the available Land Comps lack similarity to the acquired property in proximity, date of sale, or location quality. Others could come to materially different conclusions as to the estimated fair values, which would result in different depreciation and amortization expense, gains and losses on sale of real estate assets, as well as the level of land and buildings on our balance sheet. 

Overview 

During a significant portion of 2020, the COVID Pandemic has resulted in cessation, severe curtailment, or impairment of business activities in most sectors of the economy in virtually all markets we operate in, due to governmental “stay at home” orders, risk mitigation procedures, closure of businesses not considered to be “essential,” as well as other direct and indirect impacts, including a rapid and dramatic increase in unemployment in the U.S. While in certain markets, initial government restrictions were eased in response to reductions in the rate of new infections, there have been increases in the rate of infection in certain markets from time to time and re-imposition of certain restrictions. These restrictions as well as public concerns about the COVID Pandemic continue to have an ongoing negative impact the economy, with unemployment continuing to be at high levels. 

Our self-storage facilities have been classified as “essential” businesses under all applicable business closure orders and thus remained open to all customer activity. We consider the safety of our employees and customers as our first priority, and have accordingly taken significant steps to ensure safety while keeping our services available to the public. These steps include initiating our touchless eRental® leasing platform, touchless mobile app allowing customer access to our properties, enforcing social distancing requirements in our property offices and grounds, and providing protective equipment, including face coverings, gloves, and plastic barriers.

Our corporate offices as well as our call centers migrated to a “work from home” environment during the COVID Pandemic. We expect our corporate employees to return to the corporate office assuming the risk of the COVID Pandemic continues to recede. However, we expect that our call centers will remain in a “work from home”  

25

environment due to certain favorable aspects of a distributed call center team. We believe these changes have not resulted in any significant negative impacts to our operations or decision making.

It is possible that stricter government restrictions, including stay at home orders, could be instituted or reinstituted in response to increases in infections, the aggregate effect of the COVID Pandemic and seasonal influenza infections, or if additional pandemics occur. We cannot estimate the extent of the COVID Pandemic’s future negative impacts.

The negative impacts of the COVID Pandemic are described more fully below, as well as throughout our MD&A which follows.

Our self-storage operations generate most of our net income. Our earnings growth is most impacted by the level of organic growth in our Same Store Facilities’ revenues. Accordingly, a significant portion of management’s time is devoted to maximizing cash flows from our existing self-storage facilities. 

During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, revenues generated by our Same Store Facilities decreased by 1.0% and increased by 1.5%, respectively, as compared to the previous year. Revenue growth in each year was impacted by increased competition from newly developed facilities. The decrease in revenue in the year ended December 31, 2020 included the negative impact caused by the COVID Pandemic including restrictions on rate increases to tenants imposed by local government due to “States of Emergency.” Our trends in revenue have improved in the last half of 2020, with revenues from our Same Store Facilities increasing 0.8% during the three months ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2019. At December 31, 2020, as compared to December 31, 2019, occupancies for our Same Store Facilities was 2.7% higher, while the contract rent per occupied foot was essentially flat, suggesting continued revenue growth into early 2021. 

See “Self-storage Operations – Same Store Operations” for further information with respect to our same-store operations, including potential downside risks to our expectations. 

In addition to managing our existing facilities for organic growth, we have grown and plan to continue to grow through the acquisition and development of new facilities and expanding our existing self-storage facilities. In the three years ended December 31, 2020, we acquired a total of 131 facilities with 9.9 million net rentable square feet from third parties for approximately $1.4 billion, and we opened newly developed and expanded self-storage space for a total cost of $866.1 million, adding approximately 7.9 million net rentable square feet. 

In order to enhance the competitive position of certain of our facilities relative to local competitors (including newly developed “fifth generation” facilities), we have embarked on a multi-year program to rebrand our properties, in order to develop more pronounced, attractive, and clearly identifiable color schemes and signage, as well as to upgrade the configuration and layout of the offices and other customer zones to improve the customer experience. The timing and scope of the program will evolve as the work is executed and we evaluate its impact. The cost of this program is included in “capital expenditures to maintain our real estate facilities” on our statements of cash flow, and the program is discussed more fully in “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Expenditure Requirements” below. 

See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further information regarding our capital requirements and anticipated sources of capital to fund such requirements.  

26

Results of Operations 

Operating results for 2020 and 2019

In 2020, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $1,098.3 million or $6.29 per diluted common share, compared to $1,272.8 million or $7.29 per diluted common share in 2019 representing a decrease of $174.4 million or $1.00 per diluted common share. The decrease is due primarily to (i) a $105.8 million decrease due to the impact of foreign currency exchange gains and losses associated with our Euro denominated debt, (ii) a $40.3 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, (iii) a $21.1 million increase in general and administrative expense, (iv) a $15.6 million decrease due to the impact of allocations to preferred shareholders with respect to redemption of preferred shares, and (v) a $8.0 million decrease in self-storage net operating income.

The $8.0 million decrease in self-storage net operating income is a result of a $41.7 million decrease in our Same Store Facilities (as defined below), offset partially by a $33.7 million increase in our non-Same Store Facilities (as defined below). Revenues for the Same Store Facilities decreased 1.0% or $23.7 million in 2020 as compared to 2019, due primarily to reduced late charges and administrative fees. Cost of operations for the Same Store Facilities increased by 2.7% or $18.1 million in 2020 as compared to 2019, due primarily to a 22.5% ($11.0 million) increase in marketing expenses, a 3.1% ($7.4 million) increase in property tax expense, and a 2.5% ($3.1 million) increase in on-site property manager payroll expense. The increase in net operating income of $33.7 million for the non-Same Store Facilities is due primarily to the impact of facilities acquired in 2020 and 2019 and the fill-up of recently developed and expanded facilities.

Operating results for 2019 and 2018

In 2019, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $1,272.8 million or $7.29 per diluted common share, compared to $1,488.9 million or $8.54 per diluted common share in 2018 representing a decrease of $216.1 million or $1.25 per diluted common share. The decrease is due primarily to (i) $183.1 million in aggregate gains due to Shurgard’s initial public offering and the sale of our facility in West London to Shurgard in October 2018, (ii) our $37.7 million equity share of gains recorded by PS Business Parks during 2018, (iii) a $10.3 million decrease due to the impact of foreign currency exchange gains associated with our euro denominated debt and (iv) a $32.7 million allocation to our preferred shareholders associated with our preferred share redemption activities in 2019. These impacts were offset partially by a $34.3 million increase in self-storage net operating income (described below) and a reduction in general and administrative expense attributable to $30.7 million in incremental share-based compensation expense in 2018 for the planned retirement of our former CEO and CFO.

The $34.3 million increase in self-storage net operating income is a result of a $9.9 million increase in our Same Store Facilities and $24.4 million increase in our non-Same Store Facilities. Revenues for the Same Store Facilities increased 1.5% or $36.7 million in 2019 as compared to 2018, due primarily to higher realized annual rent per occupied square foot. Cost of operations for the Same Store Facilities increased by 4.2% or $26.9 million in 2019 as compared to 2018, due primarily to a 47.1% ($15.7 million) increase in marketing expenses and increased property taxes. The increase in net operating income of $24.4 million for the non-Same Store Facilities is due primarily to the impact of facilities acquired in 2019 and 2018 and the fill-up of recently developed and expanded facilities.

Funds from Operations and Core Funds from Operations

Funds from Operations (“FFO”) and FFO per share are non-GAAP measures defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts and are considered helpful measures of REIT performance by REITs and many REIT analysts. FFO represents net income before depreciation and amortization, which is excluded because it is based upon historical costs and assumes that building values diminish ratably over time, while we believe that real estate values fluctuate due to market conditions. FFO also excludes gains or losses on sale of real estate assets and real estate impairment charges, which are also based upon historical costs and are impacted by historical depreciation. FFO and FFO per share are not a substitute for net income or earnings per share. FFO is not a substitute for net cash flow in evaluating our liquidity or ability to pay dividends, because it excludes investing and financing  

27

activities presented on our statements of cash flows. In addition, other REITs may compute these measures differently, so comparisons among REITs may not be helpful.

For the year ended December 31, 2020, FFO was $9.75 per diluted common share, as compared to $10.58 and $10.45 per diluted common share for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, representing a decrease in 2020 of 7.8%, or $0.83 per diluted common share, as compared to 2019. The following tables reconcile diluted earnings per share to FFO per share and set forth the computation of FFO per share:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We also present “Core FFO per share,” a non-GAAP measure that represents FFO per share excluding the impact of (i) foreign currency exchange gains and losses, (ii) EITF D-42 charges related to the redemption of preferred securities, and (iii) certain other significant non-cash and/or nonrecurring income or expense items such as loss contingency accruals, casualties, transactional due diligence, and advisory costs. We review Core FFO per share to evaluate our ongoing operating performance and we believe it is used by investors and REIT analysts in a similar manner. However, Core FFO per share is not a substitute for net income per share. Because other REITs may not compute Core FFO per share in the same manner as we do, may not use the same terminology or may not present such a measure, Core FFO per share may not be comparable among REITs.

28

The following table reconciles FFO per share to Core FFO per share:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Analysis of Net Income by Reportable Segment

The following discussion and analysis is presented and organized in accordance with Note 11 to our December 31, 2020 financial statements, “Segment Information.” Accordingly, refer to the table presented in Note 11 in order to reconcile such amounts to our total net income and for further information on our reportable segments.

Self-Storage Operations

Our self-storage operations are analyzed in four groups: (i) the 2,221 facilities that we have owned and operated on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2018 (the “Same Store Facilities”), (ii) 131 facilities we acquired after December 31, 2017 (the “Acquired facilities”), (iii) 148 facilities that have been newly developed or expanded, or that had commenced expansion by December 31, 2020 (the “Newly developed and expanded facilities”) and (iv) 48 other facilities, which are otherwise not stabilized with respect to occupancies or rental rates since January 1, 2018 (the “Other non-same store facilities”). See Note 11 to our December 31, 2020 financial statements “Segment Information,” for a reconciliation of the amounts in the tables below to our total net income.

29

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30

(a)We revised our prior period financial statements to correct the presentation of share-based compensation expense between general and administrative expense and self-storage cost of operations. As a result, we revised our statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 with an increase in self-storage cost of operations of $9.8 million and $14.0 million, respectively, and a corresponding decrease to general and administrative expenses. This immaterial correction had no impact on our total expenses or net income. The correction also had no impact on our balance sheet, statements of comprehensive income, statements of equity, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

(b)Net operating income or “NOI” is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense, which is based upon historical real estate costs and assumes that building values diminish ratably over time, while we believe that real estate values fluctuate due to market conditions. We utilize NOI in determining current property values, evaluating property performance, and in evaluating property operating trends. Direct net operating income (a subtotal within NOI) is also a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of supervisory payroll, centralized management costs and stock based compensation in addition to depreciation and amortization expense. We utilize direct net operating income in evaluating property performance and in evaluating property operating trends as compared to our competitors. We believe that investors and analysts utilize NOI and direct net operating income in a similar manner. These measures are not a substitute for net income, operating cash flow, or other related financial measures, in evaluating our operating results. See Note 11 to our December 31, 2020 financial statements for a reconciliation of NOI to our total net income for all periods presented.

Net operating income from our self-storage operations decreased 0.4% in 2020 and increased 1.8% in 2019, as compared to the previous year. The decrease in 2020 is due primarily to a reduction in Same Store net operating income due to the impact of the COVID Pandemic, partially offset by the acquisition and development of new facilities and the fill-up of unstabilized facilities.

Same Store Facilities

The Same Store Facilities consist of facilities that have been owned and operated on a stabilized level of occupancy, revenues and cost of operations since January 1, 2018. The composition of our Same Store Facilities allows us to more effectively evaluate the ongoing performance of our self-storage portfolio in 2018, 2019, and 2020 and exclude the impact of fill-up of unstabilized facilities, which can significantly affect operating trends. We believe the Same Store information is used by investors and REIT analysts in a similar manner. 

The following table summarizes the historical operating results of these 2,221 facilities (143.7 million net rentable square feet) that represent approximately 82% of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our U.S. consolidated self-storage portfolio at December 31, 2020. It includes various measures and detail that we do not include in the analysis of the developed, acquired, and other non-same store facilities, due to the relative magnitude and importance of our same store facilities relative to our self-storage facilities. 

31

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

32

(a)Revenues and cost of operations do not include tenant reinsurance and merchandise sales and expenses generated at the facilities. See “Ancillary Operations” below for more information.

(b)Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by dividing rental income, before late charges and administrative fees, by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per available square foot (“REVPAF”) is computed by dividing rental income, before late charges and administrative fees, by the total available net rentable square feet for the period. These measures exclude late charges and administrative fees in order to provide a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue. Late charges are dependent upon the level of delinquency and administrative fees are dependent upon the level of move-ins. In addition, the rates charged for late charges and administrative fees can vary independently from rental rates. These measures take into consideration promotional discounts, which reduce rental income. 

(c)Annual contract rent represents the agreed upon monthly rate that is paid by our tenants in place at the time of measurement. Contract rates are initially set in the lease agreement upon move-in and we adjust them from time to time with notice. Contract rent excludes other fees that are charged on a per-item basis, such as late charges and administrative fees, does not reflect the impact of promotional discounts, and does not reflect the impact of rents that are written off as uncollectible. 

Analysis of Same Store Revenue

Revenues generated by our Same Store Facilities decreased by 1.0% in 2020, and increased by 1.5% in 2019, in each case as compared to the previous year. The decrease in 2020 is due to the negative impact caused by the COVID Pandemic, certain restrictions on rate increases to existing tenants imposed by local governments due to “States of Emergency”, reduced late charges and administrative fees, as well as the continued impact of increased new supply from new developments (see below). 

The revenue increase in 2019 was due to a 1.2% increase in realized rent per occupied foot, combined with a 0.4% increase in average occupancy. Same Store revenue growth in 2019 was lower than long-term historical averages due to softness in demand for our storage space, which has led to lower move-in rental rates for new tenants (see below). We attribute some of this softness to local economic conditions and, in some markets most notably Atlanta, Austin, Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, Miami, Minneapolis, New York and Portland, increased supply of newly constructed self-storage facilities.

Revenue Strategy 

We believe a balanced occupancy and rate strategy will maximize our revenues over time. We regularly adjust the rental rates and promotional discounts offered (generally, “$1.00 rent for the first month”), as well as our marketing efforts on the Internet and other channels to maximize revenue from new tenants to replace tenants that vacate. 

We typically increase rental rates to our long-term tenants (generally, those that have been with us for at least a year) once per year. As a result, the number of long-term tenants we have in our facilities is an important factor in our revenue growth. The level of rate increases to long-term tenants is based upon balancing the additional revenue from the increase against the negative impact of incremental move-outs, by considering the customer’s in-place rent and prevailing market rents, among other factors. During the year ended December 31, 2019, our primary revenue growth came from existing tenant rate increases. However, during the year ended December 31, 2020, rental rate increases were of smaller magnitude resulting from COVID Pandemic concerns and pricing regulations in multiple markets. 

Realized Annual Rent per Occupied Square Foot 

Realized annual rent per occupied square foot decreased 1.1% and increased 1.2% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

The decrease in realized rent per occupied square foot for the year ended December 31, 2020 was due to (i) our decision to temporarily curtail our tenant rate increase program for a limited period during the COVID Pandemic in response to anticipated negative economic impacts on our tenants and (ii) limitations on the magnitude  

33

of rate increases given to existing tenants due to temporary governmental pricing limitations as a result of “State of Emergency” declarations. 

The increase in realized rent per occupied foot for the year ended December 31, 2019 was due primarily to the impact of rate increases to existing long-term tenants. 

In each of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had an increased average length of stay. An increased average length of stay supports revenue growth, due to more long-term tenants who are eligible for rate increases, and a reduced requirement to replace vacating tenants with new tenants which can reduce promotional costs and increase our pricing leverage. This trend to an increased length of stay became more pronounced in 2020 due in significant part, we believe, to temporary effects resulting from the COVID Pandemic such as less consumer mobility. 

Occupancy Levels 

Our average square foot occupancy levels increased 1.2% and 0.4% on a year over year basis during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 

The improvement in occupancy trends in the year ended December 31, 2020 was due primarily to improved trends in move-outs, with year over year move-outs down 7.4% in the year ended December 31, 2020. 

Demand historically has been higher in the summer months than in the winter months and, as a result, rental rates charged to new tenants have typically been higher in the summer months than in the winter months. Demand fluctuates due to various local and regional factors, including the overall economy. Demand into our system is also impacted by new supply of self-storage space as well as alternatives to self-storage.

Late Charges and Administrative Fees 

We experienced a 24.0% year over year reduction in late charges and administrative fees collected during the year ended December 31, 2020. This decrease was due primarily to reduced late charges and lien fees beginning with the onset of the COVID Pandemic in early March 2020, due to (i) an acceleration in average collections whereby a greater percentage of tenants paid their monthly rent promptly to avoid the incurrence of such fees and, to a lesser extent and (ii) reduced move-in administrative fees due to lower move-ins. 

Bad Debt and Collection Losses 

Despite consumer stress and temporary delays of auctions due to logistical difficulties or governmental restrictions in year ended December 31, 2020, we did not experience a significant increase in bad debt from historical levels because of (i) federal government stimulus and supplements to unemployment benefits which mitigated consumer stress, and (ii) steps we took to augment our collection efforts and accelerate payment by our customers.

Selected Key Statistical Data 

The following table sets forth average annual contract rent per square foot, and total square footage, for tenants moving in and moving out during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. It also includes promotional discounts, which vary based upon the move-in contractual rates, move-in volume, and percentage of tenants moving in who receive the discount. 

‎  

34

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue Expectations 

At December 31, 2020, in place contractual rent was 2.3% higher on a year-over-year basis (comprised of a 2.7% increase in square foot occupancy offset partially by a 0.4% decrease in annual contract rent per occupied foot). 

As noted above, the COVID Pandemic resulted in reduced demand, lower rates charged to new tenants on a year over year basis, and curtailed rent increases to existing tenants during the first six months of 2020, which had continuing negative impact on revenue growth in the remainder of 2020. Notwithstanding the decrease in Same-Store revenue for all of 2020, revenue growth trends improved steadily in the last half of 2020, with increased demand for storage space, increased rates charged to new tenants moving in, decreased move-outs, and a resumption of rate increases to existing long-term tenant albeit at a lesser magnitude than in prior years. Total revenues increased 0.8% on a year over year basis in the three months ended December 31, 2020. 

We expect continued revenue growth during the first half of 2021 supported by increased customer demand and modest move out activity. There is more uncertainty in the level of growth during the second half of 2021 given challenging comparables over 2020 and risk that customer behavior (particularly the level of move-out activity) returns to historical levels. 

We expect that the impact of reduced late charges noted above will persist on a year over year basis through the quarter ending March 31, 2021. 

Notwithstanding our expectations, we are in a time of significant uncertainty, and there are reasonably possible circumstances and events which could result in actual future revenues being significantly lower than our expectations, including the following: 

Storage demand could decline or collection losses could increase due to increased recessionary circumstances, worsening of the COVID Pandemic, the potential confluence of higher seasonal influenza infections and COVID infections, or other factors.

The moderation of below-trend move-outs noted above could be sudden and dramatic, and/or disproportionally involve long-term tenants with higher rental rates. 

It is possible that the COVID Pandemic could impact current seasonal demand trends in the short or long term, due to changes in certain factors impacting moving trends, such as potentially fewer college students living on-campus in favor of online learning or an increase in working from home reducing the necessity of moving for employment reasons.

35

Analysis of Same Store Cost of Operations 

Costs of Operations

Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization) increased 2.7% in 2020 as compared to 2019, and 4.2% in 2019 as compared to 2018, due primarily to increased property tax, marketing expense and on-site property manager payroll. 

Property tax expense increased 3.1% in 2020 as compared to 2019, and 4.5% in 2019 as compared to 2018. We expect property tax expense growth of approximately 5.5% in 2021 due primarily to higher assessed values and, to a lesser extent, increased tax rates. See “Risk Factors – We have exposure to increased property tax in California” for further information on our property tax with respect to our California properties. 

On-site property manager payroll expense increased 2.5% in 2020 as compared to 2019 and 2.4% in 2019 as compared to 2018. The increase for 2020 includes the impact of COVID Pandemic measures taken between April 1, 2020 and June 30, 2020 to keep our facilities open, including a $3.00 hourly wage increase, and enhancement of paid time off benefits, for virtually all of our property managers, offset by a 6.9% year over year decrease in hours worked due to staffing reductions from reduced move-in and move-out activity and revisions to other operational processes. We expect reductions in hours worked to continue throughout 2021. 

Repairs and maintenance expense decreased 4.4% in 2020 as compared to 2019 and increased 3.2% in 2019 as compared to 2018. Repair and maintenance costs include snow removal expense totaling $2.6 million, $4.1 million, and $3.7 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Excluding snow removal costs, repairs and maintenance decreased 1.8% in 2020 as compared to 2019 and increased 2.7% in 2019 as compared to 2018.

Repairs and maintenance expense levels are dependent upon many factors such as (i) sporadic occurrences such as accidents, damage, and equipment malfunctions, (ii) short-term local supply and demand factors for material and labor, and (iii) weather conditions, which can impact costs such as snow removal, roof repairs, and HVAC maintenance and repairs. Accordingly, it is difficult to estimate future repairs and maintenance expense.

Our utility expenses are comprised primarily of electricity costs, which are dependent upon energy prices and usage levels. Changes in usage levels are driven primarily by weather and temperature. Utility expense decreased 9.2% in 2020 as compared to 2019 and 2.9% in 2019 as compared to 2018. It is difficult to estimate future utility costs, because weather, temperature, and energy prices are volatile and not predictable. The decreases experienced in 2020 are due primarily to investments we are making in energy saving technology such as solar power and LED lights which generate favorable returns on investment in the form of lower utility usage. We continue to make investments in solar power and LED lights and expect a decline in utility expense throughout 2021. 

Marketing expense is comprised principally of Internet advertising and the operating costs of our telephone reservation center. Internet advertising expense, comprised primarily of keyword search fees assessed on a “per click” basis, varies based upon demand for self-storage space, the quantity of people inquiring about self-storage through online search, occupancy levels, the number and aggressiveness of bidding competitors and other factors. These factors are volatile; accordingly, Internet advertising can increase or decrease significantly in the short-term. Marketing expense increased 22.5% in 2020 as compared to 2019 and 47.1% in 2019 as compared to 2018. These increases are due primarily to higher traditional “per click” advertising on paid search platforms as we have sought to attract more customers for our space, and cost per click for keyword search terms increased due to more keyword bidding competition from existing self-storage owners and operators, including owners of newly developed facilities and nontraditional storage providers. To a lesser extent, the increases reflects additional spending on social media outlets as well as aggregator websites, as we believe these channels provide exposure to incremental customers at a favorable cost. We expect moderation in the level of marketing expense growth in 2021. 

Other direct property costs include administrative expenses specific to each self-storage facility, such as property insurance, telephone and data communication lines, business license costs, bank charges related to  

36

processing the facilities’ cash receipts, tenant mailings, credit card fees, and the cost of operating each property’s rental office. These costs increased 2.0% in 2020 as compared to 2019 and 2.5% in 2019 as compared to 2018. We continue to experience increased credit card fees due to a long-term trend of more customers paying with credit cards rather than cash, checks, or other methods of payment with lower transaction costs. We expect inflationary increases in other direct property costs in 2021. 

Supervisory payroll expense, which represents cash compensation paid to the management personnel who directly and indirectly supervise the on-site property managers, increased 4.2% in 2020 as compared to 2019 due primarily to higher headcount, and increased 1.6% in 2019 as compared to 2018 due primarily to higher wage rates. We expect inflationary increases in 2021. 

Centralized management costs represents administrative and cash compensation expenses for shared general corporate functions to the extent their efforts are devoted to self-storage operations. Such functions include information technology support, hardware, and software, as well as centralized administration of payroll, benefits, training, repairs and maintenance, customer service, pricing and marketing, operational accounting and finance, and legal costs. Centralized management costs decreased 3.5% in 2020 as compared to 2019 and 0.5% in 2019 as compared to 2018. The decrease in 2020 was due to reduced headcount and reduced travel expenses. We expect increases in centralized management costs in 2021 due to increased headcount. 

Share-based compensation expense includes the amortization of restricted share units and stock options granted to management personnel who directly and indirectly supervise the on-site property managers, as well as those employees responsible for providing shared general corporate functions to the extent their efforts are devoted to self-storage operations. Such functions are listed above under centralized management costs. Share-based compensation expense also includes related employer taxes and varies based upon the level of grants and their related vesting and amortization periods, forfeitures, as well as the Company’s common share price on the date of each grant. 

Analysis of Same Store Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization for Same Store Facilities increased 3.2% in 2020 as compared to 2019 and 0.1% in 2019 as compared to 2018. We expect modest increases in depreciation expense in 2021 due to elevated levels of capital expenditures. 

‎  

37

Quarterly Financial Data

The following table summarizes selected quarterly financial data with respect to the Same Store Facilities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

38

Analysis of Market Trends

The following table sets forth selected market trends in our Same Store Facilities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

‎  

39

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

‎  

40

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue declined on a year-over-year basis for nearly all of our markets in 2020 as compared to 2019. We believe that our geographic diversification and scale across substantially all major metropolitan markets in the U.S. provides some insulation from localized economic effects and enhances the stability of our cash flows. It is difficult to predict localized trends in short-term self-storage demand and operating results. Over the long run, we believe that markets that experience population growth, high employment, and otherwise exhibit economic strength and consistency will outperform markets that do not exhibit these characteristics.

Acquired Facilities

The Acquired Facilities represent 131 facilities that we acquired in 2018, 2019, and 2020. As a result of the stabilization process and timing of when these facilities were acquired, year-over-year changes can be significant.

The following table summarizes operating data with respect to the Acquired Facilities:

‎ 

41

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Represents the percentage change with respect to square foot occupancy and annual contract rent per occupied square foot, and the absolute nominal change with respect to all other items.

(b)Revenues and cost of operations do not include tenant reinsurance or merchandise sales generated at the facilities. See “Ancillary Operations” below for more information.

We believe that our economies of scale in marketing and operations allows us to generate higher net operating income from newly acquired facilities than was achieved by the previous owners. However, it can take 12 or more months for us to fully achieve the higher net operating income, or even longer in the case of an acquired facility with low occupancy levels and/or below market in place rents, and the ultimate levels of net operating income to be achieved can be affected by changes in general economic conditions. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our expectations with respect to these newly acquired facilities. 

The Acquired Facilities have an aggregate of approximately 9.9 million net rentable square feet, including 0.8 million in Virginia, 0.7 million in each of Minnesota and Texas, 0.6 million in each of Florida and Ohio, 0.5 million each in Georgia, Michigan and Pennsylvania, 0.4 million in each of Colorado, Indiana, Illinois and Nebraska, 0.3 million in each of Alabama, Arizona, California, Massachusetts, Missouri, South Carolina, Tennessee and Washington and 1.0 million in other states.

For 2020, the weighted average annualized yield on cost, based upon net operating income, for the 25 properties acquired in 2018 was 5.3%. The yield for the facilities acquired in 2019 is not meaningful due to the presence of unstabilized facilities. The yield for the facilities acquired in 2020 is not meaningful due to our limited ownership period. 

Subsequent to December 31, 2020, we acquired or were under contract to acquire 40 self-storage facilities across 18 states with 3.5 million net rentable square feet, for $580.1 million. These include 12 newly developed facilities that are expected to close as they are completed throughout 2021.

We are actively seeking to acquire additional facilities and the environment for new acquisitions has improved. We are observing increased selling activity for both new constructed non-stabilized and stabilized properties. However, future acquisition volume will depend upon whether additional owners will be motivated to market their facilities, which will in turn depend upon factors such as economic conditions and the level of seller confidence. 

43

Analysis of Depreciation and Amortization of Acquired Facilities 

Depreciation and amortization with respect to the Acquired Facilities totaled $41.0 million, $24.4 million and $5.9 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. These amounts include (i) depreciation of the acquired buildings, which is recorded generally on a straight line basis over a 25 year period, and (ii) amortization of cost allocated to the tenants in place upon acquisition of a facility, which is recorded based upon the benefit of such existing tenants to each period and thus is highest when the facility is first acquired and declines as such tenants vacate. With respect to the Acquired Facilities owned at December 31, 2020, depreciation of buildings and amortization of tenant intangibles is expected to aggregate approximately $56.5 million in the year ending December 31, 2021. There will be additional depreciation and amortization of tenant intangibles with respect to new buildings that are acquired in 2021. 

Developed and Expanded Facilities 

The developed and expanded facilities include 77 facilities that were developed on new sites since January 1, 2015, and 71 facilities subject to expansion of their net rentable square footage. Of these expansions, 20 were completed at January 1, 2019, 39 were completed in the 24 months ended December 31, 2020, and 12 were in process at December 31, 2020. 

The following table summarizes operating data with respect to the Developed and Expanded Facilities: 

44

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46

(a)Represents the percentage change with respect to square foot occupancy and annual contract rent per occupied square foot, and the absolute nominal change with respect to all other items. 

(b)Revenues and cost of operations do not include tenant reinsurance or merchandise sales generated at the facilities. See “Ancillary Operations” below for more information.

(c)The facilities included above have an aggregate of approximately 17.7 million net rentable square feet at December 31, 2020, including 6.6 million in Texas, 2.4 million in California, 2.3 million in Florida, 1.5 million in Colorado, 1.1 million in Minnesota, 0.8 million in North Carolina, 0.7 million in Washington, 0.4 million in Missouri, 0.3 million in each of Arizona, Georgia, Michigan and South Carolina and 0.7 million in other states.

(d)These amounts only include the direct cost incurred to expand and renovate these facilities, and do not include (i) the original cost to develop or acquire the facility or (ii) the lost revenue on space demolished during the construction and fill-up period. 

It typically takes at least three to four years for a newly developed or expanded self-storage facility to stabilize with respect to revenues. Physical occupancy can be achieved as early as two to three years following completion of the development or expansion, through offering lower rental rates during fill-up. As a result, even after achieving high occupancy, there can still be a period of elevated revenue growth as the tenant base matures and higher rental rates are achieved. 

We believe that our development and redevelopment activities generate favorable risk-adjusted returns over the long run. However, in the short run, our earnings are diluted during the construction and stabilization period due to the cost of capital to fund the development cost, as well as the related construction and development overhead expenses included in general and administrative expense. We believe the level of dilution incurred in 2019 and 2020 will continue at similar levels in 2021. 

Our existing unstabilized facilities continued to fill up in terms of occupancies consistent with our general expectations during 2020, despite the impact of the COVID Pandemic, and we expect that trend to continue. Our unstabilized facilities are affected by the same market dynamics that affect our Same Store properties. Accordingly, whether we ultimately achieve our yield expectations, and the timeframe for reaching stabilized cash flows, depends largely upon the same factors affecting aggregate demand, move-ins, move-outs, and realized annual rent per occupied square foot for our Same Store Facilities as set forth under “Analysis of Same Store Revenue” above.

At December 31, 2020, we had a pipeline to develop 15 new self-storage facilities and expand 23 existing self-storage facilities, which will add approximately 3.6 million net rentable square feet at a cost of $561.4 million. We have continued to add projects to our development throughout 2020, despite the impact of the COVID Pandemic. We expect to continue to seek to add projects to maintain a robust pipeline. Our ability to do so continues to be challenged by various constraints such as difficulty in finding projects that meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations, and challenges in obtaining building permits for self-storage facilities in certain municipalities. 

Newly Developed Facilities 

The facilities included under “Developed in 2015” in the table above had high occupancies at December 31, 2018, but had 3.4% year over year revenue growth in 2020 which exceeds the 1.0% reduction in year over year revenue growth in the Same Store Facilities. This outperformance relative to the Same Store Facilities reflects the maturity of the existing tenant base following attainment of high occupancy, illustrating the latter stage of the stabilization process noted above. The yield on cost for these facilities, based upon the net operating income during 2020, was 10.5%.

We typically underwrite new developments to stabilize at approximately an 8.0% NOI yield on cost. We believe the 2016-2018 developed facilities, in aggregate, will meet that target on stabilization, though not to the same level of yield as the 2015 developed facilities, and have thus far leased-up as expected. The occupancies of facilities developed in 2019 and 2020 have leased-up as expected and are at the beginning of their revenue stabilization periods. We expect continued growth in these in 2021 and beyond as they continue to stabilize. The annualized yields that may be achieved on these facilities upon stabilization will depend on many factors, including local and current market  

47

conditions in the vicinity of each property, the level of new and existing supply, as well as the impact of the COVID Pandemic. 

We have 15 additional newly developed facilities in process, which will have a total of 1.4 million net rentable square feet of storage space and have an aggregate development cost totaling approximately $235.6 million. We expect these facilities to open over the next 18 to 24 months. 

Expansions of Existing Facilities 

The expansion of an existing facility involves the construction of new space on an existing facility, either on existing unused land or through the demolition of existing buildings in order to facilitate densification. The construction costs for an expanded facility may include, in addition to adding space, adding amenities such as climate control to existing space, improving the visual appeal of the facility, and to a much lesser extent, the replacement of existing doors, roofs, and HVAC. 

The return profile on the expansion of existing facilities differs from a new facility, due to a lack of land cost, and there can be less cash flow risk because we have more direct knowledge of the local demand for space on the site as compared to a new facility. However, expansions involve the demolition of existing revenue-generating space with the loss of the related revenues during the construction and fill-up period. 

The facilities under “completed expansions” represent those facilities where the expansions have been completed at December 31, 2020. We incurred a total of $478.7 million in direct cost to expand these facilities, demolished a total of 1.1 million net rentable square feet of storage space, and built a total of 5.2 million net rentable square feet of new storage space. 

The facilities under “expansions in process” represent those facilities where development is in process at December 31, 2020. We have a pipeline to add a total of 2.2 million net rentable square feet of storage space by expanding existing self-storage facilities for an aggregate direct development cost of $325.8 million. 

Analysis of Depreciation and Amortization of Developed and Expanded Facilities 

Depreciation and amortization with respect to the Developed and Expanded Facilities totaled $61.6 million, $53.8 million and $45.5 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. These amounts represent depreciation of the developed buildings and, in the case of the expanded facilities, the legacy depreciation on the existing buildings. With respect to the Developed and Expanded Facilities completed at December 31, 2020, depreciation of buildings is expected to aggregate approximately $67.3 million in 2021. There will be additional depreciation of new buildings that are developed or expanded in 2021. 

Other non-same store facilities 

The “Other non-same store facilities” represent facilities which, while not newly acquired, developed, or expanded, are not fully stabilized since January 1, 2018, due primarily to casualty events such as hurricanes, floods, and fires. 

The Other non-same store facilities have an aggregate 3.7 million net rentable square feet, including 0.8 million in Texas, 0.5 million in each of Ohio and Oklahoma, 0.4 million in South Carolina, 0.3 million in each Florida and New York, and 0.9 million in other states.

The net operating income for these facilities decreased from $30.5 million in 2018 to $28.7 million in 2019 and decreased from $28.7 million in 2019 to $28.1 million in 2020. During 2020, 2019, and 2018, the average occupancy for these facilities totaled 89.2%, 86.1%, and 85.5%, respectively, and the realized rent per occupied square feet totaled $12.66, $13.11, and $13.92, respectively.  

48

Over the longer term, we expect the growth in operations of these facilities to be similar to that of our Same Store facilities. However, in the short run, year over year comparisons will vary due to the impact of the underlying events which resulted in these facilities being classified as non-same store. 

Depreciation and amortization with respect to the other non-same store facilities totaled $28.2 million, $25.4 million and $23.3 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. We expect depreciation for these facilities in 2021 to approximate the depreciation incurred in 2020. 

Ancillary Operations

Ancillary revenues and expenses include amounts associated with the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities in the U.S., the sale of merchandise at our self-storage facilities and third party property management. The following table sets forth our ancillary operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Tenant reinsurance operations: Our customers have the option of purchasing insurance from a non-affiliated insurance company to cover certain losses to their goods stored at our facilities. A wholly-owned, consolidated subsidiary of Public Storage fully reinsures such policies, and thereby assumes all risk of losses under these policies from the insurance company. The subsidiary receives reinsurance premiums, substantially equal to the premiums collected from our tenants, from the non-affiliated insurance company. Such reinsurance premiums are shown as “Tenant reinsurance premiums” in the above table. 

Tenant reinsurance revenue increased 13.2% in 2020 and 5.0% in 2019 on a year over year basis. These increases reflect higher average premiums, as well as an increase in the tenant base with respect to acquired, newly developed, and expanded facilities. Tenant insurance revenues with respect to our Same Store Facilities totaled $123.5 million, $114.5 million, and $112.3 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, representing a 7.9% year over year increase in 2020 and 2.0% year over year increase in 2019. 

We expect future growth will come primarily from customers of newly acquired and developed facilities, as well as additional tenants at our existing unstabilized self-storage facilities.  

49

Cost of operations primarily includes claims paid as well as claims adjustment expenses. Claims expenses vary based upon the number of insured tenants and the volume of events which drive customer covered losses, such as burglary, as well as catastrophic weather events affecting multiple properties such as hurricanes and floods. Cost of operations were $28.5 million in 2020, $26.2 million in 2019, and $25.6 million in 2018. 

Merchandise sales: We sell locks, boxes, and packing supplies at our self-storage facilities and the level of sales of these items is primarily impacted by the level of move-ins and other customer traffic at our self-storage facilities. We do not expect any significant changes in revenues or profitability from our merchandise sales in 2021.

Third party property management: At December 31, 2020, we manage 92 facilities for third parties, and were under contract to manage 25 additional facilities including 24 facilities that are currently under construction. While we expect this business to increase in scope and size, we don’t expect any significant changes in overall profitability of this business in the near term as we seek new properties to manage and are in the earlier stages of lease-up for newly managed properties.

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate entities

At December 31, 2020, we had equity investments in PSB and Shurgard which we account for on the equity method and record our pro-rata share of the net income of these entities for each period.  The following table, and the discussion below, sets forth the significant components of our equity in earnings of unconsolidated real estate entities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Investment in PSB: Throughout all periods presented, we owned 7,158,354 shares of PSB common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in an operating partnership controlled by PSB, representing an aggregate approximately 42% common equity interest. The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock. 

At December 31, 2020, PSB wholly-owned approximately 27.7 million rentable square feet of commercial space and had a 95% interest in a 395-unit apartment complex. PSB also manages commercial space that we own pursuant to property management agreements. 

Included in our equity earnings from PSB are (i) our equity share of gains on sale of real estate totaling $11.3 million, $4.4 million and $37.7 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, and (ii) our equity share of preferred redemption charges totaling $4.6 million for 2019. 

Equity in earnings from PSB, excluding the aforementioned real estate gains and preferred redemption charges, decreased $0.7 million in 2020 as compared to 2019 due primarily to reduced net operating income from PSB’s sale of assets and increased $2.6 million in 2019 as compared to 2018 due primarily to improved property operations. See Note 4 to our December 31, 2020 financial statements for further discussion regarding PSB. PSB’s filings and selected financial information, including discussion of the factors that affect its earnings, including impacts from the COVID Pandemic, can be accessed through the SEC, and on PSB’s website, www.psbusinessparks.com. Information on this website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

50

Investment in Shurgard: Throughout all periods presented, we effectively owned, directly and indirectly 31.3 million Shurgard common shares. On October 15, 2018, Shurgard completed an initial global offering (the “Offering”), issuing 25.0 million of its common shares to third parties at a price of €23 per share (€575 million in gross proceeds), reducing our ownership interest from 49% to approximately 35%. Following the Offering, Shurgard’s shares trade on Euronext Brussels under the “SHUR” symbol. While we did not sell any shares in the Offering, and have no current plans to do so, we recorded a gain on disposition in 2018 totaling $151.6 million as if we had sold a proportionate share of our investment in Shurgard.

At December 31, 2020, Shurgard owned 241 self-storage facilities with approximately 13 million net rentable square feet. Shurgard pays us license fees for use of the “Shurgard” trademark, as described in more detail in Note 4 to our December 31, 2020 financial statements. 

In 2020, 2019, and 2018, Shurgard acquired six facilities, three facilities and eight facilities, respectively, for an aggregate cost of $55.6 million, $17.6 million, and $114.5 million, respectively. In 2020, Shurgard opened one newly developed facility at an aggregate cost totaling $17.2 million, and in each of 2019 and 2018, Shurgard opened two newly developed facilities at an aggregate cost totaling $22.2 million, and $19.6 million, respectively. 

The $0.2 million increase in our equity earnings from Shurgard from 2019 to 2020 is due to the impact of improved same store operating income offset partially by increases in tax and depreciation expense. The increase of $1.3 million from 2018 to 2019 is due to (i) a $10.1 million decrease in our equity share of depreciation expense, (ii) a $5.2 million decrease in our equity share of costs due to a casualty loss occurring in 2018 and the costs of the Offering, offset partially by (iii) a reduced average equity ownership interest during 2019 due to the Offering as well as $220 million uninvested offering proceeds, and (iv) a 5.2% reduction in average exchange rates of the U.S. Dollar to the Euro. 

Shurgard’s public filings and publicly reported information, including discussion of the factors that affect its earnings, including impacts from the COVID Pandemic, can be obtained on its website, https://corporate.shurgard.eu and on the website of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, http://www.bourse.lu. Information on these websites is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

For purposes of recording our equity in earnings from Shurgard, the Euro was translated at exchange rates of approximately 1.226 U.S. Dollars per Euro at December 31, 2020 (1.122 at December 31, 2019), and average exchange rates of 1.141 for 2020, 1.120 for 2019, and 1.181 for 2018. 

51

Analysis of items not allocated to segments

General and administrative expense: The following table sets forth our general and administrative expense: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Share-based compensation expense includes the amortization of restricted share units and stock options granted to certain corporate employees and trustees, as well as related employer taxes. We revised our prior period financial statements to correct the presentation of share-based compensation expense between general and administrative expense and self-storage cost of operations. As a result, we revised our statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 with an increase in self-storage cost of operations of $9.8 million and $14.0 million, respectively, and a corresponding decrease to general and administrative expenses. This immaterial correction had no impact on our total expenses or net income. The correction also had no impact on the balance sheet, statements of comprehensive income, statements of equity, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.

Share-based compensation expense, as well as related employer taxes, for management personnel who directly and indirectly supervise the on-site property managers, as well as those employees responsible for providing shared general corporate functions to the extent their efforts are devoted to self-storage operations, are included as self-storage cost of operations. See “Same Store Facilities” for further information. Share-based compensation expense varies based upon the level of grants and their related vesting and amortization periods, forfeitures, as well as the Company’s common share price on the date of each grant. 

In February 2018, we announced that our CEO and CFO at the time were retiring from their executive roles at the end of 2018 and would serve only as trustees of the Company. Accordingly, all remaining share-based compensation expense for these two executives was amortized through the end of 2018, resulting in approximately $30.7 million in incremental share-based compensation expense for 2018. 

In July 2020, our share-based compensation plans were modified to allow immediate vesting upon retirement (“Retirement Acceleration”), and to extend the exercisability of outstanding stock options up to a year after retirement, for currently outstanding and future grants. Employees are eligible for Retirement Acceleration if they meet certain conditions including length of service, age, notice of intent to retire, and facilitation of succession for their role. This modification resulted in incremental share-based compensation expense during 2020. 

Costs of senior executives represent the cash compensation paid to our CEO and CFO. 

Development and acquisition costs primarily represent internal and external expenses related to our development and acquisition of real estate facilities and varies primarily based upon the level of activities. The amounts in the above table are net of $11.8 million, $12.0 million, and $12.2 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, in development costs that were capitalized to newly developed and redeveloped self-storage facilities.  

52

During 2020, we incurred $3.2 million in costs associated with the write-off of cancelled development projects. Development and acquisition costs are expected to remain consistent in 2021 with the amount incurred in 2019. 

Tax compliance costs and taxes paid include taxes paid to various state and local authorities, the internal and external costs of filing tax returns, costs associated with complying with federal and state tax laws, and maintaining our compliance with Internal Revenue Service REIT rules. Such costs vary primarily based upon the tax rates of the various states in which we do business. 

Legal costs include internal personnel as well as fees paid to legal firms and other third parties with respect to general corporate legal matters and risk management, and varies based upon the level of legal activity. The future level of legal costs is not determinable. 

Public company costs represent the incremental costs of operating as a publicly-traded company, such as internal and external investor relations expenses, stock listing and transfer agent fees, Board costs, and costs associated with maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

Other costs represent certain professional and consulting fees, payroll, and overhead that are not attributable to our property operations. Such costs include nonrecurring and variable items, including $1.6 million in due diligence costs incurred in 2020, in connection with our non-binding proposal, which we did not proceed with, to acquire 100% of the stapled securities of National Storage REIT, as well as $5.6 million in advisory costs. The level of these costs depends upon corporate activities and initiatives and, as a result, such costs are not predictable.

Our future general and administrative expenses are difficult to estimate, due to their dependence upon many factors, including those noted above.

Interest and other income: Interest and other income is comprised primarily of the net income from our commercial operations, our property management operation, interest earned on cash balances, and trademark license fees received from Shurgard, as well as sundry other income items that are received from time to time in varying amounts. Excluding amounts attributable to our commercial operations totaling $8.6 million, $8.9 million, and $9.9 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, interest and other income decreased $4.0 million in 2020 and increased $3.1 million in 2019 on a year over year basis. The decrease for 2020 includes $10.6 million of interest earned on cash balances, partially offset by litigation settlements and the early repayment of notes receivable. The level of other interest and income items in 2021 will be dependent upon the level of cash balances we retain, interest rates, and the level of sundry other income items.

Interest expense: For 2020, 2019 and 2018, we incurred $59.7 million, $49.6 million, and $37.3 million, respectively, of interest on our outstanding debt. In determining interest expense, these amounts were offset by capitalized interest of $3.4 million, $3.9 million and $4.8 million during 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, associated with our development activities. The increase in 2020, 2019, and 2018 is due to the issuance of debt. At December 31, 2020, we had $2.5 billion of debt outstanding, with an average interest rate of approximately 2.4%. On January 19, 2021, we issued, $500 million of senior notes bearing interest at an annual rate of 0.875% and maturing on February 15, 2026. 

Future interest expense will be dependent upon the level of outstanding debt and the amount of in-process development costs. 

Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss): For 2020, we recorded a foreign currency translation loss of $98.0 million representing the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of our Euro-denominated unsecured notes due to fluctuations in exchange rates (gains of $7.8 million and loss of $18.1 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively). The Euro was translated at exchange rates of approximately 1.226 U.S. Dollars per Euro at December 31, 2020, 1.122 at December 31, 2019 and 1.144 at December 31, 2018. Future gains and losses on foreign currency translation will be  

53

dependent upon changes in the relative value of the Euro to the U.S. Dollar, and the level of Euro-denominated debt outstanding.

Gain on Real Estate Investment Sales: In 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded gains on real estate investment sales totaling $1.5 million, $0.3 million and $37.9 million, respectively. On October 18, 2018, we sold our property in West London to Shurgard for $42.1 million and recorded a related gain on sale of real estate of approximately $31.5 million. The remainder of the gains are primarily in connection with the partial sale of real estate facilities pursuant to eminent domain proceedings.

Gain due to Shurgard Public Offering: In connection with Shurgard’s Offering of its common shares to the public, our equity interest in Shurgard decreased from 49% to 35.2%. While we did not sell any of our shares in the Offering, we recorded a gain on disposition in 2018 of $151.6 million, as if we had sold a proportionate share of our investment in Shurgard. 

Net Income Allocable to Preferred Shareholders: Net income allocable to preferred shareholders based upon distributions totaled $207.1 million, $210.2 million, and $216.3 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. These decreases are due primarily to lower average coupon rates due to redemptions of preferred shares with the proceeds from the issuance of new series with lower market coupon rates. We also allocated $48.3 million and $32.7 million of income from our common shareholders to the holders of our preferred shares in 2020 and 2019, respectively, (none in 2018) in connection with the redemption of our preferred shares. Based upon our preferred shares outstanding at December 31, 2020, our quarterly distribution to our preferred shareholders is expected to be approximately $45.2 million.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

While being a REIT allows us to minimize the payment of U.S. federal corporate income tax expense, we are required to distribute 100% of our taxable income to our shareholders. This requirements limits cash flow from operations that can be retained and reinvested in the business, increasing our reliance upon raising capital to fund growth. 

Because raising capital is important to our growth, we endeavor to maintain a strong financial profile characterized by strong credit metrics, including low leverage relative to our total capitalization and operating cash flows. We are one of the highest rated REITs, as rated by major rating agencies Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Our senior debt has an “A” credit rating by Standard & Poor’s and “A2” by Moody’s. Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are “A3” by Moody’s and “BBB+” by Standard & Poor’s. Our credit profile and ratings enable us to effectively access both the public and private capital markets to raise capital.

While we must distribute our taxable income, we are nonetheless able to retain operating cash flow to the extent that our tax depreciation exceeds our maintenance capital expenditures. In recent years, we have retained approximately $200 million to $300 million per year in cash flow. 

Capital needs in excess of retained cash flow are met with: (i) preferred equity, (ii) medium and long-term debt, and (iii) common equity. We select among these sources of capital based upon relative cost, availability, the desire for leverage, and considering potential constraints caused by certain features of capital sources, such as debt covenants. We view our line of credit, as well as short-term bank loans, as bridge financing. 

We have a $500.0 million revolving line of credit which we occasionally use as temporary “bridge” financing until we are able to raise longer term capital. As of December 31, 2020 and February 24, 2021, there were no borrowings outstanding on the revolving line of credit, however, we do have approximately $24.3 million of outstanding letters of credit which limits our borrowing capacity to $475.7 million. Our line of credit matures on April 19, 2024.  

54

We believe that we have significant financial flexibility to adapt to changing conditions and opportunities. Currently, market rates of interest for our debt, and market coupon rates for our preferred equity, are at historically low levels and we have significant access to these sources of capital. On November 17, 2020, we issued $170.0 million in preferred securities at a 3.900% coupon rate and on January 19, 2021 we issued $500.0 million of unsecured senior notes at 0.875% maturing on February 15, 2026, both representing historically low financing costs to fund our growth initiatives. Based upon our substantial current liquidity relative to our capital requirements noted below, we would not expect any potential capital market dislocations to have a material impact upon our expected capital and growth plans over the next 12 months. However, if capital market conditions were to change significantly in the long run, our access to or cost of debt and preferred equity capital could be negatively impacted and potentially affect future investment activities.

Liquidity and Capital Resource Analysis: We believe that our net cash provided by our operating activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to meet our ongoing requirements for principal payments on debt, maintenance capital expenditures and distributions to our shareholders for the foreseeable future. 

As of December 31, 2020, we expect capital resources over the next year of approximately $1.5 billion, which exceeds our currently identified capital needs of approximately $1.3 billion. Our expected capital resources include: (i) $257.6 million of cash as of December 31, 2020, (ii) $475.7 million of available borrowing capacity on our revolving line of credit, (iii) $496.2 million in net proceeds from the public issuance of Senior Note due 2026 on January 14, 2021, and (iv) approximately $250 million to $300 million of expected retained operating cash flow in 2021. Retained operating cash flow represents our expected cash flow provided by operating activities, less shareholder distributions and capital expenditures. 

Our currently identified capital needs consist primarily of (i) $580.1 million in property acquisitions currently under contract, (ii) $373.3 million of remaining spending on our current development pipeline, which will be incurred primarily in the next 18 to 24 months and (iii) $300 million for the redemption of our Series B Preferred Shares. We have no substantial principal payments on debt until 2022. We expect our capital needs to increase over the next year as we add projects to our development pipeline and acquire additional properties. Additional potential capital needs could result from various activities including the redemption of outstanding preferred securities, repurchases of common stock, or mergers and acquisition activities; however, there can be no assurance of any such activities transpiring in the near or longer term.

To the extent our retained operating cash flow, cash on hand, and line of credit are insufficient to fund our activities, we believe we have a variety of possibilities to raise additional capital including issuing common or preferred securities, issuing debt, or entering into joint venture arrangements to acquire or develop facilities.

Required Debt Repayments: As of December 31, 2020, the principal outstanding on our debt totaled approximately $2.6 billion, consisting of $25.2 million of secured debt, $1.0 billion of Euro-denominated unsecured debt and $1.5 billion of U.S. Dollar denominated unsecured debt. Approximate principal maturities are as follows (amounts in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On January 19, 2021, we completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes bearing interest at an annual rate of 0.875% and maturing on February 15, 2026.  

55

Our debt is well-laddered and we have no material debt maturities until September 2022. 

Capital Expenditure Requirements: Capital expenditures include general maintenance, major repairs or replacements to elements of our facilities to keep our facilities in good operating condition and maintain their visual appeal. Capital expenditures do not include costs relating to the development of new facilities or redevelopment of existing facilities to increase their available rentable square footage. 

Capital expenditures totaled $163.8 million in 2020, and are expected to approximate $250.0 million in 2021. In addition to standard capital repairs of building elements reaching the end of their useful lives, our capital expenditures in recent years have included incremental expenditures to enhance the competitive position of certain of our facilities relative to local competitors pursuant to a multi-year program. Such investments include development of more pronounced, attractive, and clearly identifiable color schemes and signage, upgrades to the configuration and layout of the offices and other customer zones to improve the customer experience. In addition, we have made investments in LED lighting and the installation of solar panels. 

We believe that these incremental investments improve customer satisfaction, the attractiveness and competitiveness of our facilities to new and existing customers and, in the case of LED lighting and solar panels, reduce operating costs. We expect to experience capital expenditures of $250 million to $300 million per year over the next several years. 

Requirement to Pay Distributions: For all periods presented herein, we have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the Code. For each taxable year in which we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will not be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our “REIT taxable income” (generally, taxable income subject to specified adjustments, including a deduction for dividends paid and excluding our net capital gain) that is distributed to our shareholders. We believe we have met these requirements in all periods presented herein, and we expect to continue to qualify as a REIT. 

On February 16, 2021, our Board declared a regular common quarterly dividend of $2.00 per common share totaling approximately $350 million, which will be paid at the end of March 2021. Our consistent, long-term dividend policy has been to distribute only our taxable income. Future quarterly distributions with respect to the common shares will continue to be determined based upon our REIT distribution requirements after taking into consideration distributions to the preferred shareholders and will be funded with cash flows from operating activities. 

We estimate the annual distribution requirements with respect to our Preferred Shares outstanding at December 31, 2020, excluding the Series B Preferred Shares which were redeemed on January 20, 2021 to be approximately $180.7 million per year. 

We estimate we will pay approximately $5.6 million per year in distributions to noncontrolling interests outstanding at December 31, 2020. 

Real Estate Investment Activities: We continue to seek to acquire additional self-storage facilities from third parties. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, we acquired or were under contract to acquire 40 self-storage facilities for a total purchase price of $580.1 million. Twelve of these properties are under construction and expected to close as they are completed in 2021. 

We are actively seeking to acquire additional facilities. However, future acquisition volume will depend upon whether additional owners will be motivated to market their facilities, which will in turn depend upon factors such as economic conditions and the level of seller confidence. 

As of December 31, 2020, we had development and expansion projects at a total cost of approximately $561.4 million. Costs incurred through December 31, 2020 were $188.1 million, with the remaining cost to complete of $373.3 million expected to be incurred primarily in the next 18 to 24 months. Some of these projects are subject to contingencies such as entitlement approval. We expect to continue to seek to add projects to maintain and increase  

56

our robust pipeline. Our ability to do so continues to be challenged by various constraints such as difficulty in finding projects that meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations, and challenges in obtaining building permits for self-storage facilities in certain municipalities.

Redemption of Preferred Securities: Historically, we have taken advantage of refinancing higher coupon preferred securities with lower coupon preferred securities. In the future, we may also elect to finance the redemption of preferred securities with proceeds from the issuance of debt. As of February 24, 2021, we have no series of preferred securities that are eligible for redemption, at our option and with 30 days’ notice. See Note 8 to our December 31, 2020 financial statements for the redemption dates of all of our series of preferred shares. Redemption of such preferred shares will depend upon many factors, including the rate at which we could issue replacement preferred securities. None of our preferred securities are redeemable at the option of the holders. 

Repurchases of Common Shares: Our Board has authorized management to repurchase up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2020, we did not repurchase any of our common shares. From the inception of the repurchase program through February 24, 2021, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million. Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives and the trading price of our common shares.  

57

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk