ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

 Interest Rate Risk

Our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. Our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk is principally our variable rate debt. In 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority announced that after 2021 it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate LIBOR and other interbank offered rates, which have been widely used as reference rates for various securities and financial contracts, including loans, debt and derivatives. However, for U.S dollar LIBOR, the relevant date has been deferred to at least June 30, 2023 for certain tenors, at which time the LIBOR administrator has indicated that it intends to cease publication of U.S. dollar LIBOR. Despite this deferral, the LIBOR administrator has advised that no new contracts using U.S. dollar LIBOR should be entered into after December 31, 2021. These actions indicate that the continuation of U.S. LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after June 30, 2023. Moreover, it is possible that U.S. LIBOR will be discontinued or modified prior to June 30, 2023. In February 2020, in connection with Amendment No. 7 to the Credit Agreement, we amended our Credit Agreement to include a provision for the determination of an alternative reference interest rate. The discontinuation of LIBOR will also require our derivative agreements to be amended. Once the alternative interest rate has replaced LIBOR, our future interest expense could be impacted.

At September 30, 2021, we had borrowings under our term loans of approximately $7,374 million that were subject to interest rate risk. Borrowings under our term loans bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBOR for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. Accordingly, the Company’s cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our term loans. The Company's objective is to maintain an allocation of at least 75% fixed rate and 25% variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. As of September 30, 2021, approximately 86% of our total debt was fixed rate debt. The effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our term loans by approximately $75 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at September 30, 2021. The weighted average interest rate on the $7,374 million of borrowings under our term loans on September 30, 2021 was 3.4%. 

Interest rate swaps and caps used to hedge and offset, respectively, the variable interest rates on the credit facility are described in Note 21, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.

For information about the fair value of the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our term loans and the fair value of the Notes, refer to Note 20, “Fair Value Measurements,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 

 Foreign Currency Risk

Certain of our foreign subsidiaries’ sales and results of operations are subject to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in which we transact business could materially adversely affect our net sales, net income and the carrying values of our assets located outside the U.S. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. Foreign currency forward exchange contracts provide for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies at specified future dates at specified exchange rates, and are used to offset changes in the fair value of certain assets or liabilities or forecasted cash flows resulting from transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The foreign currency forward exchange contracts entered into by the Company are described in Note 21, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 

If the U.S. dollar were to strengthen, our foreign results of operations would be unfavorably impacted, but the effect is not expected to be material. A 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have resulted in a material impact to net income for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA