Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Our financial results are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the various countries in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. For our manufacturing operations, we manage our foreign currency transaction exposures by entering into foreign currency exchange contracts. These contracts generally are used to fix the local currency cost of purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. The notional amount of outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts was $318 million and $342 million at January 2, 2021 and January 4, 2020, respectively. We also may hedge exposures to certain of our foreign currency assets and earnings by funding those asset positions with debt in the same foreign currency so the exposures are naturally offset. 

Interest Rate Risk

Our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates. As part of managing this risk, we seek to achieve a prudent balance between floating- and fixed-rate exposures. We continually monitor our mix of these exposures and adjust the mix, as necessary. For our Finance group, we generally limit our risk to changes in interest rates with a strategy of matching floating-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. This strategy includes the use of interest rate swap agreements. At the end of 2020, we had an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $294 million, which effectively converted certain floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate equivalent.

Quantitative Risk Measures

In the normal course of business, we enter into financial instruments for purposes other than trading. The financial instruments that are subject to market risk include finance receivables (excluding leases), debt (excluding finance lease obligations) and foreign currency exchange contracts. To quantify the market risk inherent in these financial instruments, we utilize a sensitivity analysis that includes a hypothetical change in fair value assuming a 10% decrease in interest rates and a 10% strengthening in foreign exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. The fair value of these financial instruments is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis and indicative market pricing as reported by leading financial news and data providers.

32
At the end of each year, the table below provides the carrying and fair values of these financial instruments along with the sensitivity of fair value to the hypothetical changes discussed above. This sensitivity analysis is most likely not indicative of actual results in the future.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* The value represents an asset or (liability).

33
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data