ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Interest Rates. Our net income is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). The Company's policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. The following table summarizes information related to the Company's interest rate market risk at December 31 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As most recently announced on November 30, 2020, LIBOR is expected to be phased out starting on January 1, 2022 for the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR settings and starting on July 1, 2023 for the remaining USD LIBOR settings. Uncertainty as to the nature of alternative reference rates and as to potential changes or other reforms to LIBOR may adversely impact our interest rates and related interest expense. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had $9.5 billion in variable rate indebtedness. See Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other Liquidity Matters, of this report for more information on interest expense.

A change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2020 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the Company's interest income of approximately $95 million during 2021.

Commodity Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel). The price of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the Company's operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.

Our operational and financial results can be significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. To provide adequate supplies of fuel, the Company routinely enters into purchase contracts that are customarily indexed to market prices for aircraft fuel, and the Company generally has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations. The Company's current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge fuel price volatility, although the Company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. The Company's 2021 forecasted fuel consumption is presently approximately 2.1 billion gallons, and based on this forecast, a one-dollar change in the price of a barrel of crude oil would change the Company's annual fuel expense by approximately $49 million.

Foreign Currency. The Company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Company's results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. Some of the Company's more significant foreign currency exposures include the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, European euro, British pound and Japanese yen. The Company's current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its foreign currency sales, although the Company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors.

The result of a uniform 1% strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2020 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $10 million for the year ending December 31, 2021. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2021 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2020.

50
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.