8-K   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) February 22, 2016

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:

[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

On February 22, 2016, Alliant Energy Corporation (Alliant Energy) issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2015. A copy of such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.

Alliant Energy included in the press release earnings per share from continuing operations, earnings per share, income from continuing operations and net income for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2015 excluding losses from the sales of Interstate Power and Light Company’s (IPL’s) Minnesota electric and gas distribution assets and voluntary employee separation charges. Alliant Energy believes these non-GAAP financial measures (financial measures not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) are useful to investors because they provide an alternate measure to better understand and compare across periods the operating performance of Alliant Energy without the distortion of items that management believes are not normally associated with ongoing operations, and also provide additional information about Alliant Energy’s operations on a basis consistent with the measures that management uses to manage its operations and evaluate its performance. Alliant Energy’s management also uses income from continuing operations, as adjusted, to determine performance-based compensation.

In addition, Alliant Energy included in the press release IPL; Wisconsin Power and Light Company; AE Transco Investments, LLC and Alliant Energy Corporate Services, Inc.; utilities, American Transmission Company LLC and Alliant Energy Corporate Services, Inc.; and non-regulated and parent earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Alliant Energy believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors because they facilitate an understanding of segment performance and trends and provide additional information about Alliant Energy’s operations on a basis consistent with the measures that management uses to manage its operations and evaluate its performance.

Alliant Energy also included in the press release temperature normalized non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Alliant Energy believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because the measures facilitate period-to-period comparison of Alliant Energy’s operating performance and provide investors with information on a basis consistent with measures that management uses to assess Alliant Energy’s earnings growth rate.

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.

(a)Not applicable.

(b)Not applicable.

(c)Not applicable.

(d)Exhibits. The following exhibits are being furnished herewith:

(99.1) Alliant Energy Corporation press release dated February 22, 2016.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

ALLIANT ENERGY CORPORATION

Date: February 22, 2016By:/s/ Robert J. Durian

 Robert J. Durian

 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller

INTERSTATE POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY

Date: February 22, 2016By:/s/ Robert J. Durian

 Robert J. Durian

 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller

WISCONSIN POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY

Date: February 22, 2016By:/s/ Robert J. Durian

 Robert J. Durian

 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller

ALLIANT ENERGY CORPORATION

INTERSTATE POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY

WISCONSIN POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY

Exhibit Index to Current Report on Form 8-K

Dated February 22, 2016

Exhibit Number

(99.1)Alliant Energy Corporation press release dated February 22, 2016.