Exhibit   

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Exhibit 99.1

METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC. REPORTS

FOURTH QUARTER 2015 RESULTS

- - Strong Margin Expansion - -

- - Good Execution - -

COLUMBUS, Ohio, USA - February 4, 2016 - Mettler-Toledo International Inc. (NYSE: MTD) today announced fourth quarter results for 2015. Provided below are the highlights: 

•Sales in local currency increased 3% in the quarter compared with the prior year. Reported sales decreased 3% as currency reduced sales growth by 6% in the quarter.

•Net earnings per diluted share as reported (EPS) were $4.44, compared with $4.17 in the prior- year period. Adjusted EPS was $4.65, an increase of 10% over the prior-year amount of $4.24. Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP measure and excludes purchased intangible amortization, discrete tax items, restructuring charges and other one-time items. A reconciliation to EPS is provided on the last page of the attached schedules. 

Fourth Quarter Results

Olivier Filliol, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, “Market conditions throughout the world developed as expected and we continued to execute very well. Sales growth in the Americas was strong with broad-based growth in most product lines. Europe had good growth in laboratory instruments. Sales declined in China and Brazil, while sales growth in our other emerging markets was solid overall. We had strong margin expansion in the quarter and, despite currency headwinds, achieved solid EPS growth. Finally, we had good cash flow generation in the quarter and for the full year.” 

EPS in the quarter was $4.44, compared with the prior-year amount of $4.17. Adjusted EPS was $4.65, an increase of 10% over the prior-year amount of $4.24. 

Sales were $673.5 million, a 3% increase in local currency sales, compared with $697.4 million in the prior-year quarter. Reported sales decreased 3% as currency reduced sales growth by 6% in the quarter. By region, local currency sales increased 9% in the Americas, were flat in Europe and declined 2% in Asia / Rest of World as compared to the prior-year period. Adjusted operating income amounted to $182.2 million, a 3% increase from the prior-year amount of $176.3 million. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure, and a reconciliation to earnings before taxes is provided in the attached schedules.

Cash flow from operations was $137.0 million, compared with $140.7 million in the prior-year quarter. 

Full Year Results

EPS in 2015 was $12.48, compared with the prior-year amount of $11.44. Adjusted EPS was $12.92, an increase of 10% over the prior-year amount of $11.72. 

Sales were $2.395 billion, a 3% increase in local currency sales, compared with $2.486 billion in the prior-year period. Reported sales decreased 4% as currency reduced sales growth by 7% in the period. By region, local currency sales increased 8% in the Americas, 2% in Europe and were flat in Asia / Rest of World as compared to the prior-year period. Adjusted operating income amounted to $532.1 million, a 5% increase from the prior-year amount of $506.9 million. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure, and a reconciliation to earnings before taxes is provided in the attached schedules.

Cash flow from operations was $426.9 million, compared with $418.9 million in the prior year. 

-1-

Outlook 

The Company updated its outlook for 2016 and noted that forecasting remains challenging. In particular, weak demand in certain emerging markets remains. 

Based on today’s assessment, management anticipates that local currency sales growth in 2016 will be in the range of 3% to 4% and Adjusted EPS is forecasted to be in the range of $14.10 to $14.30, an increase of 9% to 11%. 

For the first quarter 2016, management anticipates that local currency sales growth will be approximately 4% and Adjusted EPS is forecasted to be in the range of $2.40 to $2.45, an increase of 7% to 9%. 

Adjusted EPS excludes purchased intangible amortization, discrete tax items, restructuring charges and other one-time items. While the Company has provided an outlook for Adjusted EPS, it has not provided an outlook for EPS as it would require an estimate of non-recurring items, which are not yet known. 

Conclusion 

Filliol concluded, "Despite considerable market weakness in China, Brazil and Russia and significant currency headwinds, we achieved good financial results in the quarter and for full year 2015. Strong execution of our margin enhancement and productivity improvement programs were key contributors to our performance. We continue to gain share through expanded field resources, exciting new products and proven sales and marketing initiatives. Equally important, we are making investments for long-term growth. While we remain cautious on the global economy, we believe we can continue to generate above market growth in 2016 and beyond.” 

Other Matters

The Company will host a conference call to discuss its quarterly results today (Thursday, February 4) at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. To hear a live webcast or replay of the call, visit the investor relations page on the Company’s website at www.mt.com/investors. The presentation referenced in the conference call will be located on the website prior to the call.

METTLER TOLEDO is a leading global supplier of precision instruments and services. The Company has strong leadership positions in all businesses and believes it holds global number-one market positions in a majority of them. Specifically, METTLER TOLEDO is the largest provider of weighing instruments for use in laboratory, industrial and food retailing applications. The Company is also a leading provider in analytical instruments for use in life science, reaction engineering and real-time analytic systems used in drug and chemical compound development and process analytics instruments used for in-line measurement in production processes. In addition, METTLER TOLEDO is the largest supplier of end-of-line inspection systems used in production and packaging for food, pharmaceutical and other industries. Additional information about METTLER TOLEDO can be found at www.mt.com/investors.

Statements in this press release which are not historical facts constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our or our businesses’ actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see the discussion on forward-looking statements in our current report on Form 8-K to which this release has been furnished as an exhibit. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under the captions “Factors affecting our future operating results” and in the “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections of our annual report on Form 10-K for the most recently completed fiscal year, which describe risks and factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements. 

-2-

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

-3-

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

-4-

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

-5-

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

-6-

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

-7-