UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): 

February 10, 2016 

SL GREEN REALTY CORP. 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  420 Lexington Avenue

 New York, New York       10170   

  (Address of Principal Executive Offices)       (Zip Code)     

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (212) 594-2700 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.): 

o Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

o Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

o Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers. 

Extension of Marc Holliday as Chief Executive Officer 

On February 10, 2016, Marc Holliday and SL Green Realty Corp. (the “Company”) agreed to extend Mr. Holliday’s term as Chief Executive Officer for an additional three years through January 17, 2019. The following summarizes the material terms of the new agreements entered into by the Company and Mr. Holliday in connection with this extension: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

          If the Compensation Committee elects not to grant these awards, Mr. Holliday may terminate his employment and receive the severance benefits noted below, which do not include grants of these awards provided such termination is not in connection with a Change-in-Control.   

  Severance Benefits:       If Mr. Holliday’s employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or by Mr. Holliday for Good Reason during the term, Mr. Holliday will be entitled to the following payments or benefits:      

      Termination Without Change-in-Control       Termination in Connection with Change-in-Control      

· 1x average annual base salary, deferred compensation and bonus 

· Pro-rata bonus for partial year 

· Acceleration of all unvested equity awards (other than OPP awards) and deferred compensation 

· Grant of any contract stock options not previously granted 

· 12 months of benefit continuation payments       

· 3x average annual base salary, deferred compensation and bonus 

· Pro-rata bonus for partial year 

· Acceleration of all unvested equity awards (other than OPP awards) and deferred compensation 

· Grant of any contract stock options and performance-based LTIP units not previously granted 

· 24 months of benefit continuation payments      

  Post-Change-in-Control Salary:       For periods following a Change-in-Control, in lieu of the base salary, annual bonus, deferred compensation and OPP awards described above, Mr. Holliday will be entitled to receive salary payable in cash at a per annum rate equal to the sum of his annual base salary in effect prior to the Change-in-Control plus his annual bonus and the value of his deferred compensation contributions and his equity awards (other than those granted under outperformance plans) that vested during the most recent fiscal year prior to the Change-in-Control.      

  Restrictive Covenants:       Mr. Holliday will not compete with the Company while employed (including after the end of the term of employment if employment continues) and until: (i) 6 months after a termination in connection with a Change-in-Control, (ii) 12 months after a termination of employment upon or after the expiration of the term of employment other than in connection with a Change-in-Control, or (iii) 18 months after termination of employment during the term (except as provided in (i) or (ii) above); provided that the non-compete will not apply if Holliday’s employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or by Holliday for Good Reason and Holliday does not receive all of his contract equity awards on or prior to such termination. Mr. Holliday has also agreed to non-solicitation, non-disparagement and non-interference covenants.      

The terms Cause, Good Reason and Change-in-Control, as used above, are specifically defined in Mr. Holliday’s new employment agreement. The discussion above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the employment agreement by and between the Company and Mr. Holliday and the deferred compensation agreement by and between the Company and Mr. Holliday, which are being filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 and are incorporated herein by reference. 

Extension of Andrew S. Levine as Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel 

On February 10, 2016, Andrew S. Levine and the Company agreed to extend Mr. Levine’s term as Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel for an additional three years through January 1, 2019. The following summarizes the material terms of the new agreement entered into by the Company and Mr. Levine in connection with this extension: 

2 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The terms Cause, Good Reason and Change-in-Control, as used above, are specifically defined in Mr. Levine’s new employment agreement. The discussion above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the employment agreement by and between the Company and Mr. Levine, which is being filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference. 

3 

Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. 

(d) Exhibits 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

4 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Date: February 12, 2016 

5