SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 8-K 

CURRENT REPORT 

PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): 

February 2, 2017 

ALLIANCE DATA SYSTEMS CORPORATION 

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

7500 DALLAS PARKWAY, SUITE 700 

PLANO, TEXAS 75024 

(Address and Zip Code of Principal Executive Offices) 

(214) 494-3000 

(Registrant's Telephone Number, including Area Code) 

NOT APPLICABLE 

(Former name or former address, if changed since last report) 

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions: 

  [ ]     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act   

  [ ]     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act   

  [ ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act   

  [ ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act    

Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. 

On February 2, 2017, Alliance Data Systems Corporation provided to market analysts an IR Update announcing that its Columbus, Ohio-based card services business, a premier provider of branded private label, co-brand, and commercial credit programs, has signed a new long-term agreement to provide private label credit card services for Boot Barn, the nation's leading lifestyle retailer of western and work-related footwear, apparel and accessories for men, women and children. A copy of this IR Update is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. 

Forward Looking Statements 

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements give our expectations or forecasts of future events and can generally be identified by the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "project," "plan," "likely," "may," "should" or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. 

We believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. Forward-looking statements, however, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this release, and no assurances can be given that our expectations will prove to have been correct. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, factors set forth in the Risk Factors section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year, which may be updated in Item 1A of, or elsewhere in, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed for periods subsequent to such Form 10-K. 

Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we undertake no obligation, other than as required by applicable law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events, anticipated or unanticipated circumstances or otherwise. 

Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. 

(d) Exhibits 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The information contained in this report (including Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

EXHIBIT INDEX 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]