Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 28, 2017 (February 28, 2017)

Envision Healthcare Corporation

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(615) 665-1283

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Not Applicable

(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):

[ ]Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

[ ]Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

[ ]Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

[ ]Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition

On February 28, 2017, Envision Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release, the text of which is set forth as Exhibit 99.

Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure

On February 28, 2017, the Company issued a press release, the text of which is set forth as Exhibit 99.

Item 8.01. Other Events

In the press release noted above, the Company also announced that it will explore strategic options for its American Medical Response business (“AMR”) and its Evolution Health population health management service line. The strategic options under consideration include potential joint ventures, other alternative structures, or possible divestiture. AMR is the nation’s largest medical transportation provider, with more than 4.5 million annual patient encounters. Evolution Health is a population health management, and post-acute home health and hospice provider. There can be no assurance that the Company’s exploration of strategic options will result in any such transaction.

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements and information in this report may be deemed to be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the Company’s financial and operating objectives, plans and strategies, and all statements (other than statements of historical facts) that address activities, events or developments that the Company intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. These statements are often characterized by terminology such as “believe,” “hope,” “may,” “anticipate,” “should,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “project,” “positioned,” “explore,” “strategy” and similar expressions, and are based on assumptions and assessments made by the Company’s management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments, and other factors they believe to be appropriate. Any forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no duty to update or revise any such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Whether actual results will conform to expectations and predictions is subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including: (i) risks and uncertainties discussed in the reports and other documents that the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission; (ii) general economic, market, or business conditions; (iii) the impact of legislative or regulatory changes, such as changes to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010; (iv) changes in governmental reimbursement programs; (v) decreases in revenue and profit margin under fee-for-service contracts due to changes in volume, payor mix and reimbursement rates; (vi) the loss of existing contracts; (vii) risks associated with the ability to successfully integrate the Company’s operations and employees following the merger; (viii) the ability to realize anticipated benefits and synergies of the business combination; (ix) the potential impact of the consummation of the transaction on the Company’s relationships, including with employees, customers and competitors; and (x) other circumstances beyond the Company’s control.

Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits

(d) 99 Press release dated February 28, 2017 

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Date: February 28, 2017 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit  

Number Description

99 Press release dated February 28, 2017