EXHIBIT 99.1 

PRESS RELEASE 

MAA Announces Taxable Composition of 2016 Distributions 

Memphis, TN, January 23, 2017. Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. or MAA (NYSE: MAA) today announces the taxable composition of the 2016 distributions paid to shareholders. The company does not expect any portion of the 2016 distributions paid to shareholders to represent a return of capital. The company did not incur any foreign taxes. The composition presented is applicable to all dividend distributions during 2016. The classifications for 2016 are as follows: 

Common Stock (MAA) (CUSIP 59522J103) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

8.5% Series I Cumulative Redeemable Preferred (MAA-PI) (CUSIP 59522J889) 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

This release is based on the preliminary work the company has performed on its filings and is subject to correction or adjustment based on the completion of those filings. Shareholders are encouraged to consult with their personal tax advisors as to their specific tax treatment of these MAA distributions. The company is releasing information at this time to aid those required to distribute 1099s on the company’s dividends. No material change in the taxable composition is expected. 

About MAA 

MAA, an S&P 500 company, is a real estate investment trust focused on delivering full-cycle and superior investment performance for shareholders through the ownership, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of quality apartment communities throughout the United States. As of December 1, 2016, MAA had ownership interest in 101,207 apartment units, including communities currently in development, across 17 states and the District of Columbia. For further details, please visit the MAA website at www.maac.com or contact Investor Relations at investor.relations@maac.com. 

Certain matters in this press release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27-A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements include those made about the expectation that the company will have no material change in taxable composition of its 2016 distributions. The expectation is based on preliminary work the company has performed on its year end filings and on information currently available. Unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results, performance or achievements of the company to differ materially from those on which these calculations were based. Reference is hereby made to the filings of Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, reports on Form 8-K, and its annual report on Form 10-K, particularly including the risk factors contained in the latter filing.