8-K   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C. 20549  

FORM 8-K  

CURRENT REPORT  

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)  

of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 16, 2017  

SPECTRA ENERGY CORP  

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

5400 Westheimer Court  

Houston, Texas 77056  

(Address of principal executive offices)  

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 713-627-5400  

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  

 ☐ Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)  

 ☐ Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)  

 ☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))  

 ☐ Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  

 Item 8.01. Other Events.  

On February 16, 2017, Spectra Energy Corp (the “Company”) and Enbridge Inc. (“Enbridge”) issued a press release announcing that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) has cleared the previously announced proposed combination of the two companies. With this clearance from the FTC, the proposed combination of Enbridge and Spectra Energy has only one remaining regulatory clearance to secure in order to close the transaction – clearance under the Canadian Competition Act. The companies continue to expect closing the transaction in the first quarter this year. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.  

 (d) Exhibits  

Exhibit 

Number    

Exhibit Description 

 99.1   Press release, dated February 16, 2017  

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

This communication includes certain forward looking statements and information (“FLI”) to provide Enbridge and the Company’s shareholders and potential investors with information about Enbridge, the Company and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates, including each company’s management’s respective assessment of Enbridge, the Company and their respective subsidiaries’ future plans and operations, which FLI may not be appropriate for other purposes. FLI is typically identified by words such as “anticipate”, “expect”, “project”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “plan”, “intend”, “target”, “believe”, “likely” and similar words suggesting future outcomes or statements regarding an outlook. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be FLI. In particular, this document contains FLI pertaining to, but not limited to, information with respect to the proposed transaction jointly announced by Enbridge and the Company on September 6, 2016.  

Although we believe that the FLI is reasonable based on the information available today and processes used to prepare it, such statements are not guarantees of future performance and you are cautioned against placing undue reliance on FLI. By its nature, FLI involves a variety of assumptions, which are based upon factors that may be difficult to predict and that may involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, levels of activity and achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these FLI, including, but not limited to, the following: the timing and completion of the transaction, including receipt of regulatory and shareholder approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions precedent; interloper risk; the realization of anticipated benefits and synergies of the transaction and the timing thereof; the success of integration plans; the focus of management time and attention on the transaction and other disruptions arising from the transaction; estimated future dividends; financial strength and flexibility; debt and equity market conditions, including the ability to access capital markets on favorable terms or at all; cost of debt and equity capital; potential changes in the Enbridge share price which may negatively impact the value of consideration offered to shareholders of the Company; expected supply and demand for crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids and renewable energy; prices of crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids and renewable energy; economic and competitive conditions; expected exchange rates; inflation; interest rates; tax rates and changes; completion of growth projects; anticipated in-service dates; capital project funding; success of hedging activities; the ability of management of Enbridge, its subsidiaries and affiliates to execute key priorities, including those in connection with the transaction; availability and price of labor and construction materials; operational performance and reliability; customer, shareholder, regulatory and other stakeholder approvals and support; regulatory and legislative decisions and actions; public opinion; and weather. We caution that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. Additional information about these and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties can be found in applicable filings with Canadian and U.S. securities regulators, including any proxy statement, prospectus or registration statement to be filed in connection with the transaction. Due to the interdependencies and correlation of these factors, as well as other factors, the impact of any one assumption, risk or uncertainty on FLI cannot be determined with certainty.  

Except to the extent required by law, we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise any FLI, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. All FLI in this document is expressly qualified in its entirety by these cautionary statements.  

SIGNATURE  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.  

Dated: February 16, 2017 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

EXHIBIT INDEX  

Exhibit

Number    

Exhibit Description 

 99.1   Press release, dated February 16, 2017