Document   

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 8-K

CURRENT REPORT

Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)January 6, 2017

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The names and addresses of the registrants have not changed since the last report.

This combined Form 8-K is filed separately by two registrants: The Southern Company and Mississippi Power Company. Information contained herein relating to each registrant is filed by each registrant solely on its own behalf. Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating to the other registrant.

Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:

[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)

[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)

[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))

[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

The Southern Company (“Southern Company”) and Mississippi Power Company (“Mississippi Power”) are filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to provide information regarding the schedule and cost estimate for Mississippi Power’s integrated coal gasification combined cycle project in Kemper County, Mississippi (the “Kemper IGCC”).

The information in Item 7.01 in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, such information, including the exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.

Item 7.01.Regulation FD Disclosure.

On January 6, 2017, Mississippi Power submitted its Kemper County Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle Project Monthly Status Report through November 2016 (the “November PSC Report”) to the Mississippi Public Service Commission (the “Mississippi PSC”) pursuant to Docket No. 2009-UA-14. A copy of the November PSC Report is furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. 

Item 8.01.Other Matters.

See MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY - “Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations” of Southern Company, MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL - “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” and - FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY - “Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations” of Mississippi Power, and Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company and Mississippi Power under “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” in 

2

Item 8 of each company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (the “Form 10-K”). See also MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY - “Capital Requirements and Contractual Obligations” of Mississippi Power, MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL - “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” of Mississippi Power, and Note (B) to the Condensed Financial Statements under “Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle” in each company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 (the “Form 10-Q”) for additional information regarding the construction of the Kemper IGCC, including: (1) the cost cap set by the Mississippi PSC of $2.88 billion, net of $245 million of grants awarded to the project by the U.S. Department of Energy under the Clean Coal Power Initiative Round 2 (the “Initial DOE Grants”) and excluding the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the carbon dioxide pipeline facilities, allowance for funds used during construction (“AFUDC”), and certain general exceptions, including change of law, force majeure, and beneficial capital (which exists when Mississippi Power demonstrates that the purpose and effect of the construction cost increase is to produce efficiencies that will result in a neutral or favorable effect on customers relative to the original proposal for the Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity) (the “Cost Cap Exceptions”) and (2) the expected in-service date and related cost estimate.

In connection with the filing of its Kemper County Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle Project Monthly Status Report through October 2016 (the “October PSC Report”), Mississippi Power disclosed that, while it remained possible to meet the previously-projected in-service date of December 31, 2016, it expected the Kemper IGCC to be placed in service during January 2017. Following the filing of the October PSC Report, 

3

Mississippi Power experienced challenges with the gas clean-up systems for gasifier “B”, which have delayed the integrated operation of both gasifiers; however, Mississippi Power continues to expect that the Kemper IGCC will be placed in service by January 31, 2017. The schedule reflects the time expected to complete the integration of all systems necessary for both combustion turbines to simultaneously generate electricity with syngas. 

Mississippi Power has revised its previous cost estimate, which included projected costs through December 31, 2016, to include projected additional schedule costs through January 31, 2017. Accordingly, the November PSC Report contains an increase in the cost estimate subject to the cost cap for the Kemper IGCC of approximately $34 million, including an adjustment of approximately $9 million for the month of November related primarily to modifications, improvements and maintenance for operational readiness and start-up, and approximately $25 million related to the inclusion of projected schedule costs through January 31, 2017. 

The next steps for the facility include the integrated operation of both gasifiers. Each gasifier previously has produced electricity using clean syngas. Sustaining adequate nitrogen supply, among other items, remains a risk to achieving integrated operation of both gasifiers. If integrated operation of both gasifiers does not occur by mid-January, the expected in-service date and related cost estimate for the Kemper IGCC may require further revision. Further cost increases and/or extensions of the expected in-service date may result from factors including, but not limited to, difficulties integrating the systems required for sustained operations, sustaining nitrogen supply, major equipment failure, unforeseen engineering or design problems including any repairs and/or modifications to systems, and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by the Mississippi PSC). Mississippi Power is also identifying potential 

4

improvement projects that ultimately may be completed subsequent to placing the remainder of the Kemper IGCC in service. If completed, such improvement projects would be expected to enhance plant performance, safety and/or operations. The related potential costs have yet to be fully evaluated and may be subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap. Any further changes in the estimated costs of the Kemper IGCC subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the Initial DOE Grants and excluding the Cost Cap Exceptions, will be reflected in Southern Company’s and Mississippi Power’s statements of income and these changes could be material.

Any extension of the in-service date beyond January 31, 2017 is currently estimated to result in additional base costs of approximately $25 million to $35 million per month, which includes maintaining necessary levels of start-up labor, materials, and fuel, as well as operational resources required to execute start-up activities. However, additional costs may be required for remediation of any further equipment and/or design issues identified. Any extension of the in-service date would also increase costs for the Cost Cap Exceptions, which are not subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap established by the Mississippi PSC. These costs include AFUDC, which is currently estimated to total approximately $14 million per month, as well as carrying costs and operating expenses on Kemper IGCC assets placed in service and consulting and legal fees of approximately $3 million per month.

The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.

Exhibit

Exhibit 99.01Kemper County Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle Project Monthly Status Report through November 2016 to the Mississippi Public Service Commission submitted by Mississippi Power Company pursuant to Docket No. 2009-UA-14.

5

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Certain information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the November PSC Report is forward-looking information based on current expectations and plans that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking information includes, among other things, statements concerning the projected cost and schedule for the completion of construction and start-up of the Kemper IGCC. Southern Company and Mississippi Power caution that there are certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information that has been provided. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is not a guarantee of future performance and is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Southern Company and Mississippi Power; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such suggested results will be realized. The following factors, in addition to those discussed in the Form 10-K and subsequent securities filings, could cause actual results to differ materially from management expectations as suggested by such forward-looking information: changes in tax and other laws and regulations to which Mississippi Power is subject as well as changes in application of existing laws and regulations; the ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the development and construction of facilities, which include the development and construction of generating facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed, including changes in labor costs and productivity, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, sustaining nitrogen supply, contractor or supplier delay, non-performance under operating or other agreements, operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs, unforeseen engineering or design problems, start-up activities (including major equipment failure and system integration), and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by the Mississippi PSC); the ability to construct facilities in accordance with the requirements of permits and licenses, to satisfy any environmental performance standards and the requirements of tax credits and other incentives, and to integrate facilities into the Southern Company system upon completion of construction; advances in technology; actions related to cost recovery for the Kemper IGCC, including the ultimate impact of the 2015 decision of the Mississippi Supreme Court, the Mississippi PSC’s December 2015 rate order, and related legal or regulatory proceedings, Mississippi PSC review of the prudence of Kemper IGCC costs and approval of further permanent rate recovery plans, actions relating to proposed securitization, satisfaction of requirements to utilize grants, and the ultimate impact of the termination of the proposed sale of an interest in the Kemper IGCC to South Mississippi Electric Power Association; and the ability of counterparties of Mississippi Power to make payments as and when due and to perform as required. Southern Company and Mississippi Power expressly disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking information.

6

SIGNATURE

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of the registrants has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7