Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated historical financial statements and the notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this report. Our discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth under the section entitled “Risk Factors” elsewhere in this report.

Management Overview

Net sales increased 1.3% in 2019, which was primarily driven by an increase in comparable store sales. We experienced our strongest sales growth in our Midwest, Central and West regions. In addition, our Professional business improved as we continued to open additional branches.

Our diluted earnings per share (“Diluted EPS”) in 2019 was $6.84 compared to $5.73 in 2018. When adjusted for the following non-operational items, our adjusted diluted earnings per share (“Adjusted EPS”) in 2019 was $8.19 compared to $7.13 during 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further details of our comparable adjustments and the usefulness of such measures to investors.

A high-level summary of our financial results and other highlights from 2019 includes:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Refer to “Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further details on our results.

 18
Business Update 

We continue to make progress on the various elements of our strategic business plan, which is focused on improving the customer experience and driving consistent execution for both Professional and “do-it-yourself” (“DIY”) customers. To achieve these improvements, we have undertaken planned strategic initiatives to help build a foundation for long-term success across the organization, which include:

•Development of a demand-based assortment, leveraging purchase and search history from our common catalog, versus our existing push-down supply approach. This technology is a first step in moving from a supply-driven to a demand-driven assortment.

•Advancement towards optimizing our footprint by market to drive share, repurposing our in-market store and asset base and optimizing our distribution centers.

•Continued roll-out of our new Speed Perks 2.0 program to improve customer loyalty and traffic.

•Progress in the development of a more efficient end-to-end supply chain to deliver our broad assortment.

•Enhancement of our DIY omni-channel business, including our eCommerce performance, continued success of the roll-out of our partnership with Walmart.com and the purchase of the DieHard® brand.

•Continued focus on branch openings and expansion of our independent Carquest network to drive Professional growth. 

Industry Update 

Operating within the automotive aftermarket industry, we are influenced by a number of general macroeconomic factors, many of which are similar to those affecting the overall retail industry. These factors include, but are not limited to:

•Fuel costs

•Unemployment rates

•Consumer confidence

•Competition

•Changes in new car sales

•Miles driven

•Vehicle manufacturer warranties

•Average age of vehicles in operation

•Economic and political uncertainty

•Deferral of elective automotive maintenance and improvements in new car quality

While these factors tend to fluctuate, we remain confident in the long-term growth prospects for the automotive parts industry.

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth certain of our operating data expressed as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Table amounts may not foot due to rounding.

 19
2019 Compared to 2018

Net Sales

Net sales for 2019 were $9,709.0 million, an increase of $128.4 million, or 1.3%, from Net sales in 2018. This increase was primarily due to our comparable store sales growth of 1.1%. Our growth in both Net sales and comparable store sales was driven by improvements in our Professional business and increased sales in several product categories, including parts and batteries and accessories and chemicals.

Gross Profit

Gross profit for 2019 was $4,254.7 million, or 43.8% of net sales, as compared to $4,219.4 million, or 44.0% of net sales, in 2018, a decrease of 22 basis points. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily the result of the impact of the launch of our enhanced loyalty program initiatives during 2019, as well as unfavorable adjustments needed to state our inventories at last in, first out. We made an out-of-period correction in 2019, which increased Cost of sales by $13.0 million, related to received not invoiced inventory. These reductions in margin were partially offset by operational productivity relating to our ability to leverage our supply chain and continued improvements in inventory management driven by our Cross Banner Replenishment initiative. 

As a result of changes in our last in, first out (“LIFO”) reserve, an expense of $101.3 million, a credit of $39.8 million and an expense of $2.7 million were included in Cost of Sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017.

Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”)

SG&A for 2019 was $3,577.6 million, or 36.8% of net sales, as compared to $3,615.1 million, or 37.7% of net sales, for 2018, a decrease of 89 basis points. This decrease as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to our continued focus on expense management, as evidenced by a reduction in labor related costs and insurance and claims costs due to our continued focus on Team Member safety. Partially offsetting these improvements, we incurred additional expenses related to information technology as we focus on digital capabilities and integrate our technology platforms across the enterprise and increases in minimum wages and planned merit increases.

Interest expense

Interest expense for 2019 was $39.9 million, a decrease of $16.7 million when compared to 2018. This decrease was primarily due to the early redemption of our 2020 senior unsecured notes. Refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further details.

Other income, net

Other income, net for 2019 was $0.5 million, a decrease of $7.1 million when compared to 2018. This decrease was primarily due to incurred charges relating to a make-whole provision and debt issuance costs of $10.1 million and $0.7 million resulting from the early redemption of our 5.75% senior unsecured notes due 2020 (“2020 Notes”).

Provision for income taxes

Our Provision for income taxes for 2019 was $150.9 million, as compared to $131.4 million for 2018, an increase of $19.4 million primarily due to an increase in taxable income. Our effective tax rate was 23.7% for 2019 and 2018. While our effective tax rate remained essentially flat from 2019 to 2018, we recognized non-recurring benefits in both years. During 2019, we recognized a benefit relating to a release of a valuation allowance that was previously established against the deferred tax asset related to our federal foreign tax credit carryforward. During 2018, we identified a change in estimate to amounts previously estimated in 2017 for the remeasurement of the net deferred tax liability and nonrecurring repatriation tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that resulted in a net tax benefit of $5.7 million. 

2018 Compared to 2017

A discussion of changes in our results of operations in 2018 compared to 2017 has been omitted from this Form10-K, but may be found in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 19, 2019, which is available free of 

 20
charge on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and at www.AdvanceAutoParts.com, by clicking “Investor Relations” located at the bottom of the home page, and is incorporated by reference herein.

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” includes certain financial measures not derived in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Non-GAAP financial measures, including Adjusted net income and Adjusted EPS, should not be used as a substitute for GAAP financial measures, or considered in isolation, for the purpose of analyzing our operating performance, financial position or cash flows. We have presented these non-GAAP financial measures as we believe that the presentation of our financial results that exclude (1) transformation expenses under our strategic business plan; (2) non-operational expenses associated with the integration of GPI and store closure and consolidation; (3) non-cash amortization related to the acquired GPI intangible assets; (4) other non-recurring adjustments; and (5) nonrecurring impact of the Act, is useful and indicative of our base operations because the expenses vary from period to period in terms of size, nature and significance and/or relate to the integration of GPI and store closure and consolidation activity in excess of historical levels. These measures assist in comparing our current operating results with past periods and with the operational performance of other companies in our industry. The disclosure of these measures allows investors to evaluate our performance using the same measures management uses in developing internal budgets and forecasts and in evaluating management’s compensation. Included below is a description of the expenses we have determined are not normal, recurring cash operating expenses necessary to operate our business and the rationale for why providing these measures is useful to investors as a supplement to the GAAP measures.

Transformation Expenses — We expect to recognize a significant amount of transformation expenses over the next several years in connection with our business plan that involves a holistic and integrated transformation of the entire Company. These expenses will include, but not be limited to, restructuring costs, store closure costs and third-party professional services and other significant costs to integrate and streamline our operating structure across the enterprise. We are focused on several areas throughout Advance, such as supply chain and information technology.

GPI Integration and Store Closure and Consolidation Expenses — Our multi-year plan to integrate the operations of GPI that we acquired in 2014 with Advance, substantially ended in 2018. Due to the size of this acquisition, we considered these expenses to be outside of our base business. We believed providing additional information in the form of non-GAAP measures that excluded these costs was beneficial to the users of our financial statements in evaluating the operating performance of our base business and our sustainability once the integration was complete. In addition to integration expenses, we incurred store closure and consolidation expenses that consisted of expenses associated with our plans to convert and consolidate the Carquest stores acquired from GPI. While periodic store closures are common, these closures represented a significant program outside of our typical market evaluation process. We believe it was useful to provide additional non-GAAP measures that excluded these costs to provide investors greater comparability of our base business and core operating performance. 

GPI Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets — As part of our acquisition of GPI, we obtained various intangible assets, including customer relationships, non-compete contracts and favorable leases agreements, which we expect to be subject to amortization through 2025.

U.S. Tax Reform — On December 22, 2017, the Act was signed into law. The Act amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by, among other things, permanently lowering the corporate tax rate to 21% from the existing maximum rate of 35%, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. During 2018, and in conjunction with the completion of our 2017 U.S. income tax return, we identified a change in estimate, in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, to amounts previously estimated for the remeasurement of the net deferred tax liability and nonrecurring repatriation tax on accumulated earnings foreign subsidiaries. Our analysis under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 is complete.

 21
We have included a reconciliation of this information to the most comparable GAAP measures in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) During 2019, we made an out-of-period correction, which increased Cost of sales by $13.0 million, related to received not invoiced inventory.

(2) During 2019, we incurred charges relating to a make-whole provision and debt issuance costs of $10.1 million and $0.7 million resulting from the early redemption of our 2020 Notes. For further information, see Note 6, Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this report.

(3) The income tax impact of non-GAAP adjustments is calculated using the estimated tax rate in effect for the respective non-GAAP adjustments.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Overview

Our primary cash requirements necessary to maintain our current operations include payroll and benefits, inventory purchases, contractual obligations, capital expenditures, payment of income taxes and funding of initiatives under our strategic business plan. In addition, we may use available funds for acquisitions, to repay borrowings under our credit agreement, to periodically repurchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs and for the payment of quarterly cash dividends. Historically, we have funded these requirements primarily through cash generated from operations, supplemented by borrowings under our credit facilities and debt securities as needed. We believe funds generated from our expected results of operations, available cash and cash equivalents, and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our primary obligations for the next year.

Capital Expenditures

Our primary capital requirements have been the funding of our investments in supply chain and information technology, e-commerce and maintenance of existing stores and branches. We lease approximately 84% of our stores and branches. 

Our capital expenditures were $270.1 million in 2019, an increase of $76.4 million from 2018. This increase in capital expenditures related to several information technology projects, including our Finance enterprise resource planning system, as well as investments in supply chain and store improvements.

 22
Our future capital requirements will depend in large part on the timing or number of the investments we make in information technology and supply chain network initiatives and existing stores and new store development (leased and owned locations) within a given year. In 2020, we anticipate that our capital expenditures related to such investments will range from $275 million to $325 million, but may vary with business conditions. 

Analysis of Cash Flows

The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

For 2019, net cash provided by operating activities increased $55.9 million to $866.9 million. The net increase in operating cash flows compared to the prior year was primarily driven by an increase in Net income, which was partially offset by a decrease in working capital. Refer to “Results of Operations” for further details on our results.

For 2018, net cash provided by operating activities increased $210.2 million to $811.0 million. The net increase in operating cash flows compared to the prior year was primarily driven by our focus on working capital management, including an increase in Accounts payable, partially offset by increases in Receivables, net and Inventories.

Investing Activities

For 2019, net cash used in investing activities increased by $271.1 million to $462.9 million compared to 2018. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by an increase in capital expenditures related to several IT projects, including our Finance enterprise resource planning system, as well as investments in supply chain, e-commerce and store improvements. In addition, on December 23, 2019, we purchased the DieHard® brand for a cash purchase price of $200.0 million. This purchase gives us the right to sell DieHard® batteries and enables us to extend the DieHard® brand into other automotive and vehicular categories.

For 2018, net cash used in investing activities increased by $13.2 million to $191.8 million compared to 2017. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by an increase in capital expenditures related to several information technology projects, including our Finance enterprise resource planning system, as well as investments in supply chain, e-commerce and store improvements.

Financing Activities

For 2019, net cash used in financing activities increased by $618.2 million to $882.2 million compared to 2018. This increase was primarily a result of returning cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends, as well as on February 28, 2019, we redeemed all $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 2020 Notes. We incurred charges relating to a make-whole provision and debt issuance costs of $10.1 million and $0.7 million resulting from the early redemption of our 2020 Notes.

For 2018, net cash used in financing activities increased by $249.0 million to $263.9 million compared to 2017. This increase was primarily a result of returning cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends.

Our Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend since 2006. Any payments of dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. On February 12, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share to be paid on April 3, 2020 to all common shareholders of record as of March 20, 2020.

 23
Long-Term Debt

As of December 28, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement, our borrowing availability was $1.0 billion and we had a credit rating from Standard & Poor’s of BBB- and from Moody’s Investor Service of Baa2. The current outlooks by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s are both stable. The current pricing grid used to determine our borrowing rate under our revolving credit facility is based on our credit ratings. If these credit ratings decline, our interest rate on outstanding balances may increase and our access to additional financing on favorable terms may become more limited. In addition, it could reduce the attractiveness of certain vendor payment programs whereby third-party institutions finance arrangements to our vendors based on our credit rating, which could result in increased working capital requirements. Conversely, if these credit ratings improve, our interest rate may decrease.

On February 28, 2019, we redeemed all $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2020 Notes that were issued in April 2010 at 99.587% of the principal amount. We incurred charges relating to a make-whole provision and debt issuance costs of $10.1 million and $0.7 million resulting from the early redemption of our 2020 Notes, which are included in Other (expense) income, net in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.

Share Repurchases 

On August 7, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a $400.0 million share repurchase program to replace the previous $600.0 million share repurchase program that was authorized by our Board of Directors in August 2018, which had $49.1 million remaining at the time of its replacement. On November 8, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized $700.0 million as an addition to the existing share repurchase program.

During 2019 and in connection with our share repurchase programs, we repurchased 3.4 million shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $487.4 million. We had $890.8 million remaining under our stock repurchase program as of December 28, 2019. 

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements 

As of December 28, 2019, other than as disclosed in Note 6, Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Note 8, Leases and Other Commitments, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, we had no other off-balance-sheet arrangements. We include other off-balance-sheet arrangements in our Contractual Obligations table including interest payments on our senior unsecured notes, revolving credit facility and letters of credit outstanding.

 24
Contractual Obligations

In addition to our senior unsecured notes and revolving credit facility, we utilize operating leases as another source of financing. The amounts payable under these operating leases are included in our Contractual Obligations table. Our future contractual obligations related to long-term debt, operating leases and other contractual obligations as of December 28, 2019 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: For additional information refer to Note 6, Long-term Debt and Fair Value of Financial Instruments; Note 8, Lease and other Commitments; Note 12, Income Taxes; Note 13, Contingencies; and Note 14, Benefit Plans, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. 

(1) Long-term debt represents the principal amount of our senior unsecured notes, which become due in 2022 and 2023. 

(2) We lease certain store locations, distribution centers, office space, equipment and vehicles. Our property leases generally contain renewal and escalation clauses and other concessions. These provisions are considered in our calculation of our minimum lease payments that are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the applicable lease term. Any lease payments that are based upon an existing index or rate are included in our minimum lease payment calculations. 

(3) Includes the long-term portion of deferred income taxes and other liabilities, including self-insurance reserves for which no contractual payment schedule exists. As we expect the payments to occur beyond 12 months from December 28, 2019, the related balances have not been reflected in the “Payments Due by Period” section of the table. 

(4) Purchase commitments include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Included in the table above is the lesser of the remaining obligation or the cancellation penalty under the agreement. 

Critical Accounting Policies

Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations are based on these financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires the application of accounting policies in addition to certain estimates and judgments by our management. Our estimates and judgments are based on currently available information, historical results and other assumptions we believe are reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. 

The preparation of our financial statements included the following significant estimates and exercise of judgment. 

Vendor Incentives 

We receive incentives in the form of reductions to amounts owed and/or payments from vendors related to volume rebates and other promotional considerations. Many of these incentives are under agreements with terms in excess of one year, while others are negotiated on an annual basis or less. Volume rebates and vendor promotional allowances are earned based on inventory purchases and initially recorded as a reduction to inventory, except for amounts that are offset in SG&A when circumstances exist as described below. These deferred amounts are recorded as a reduction to cost of sales as the inventory is sold.

 25
Vendor promotional allowances provided as a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to promote a vendor’s products are included as an offset to SG&A when the cost is incurred if the fair value of that benefit can be reasonably estimated. Certain of our vendor agreements contain purchase volume incentives that provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are met. Amounts accrued throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected annual purchase volumes. 

Similarly, we recognize other promotional incentives earned under long-term agreements as a reduction to cost of sales. However, these incentives are recognized based on the cumulative net purchases as a percentage of total estimated net purchases over the life of the agreement. Short-term incentives with terms less than one year are generally recognized as a reduction to cost of sales over the duration of the agreements.

Amounts received or receivable from vendors that are not yet earned are reflected as deferred revenue. Our estimate of the portion of deferred revenue that will be realized within one year of the balance sheet date is included in Other current liabilities. Earned amounts that are receivable from vendors are included in Receivables, net except for that portion expected to be received after one year, which is included in Other assets, net. We regularly review the receivables from vendors to ensure they are able to meet their obligations. Historically, the change in our reserve for receivables related to vendor funding has not been significant. 

Self-Insurance Reserves

Our self-insurance reserves consist of the estimated exposure for claims filed, claims incurred but not yet reported and projected future claims, and are established using actuarial methods followed in the insurance industry and our historical claims experience. Specific factors include, but are not limited to, assumptions about health care costs, the severity of accidents and the incidence of illness and the average size of claims. Generally, claims for automobile and general liability and workers’ compensation take several years to settle. We classify the portion of our self-insurance reserves that is not expected to be settled within one year in long-term liabilities.

While we do not expect the amounts ultimately paid to differ significantly from our estimates, our self-insurance reserves and corresponding SG&A could be affected if future claim experience differs significantly from historical trends and actuarial assumptions. A 10% change in our self-insurance liabilities at December 28, 2019 would result in a change in expense of approximately $15.1 million for 2019.

New Accounting Pronouncements

For a description of recently adopted and issued accounting standards, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see “Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements” in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.

 26
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks.