Part I

ITEM 1 | Business

American International Group, Inc. (AIG) 

is a leading global insurance organization. Building on our long history, we provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement solutions, and other financial services to customers in more than 80 countries and jurisdictions. These diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 

The impact of the steps that we took in 2018 and 2019 is evident in 2019’s financial performance. The improvement in General Insurance yielded full-year underwriting profitability and Life and Retirement continued to deliver solid returns despite narrowing credit spreads and the ongoing low interest rate environment. We plan to build on this momentum in 2020 to deliver strong financial results and further AIG’s position as a leading global insurance company.

In this Annual Report, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms “AIG,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term “AIG Parent” to refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 3
ITEM 1 | Business | AIG

Maximizing Industry Leadership and Global Footprint

About AIG

World Class Insurance Franchises

that are among the leaders in their geographies and segmentations, providing differentiated service and expertise.

Breadth of Loyal Customers

including millions of clients and policyholders ranging from multi-national Fortune 500 companies to individuals throughout the world.

Broad and Long-Standing Distribution Relationships

with brokers, agents, advisors, banks and other distributors across all lines of business.

Highly-Engaged Global Workforce

of approximately 46,000 employees in more than 80 countries and jurisdictions.

Balance Sheet Quality and Strength

as demonstrated by over $65 billion in shareholders’ equity and AIG Parent liquidity sources of $12.1 billion as of December 31, 2019.

Creating Value Through Profitable Growth and Instilling a Culture of Underwriting and Operational Excellence[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2019 Highlights

General Insurance Achieved Calendar Year Underwriting Profitability 

2019 Calendar Year Combined Ratio of 99.6 compared to 111.4 in 2018 and 2019 Accident Year Combined Ratio, As Adjusted of 96.0 compared to 99.7 in 2018*

Underwriting profitability delivered through continued underwriting actions taken to strengthen our portfolio and to maintain pricing, reinsurance and expense discipline

Life and Retirement Continued to Deliver Solid Returns 

Full-Year 2019 Adjusted Pre-tax Income of $3.5 billion compared to $3.2 billion in 2018

Results reflected ongoing strategy to leverage our broad product portfolio and diverse distribution network to satisfy customer needs

Efficient Management of Legacy Portfolio

On November 25, 2019, we announced an agreement to sell a controlling financial interest in Fortitude Group Holdings, LLC (Fortitude Holdings), the reinsurer of the majority of AIG’s Legacy Portfolio, which we anticipate closing in mid-2020, subject to regulatory approvals**

Growth in Net Investment Income 

Full-Year 2019 Consolidated Net Investment Income of $14.6 billion compared to $12.5 billion in 2018

*Non-GAAP measure – for reconciliation of Non-GAAP to GAAP measure see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A).

**For further discussion on the Fortitude Holdings transaction see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

4 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K
ITEM 1 | Business | AIG

AIG’s Operating Structure

Our Core businesses include General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. General Insurance consists of two operating segments – North America and International. Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments – Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets. Blackboard U.S. Holdings, Inc. (Blackboard), AIG’s technology-driven subsidiary, is reported within Other Operations. We also report a Legacy Portfolio consisting of our run-off insurance lines and legacy investments that we consider non-core. Effective February 2018, our Bermuda-domiciled composite reinsurer, Fortitude Reinsurance Company Ltd (Fortitude Re) is included in our Legacy Portfolio. In November 2019, we announced the sale of a controlling financial interest in Fortitude Holdings, the holding company for Fortitude Re. There can be no guarantee that we will receive the required regulatory approvals or that closing conditions will be satisfied in order to consummate the November 2019 transaction.

Consistent with how we manage our business, our General Insurance North America operating segment primarily includes insurance businesses in the United States, Canada and Bermuda. Our General Insurance International operating segment includes regional insurance businesses in Japan, the United Kingdom, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Caribbean, Middle East and Africa, and China. General Insurance results are presented before consideration of internal reinsurance agreements.

For further discussion on our business segments see Item 7. MD&A and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Business Segments[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 5
ITEM 1 | Business | AIG

Diversified Mix of Businesses

(dollars in millions) 

*Our Total revenues were $49.7 billion in 2019. The graph above represents Adjusted revenues excluding revenues from our Legacy Portfolio operations of $3.0 billion. For reconciliation of Adjusted revenues to Total revenues see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Geographic Concentration

In 2019, 5.6 percent of our property casualty direct premiums were written in the state of California, and 15.3 percent and 6.9 percent were written in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign jurisdiction accounted for more than five percent of our property casualty direct premiums.

For further information on our business segments see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

6 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K
ITEM 1 | Business | AIG

How We Generate Revenues and Profitability

We earn revenues primarily from insurance premiums, policy fees and income from investments. 

Our expenses consist of policyholder benefits and losses incurred, interest credited to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our products, interest expense and general operating expenses.

Our profitability is dependent on our ability to properly price and manage risk on insurance and annuity products, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively and to control costs through expense discipline. 

Investment Activities of Our Insurance Operations

Our insurance companies generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these premiums and deposits to generate net investment income that, along with the invested funds, is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities.

The practice for managing the investments of the insurance companies places primary emphasis on meeting the specific needs of each business unit. The investment objectives are generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus to support the insurance products. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies, as well as structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate and commercial mortgage loans.

For additional discussion of investment strategies see Item 7. MD&A — Investments.

Loss Reserve Development Process

The liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (loss reserves) represents the accumulation of estimates for unpaid claims, including estimates for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) for our General Insurance companies, including the related expenses of settling those losses.

The process of establishing loss reserves is complex and imprecise because it must take into consideration many variables that are subject to the outcome of future events. As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process. Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These changes are sometimes referred to as “prior year loss development” or “reserve development.”

For further discussion on loss reserves and of prior year loss development see Item 7. MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Insurance Liabilities — Loss Reserves, Item 7. MD&A — Insurance Reserves — Loss Reserves, and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our Employees

We believe that a major strength of AIG is the dedication, commitment and loyalty of our colleagues. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had approximately 46,000 and 49,600 employees, respectively. We believe that our relations with our colleagues are good. 

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 7
ITEM 1 | Business

Regulation

OVERVIEW

Our operations around the world are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, derivatives, investment advisory and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad. The insurance and financial services industries generally have been subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision since the financial crisis.

Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and other jurisdictions in which they do business. We expect that the domestic and international regulations applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future.

U.S. REGULATION

Dodd-Frank

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which brought about the most extensive changes to financial regulation in the United States in many years, was signed into law. On July 8, 2013, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) made a determination that material financial distress at AIG could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. On September 29, 2017, the Council rescinded its determination that material financial distress at AIG could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability and as a result, AIG is no longer designated as a nonbank systemically important financial institution (nonbank SIFI). With the rescission of its designation as a nonbank SIFI, AIG is no longer subject to the consolidated supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) or subject to the enhanced prudential standards set forth in Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations. Although the Council has rescinded its designation of AIG as a nonbank SIFI, certain provisions of Dodd-Frank remain relevant to insurance groups generally.

The Council has authority to determine, subject to certain statutory and regulatory standards, that any nonbank financial company be designated as a nonbank SIFI subject to supervision by the FRB and enhanced prudential standards. The Council may also recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices that nonbank financial services companies, including insurers, engage in. 

Title II of Dodd-Frank (Orderly Liquidation Authority) provides that a financial company whose largest United States subsidiary is an insurer may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the Bankruptcy Code. That process is to be administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation upon a determination that the company is: (i) in default or in danger of default, (ii) would have serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability were it to fail and be resolved, (iii) is not likely to attract private sector alternatives to default and (iv) is not suitable for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. Dodd-Frank authorizes possible assessments to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II. U.S. insurance subsidiaries of any such financial company, however, would be subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state insurance law. 

Title VII of Dodd-Frank provides for significantly increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that have affected and, as additional regulations come into effect, could affect various activities of insurance and other financial services companies, including (i) regulatory reporting for swaps and security-based swaps, (ii) mandated clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated swap execution facilities for certain swaps and security-based swaps and (iii) margin and collateral requirements. Although the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), which oversees and regulates the U.S. swap, commodities and futures markets, has finalized most of its requirements, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has yet to finalize the majority of rules comprising its security-based swap regulatory regime. Increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions could increase the cost of our trading and hedging activities, reduce liquidity and reduce the availability of customized hedging solutions and derivatives.

Dodd-Frank mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts should be included in the definition of "swap." If that study concludes that stable value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain federal regulators to determine whether an exemption from the definition of a swap for stable value contracts is appropriate and in the public interest. Certain of our affiliates participate in the stable value contract business. We cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the aforementioned study or be promulgated applicable to this business in the future.

8 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K
ITEM 1 | Business

Title V of Dodd-Frank authorizes the United States to enter into covered agreements with foreign governments or regulatory entities regarding the business of insurance and reinsurance. On September 22, 2017, the U.S. and the European Union (EU) entered into such an agreement, and on December 18, 2018, the U.S. signed a covered agreement with the United Kingdom (UK) in anticipation of the UK’s withdrawal of its membership in the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. For additional information, see — International Regulation.

Dodd-Frank established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (BCFP), an independent agency within the FRB, to regulate certain non-insurance consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. Insurance products and services are not within the BCFP's general jurisdiction. Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the BCFP's jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity. 

Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) to serve as the central insurance authority in the federal government. While not serving a regulatory function, FIO performs certain duties related to the business of insurance. FIO serves as a non-voting member of the Council, has authority to collect information on the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards, monitors market access issues, represents the United States in international insurance forums, has authority to determine, after consulting with the relevant State and the United States Trade Representative, if certain regulations are preempted by covered agreements, and assists the Secretary of the Treasury in administering the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002.

On February 3, 2017, the President of the United States signed an Executive Order that directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with federal financial regulators, to assess all laws, rules and policies that regulate the U.S. financial system, including requirements put into place under Dodd-Frank since 2010, and to recommend necessary changes to make sure they conform to certain core principles. Treasury divided its review into four parts and published four reports: Banks and Credit Unions (June 12, 2017), Capital Markets (October 6, 2017), Asset Management and Insurance (October 26, 2017) and Nonbank Financials, Fintech and Innovation (July 31, 2018). In its report on insurance regulation, Treasury identified several areas for improvement at the federal and state levels and defined the role it intends for federal agencies. Among the points made in the report: 

Treasury expressed support for an activities-based approach to regulating systemic risk in the insurance industry rather than designating individual entities; 

Treasury recommended continued U.S. engagement in international standard-setting forums and charged FIO with coordinating the efforts of the federal government, state regulators, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), and other stakeholders on the issues within its scope, such as covered agreements, matters related to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program, and standard-setting at the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), including discussions regarding capital and liquidity requirements; 

Treasury expressed support for robust liquidity risk management programs for insurers and encouraged regulators to continue work on addressing potential liquidity risk in the insurance sector; and 

Treasury supported the Department of Labor (the DOL) in delaying full implementation of the final fiduciary rule issued by the DOL in April 2016 (the DOL Fiduciary Rule) until relevant issues are further evaluated and addressed by the DOL, SEC, and state insurance regulators working together. The DOL Fiduciary Rule was subsequently vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. For additional information regarding legislative and regulatory developments surrounding a standard of care for the sale of investment products and services, see U.S. Regulation – ERISA and – Standard of Care Developments below. 

In addition, on April 21, 2017 the President of the United States directed the Secretary of the Treasury to evaluate and provide recommendations regarding the Council’s processes for designating nonbank SIFIs. The Treasury published a report pursuant to this directive on November 17, 2017, recommending that the Council prioritize an activities-based approach to regulating systemic risk rather than designating individual entities, and recommending that the Council increase the analytical rigor of its designation analyses, enhance engagement with relevant regulators and transparency to the public, and provide a clear off-ramp to designated nonbank SIFIs. On December 4, 2019, the Council finalized amendments to its guidance on nonbank financial company designations. The new guidance prioritizes an activities-based approach to monitoring and addressing potential systemic risk, and indicates that the Council will pursue entity specific SIFI designations only if a potential risk or threat cannot be adequately addressed through an activities-based approach. The guidance became effective on January 29, 2020. We will monitor developments resulting from these changes.

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 9
ITEM 1 | Business

Insurance Regulation

Certain states and other jurisdictions require registration and periodic reporting by (re)insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and prior approval of intercompany transactions and transfers of assets, including in some instances payment of dividends by the (re)insurance subsidiary, within the holding company system. This legislation also requires any person or entity desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10 percent) of our outstanding voting securities to obtain regulatory approval prior to such purchase. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those jurisdictions that have such requirements. 

Our U.S. (re)insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and other jurisdictions in which they do business. The method of such regulation varies but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to a state insurance official. The regulation and supervision relate primarily to the financial condition of the insurers and their corporate conduct and market conduct activities. This includes approval of policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, including with respect to risk-based capital, the standards on transactions between (re)insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates, including restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by (re)insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, the licensing of insurers and their agents, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of (re)insurance companies, the form and content of reports of financial condition required to be filed, reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes and enterprise risk management and corporate governance requirements. Our (re)insurance subsidiaries are also subject to requirements on investments, which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments they can make. In general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than the creditors or equity owners of these companies. 

U.S. states have state insurance guaranty associations in which insurers doing business in the state are required by law to be members. Member insurers may be assessed by the associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess member insurers in amounts related to the member’s proportionate share of the relevant type of business written by all members in the state. The protection afforded by a state’s guaranty association to policyholders of insolvent insurers varies from state to state.

In the U.S., the NAIC is a standard-setting and regulatory support organization created and governed by the chief insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. The NAIC itself is not a regulator, but, with assistance from the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer review and coordinate regulatory oversight. Every state has adopted, in substantial part, the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Model Law promulgated by the NAIC or a substantially similar law, which allows states to act upon the results of RBC calculations, and provides four incremental levels of regulatory action regarding insurers whose RBC calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those levels of action range from the requirement to submit a plan describing how an insurer would regain a specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The RBC formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business and computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to various asset, premium, reserve and other financial statement items. These factors are developed to be risk-sensitive so that higher factors are applied to items exposed to greater risk. The statutory surplus of each of our U.S. based (re)insurance companies exceeded RBC minimum required levels as of December 31, 2019.

If any of our (re)insurance entities fell below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital or other types of support to that entity. For additional information, see Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries – Insurance Companies.

The NAIC’s Model Regulation “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies” (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary guarantees (ULSGs). NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to these guarantees, including certain ULSGs. In December 2012, the NAIC approved a new Valuation Manual (VM) containing a principle-based approach to life insurance company reserves. Principle-based reserving (PBR) is designed to tailor the reserving process to more closely reflect the risks of specific products, rather than the factor-based approach typically employed historically. The VM became effective on January 1, 2017, after revisions to the NAIC’s model Standard Valuation Law were enacted by the requisite number of states, representing the required premium volume. Variable Annuity (VA) reserving requirements are contained in subsection 21 of the VM (VM-21), and replace the previous Actuarial Guideline XLVIII (AG 43) requirements, which also employed a principle-based approach. Substantial revisions to VM-21 have been adopted effective January 1, 2020, with options for early adoption or phased-in adoption. We have not elected either of these adoptions, and instead have applied VM-21 in full, effective January 1, 2020, to both new and existing VA business. VM-21 is also referred to as “VA PBR”. Subsection 20 of the Valuation Manual (VM-20) applies to individual life insurance reserves, most notably term insurance and universal life with secondary

10 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K
ITEM 1 | Business

guarantees (ULSG). VM-20 is also referred to as “Life PBR”, and replaces Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX for new life insurance business issued after January 1, 2017. As permitted by applicable regulations, we deferred implementation of Life PBR until January 1, 2020, and have implemented it as of such date with respect to relevant policies issued on or after January 1, 2020. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for risk and additional information related to these statutory reserving requirements.

The NAIC’s Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act (the Model Holding Company Act) and the Insurance Holding Company System Model Regulation include (i) provisions authorizing NAIC commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups and participate in international supervisory colleges, and (ii) the requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual enterprise risk report with its lead state regulator identifying risks likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of its licensed insurers or the insurance holding company system as a whole. All of the states where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the revised Model Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting requirement.

The NAIC’s Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (ORSA) requires that insurers maintain a risk management framework and conduct an internal own risk and solvency assessment of the insurer’s material risks in normal and stressed environments. All of the states where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of ORSA.

ERISA 

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), and/or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code). Plans subject to ERISA include certain pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. As a result, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code are subject to enforcement by the DOL, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. 

Standard of Care Developments

In our Life and Retirement business, we and our distributors are subject to laws and regulations regarding the standard of care applicable to sales of our products and the provision of advice to our customers. In recent years, many of these laws and regulations have been revised or reexamined while others have been newly adopted. We continue to closely follow these legislative and regulatory activities. Changes in standard of care requirements or new standards issued by governmental authorities, such as the DOL, the SEC, the NAIC or state regulators and/or legislators, may affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition.

DOL Fiduciary Rule

In June 2018, a Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals decision became effective vacating the DOL Fiduciary Rule that redefined who would be considered a “fiduciary” for purposes of transactions with ERISA qualified plans, related plan participants and Individual Retirement Accounts. Before it was vacated, the uncertainty in the annuity market around the impact and implementation of the DOL Fiduciary Rule had negatively impacted industry sales of annuity products, including those offered by Individual Retirement. The DOL has indicated that it plans to issue a revised fiduciary rule package to replace the DOL Fiduciary Rule vacated by the Fifth Circuit. At this time, we cannot predict whether or when the DOL will promulgate any new fiduciary regulation, the scope or substance of such regulation, the impact such regulation may have on our businesses and operations, or how such regulation may work in conjunction with other similarly proposed and/or enacted laws and regulations.

SEC Best Interest Regulation 

In June 2019, the SEC adopted a package of final rulemakings and interpretations, which include Regulation Best Interest (Regulation BI) and the creation of a new disclosure tool called Form CRS Relationship Summary (Form CRS). Regulation BI establishes new rules regarding the standard of care a broker must meet when making a recommendation to a retail customer in connection with the sale of a security or other covered recommendation. Form CRS requires enhanced disclosure by broker-dealers and investment advisors regarding client relationships and certain conflicts of interest issues. The compliance date for Regulation BI and Form CRS is June 30, 2020.

At the same time, the SEC issued two interpretations under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The first addressed the standard of conduct applicable to SEC-registered investment advisors, including details regarding the fiduciary duty owed to clients, required disclosures and the advisor’s continuous monitoring obligations. The second interpretation clarified when investment advice would be considered “solely incidental” to brokerage activity for purposes of the broker-dealer exclusion from SEC investment advisor registration. These two SEC interpretations became final upon publication. The SEC has recently issued FAQs on certain aspects of

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 11
ITEM 1 | Business

Regulation BI and Form CRS, and we expect that it will continue to provide guidance regarding these final rules and will further clarify its interpretations through the issuance of additional FAQs and other publications. We continue to evaluate the full impact of this package of final rulemakings and interpretations on us and our customers, distribution partners and financial advisors, while preparing for compliance with them. We will implement and enhance processes and procedures, where needed, to comply with the final rules and interpretations. 

State Developments

The NAIC has been working on revisions to the Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Regulation (#275), related to the standard of care that would be applicable in a sale or recommendation of an annuity. The proposed revisions were adopted by NAIC’s Life Insurance and Annuities (A) Committee at the end of December 2019, with final approval expected by the NAIC Executive/Plenary Committee. Amendments to this NAIC model regulation could ultimately form the basis of amendments to state insurance law suitability rules applicable to our business. 

In addition, certain state regulators and legislatures have already adopted, or are considering adoption of, best interest standards. For example, in July 2018, the NYDFS adopted a best interest standard of care regulation applicable to annuity and life transactions through issuance of the First Amendment to Insurance Regulation 187 – Suitability and Best Interests in Life Insurance and Annuity Transactions (Regulation 187). The compliance date for Regulation 187 was August 1, 2019 for annuity products and was February 1, 2020 for life products. As amended, Regulation 187 requires producers to act in their client’s best interest when making point-of-sale and in-force recommendations, and provide in writing the basis for the recommendation, as well as the facts and analysis to support the recommendation. The amended regulation also imposes additional duties on life insurance companies in relation to these transactions, such as requiring insurers to establish and maintain procedures designed to prevent financial exploitation and abuse. We are implementing and enhancing processes and procedures, where needed, to comply with this regulation. Other states, such as Nevada, New Jersey, and Massachusetts, have also proposed standard of care regulations applicable to insurance producers, agents, financial advisors, investment advisers, broker-dealers and/or insurance companies. The proposed standards vary in scope, applicability and timing of implementation. We are closely monitoring these developments and evaluating their potential impacts on our products and services, our customers, distribution partners and financial advisors, and the life and retirement industry overall in the U.S.

Securities, Investment Adviser, Broker-Dealer and Investment Company Regulation

Our investment products and services are subject to applicable federal and state securities, fiduciary, including ERISA, and other laws and regulations. The SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), CFTC, state securities commissions, state insurance departments and the DOL are the principal U.S. regulators of these operations.

Our variable life insurance, variable annuity and mutual fund products are “securities” within the meaning of federal securities laws and may be required to be registered under the Securities Act. They are subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA, and as “securities”, these products are also subject to filing and certain other requirements under federal securities laws unless an exemption applies. As a result, some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling these products are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC and FINRA. 

Our mutual funds, and in certain states our variable life insurance and variable annuity products, are also “securities” within the meaning of state securities laws. As securities, unless an exemption applies, these products are subject to filing and certain other requirements under applicable state securities laws, and sales activities with respect to these products generally are also subject to state securities regulations. Such regulations may affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products.

In addition to being registered under the Securities Act, which regulates disclosure regarding investment products, some of the separate account, mutual fund and other pooled investment products offered by our businesses are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Some of these products may also be qualified for sale in various states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Our separate account investment products are also subject to applicable state insurance regulation. We also have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), as amended, and/or as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and their activities are subject to federal and state regulation. For example, the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act impose substantive regulation on the structure and governance of the investment products and services offered by these subsidiaries, while the offer and sale of our investment products by certain of our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries may be subject to, among other regulations, the SEC’s best interest regulation and the evolving standard of care laws and regulations referenced above. Further, our licensed sales professionals appointed with our broker-dealer and/or investment adviser subsidiaries and our other employees, insofar as they sell products that are securities, including wholesale and retail activity, are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation and examination requirements also extend to our subsidiaries that employ or control those individuals.

12 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K
ITEM 1 | Business

Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity

We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that require financial institutions and other businesses to protect personal and other sensitive information and provide notice of their practices relating to the collection, disclosure and other processing of personal information. We also are subject to U.S. laws and regulations requiring notification to affected individuals and regulators of security breaches. Below we highlight a few, key, recently-enacted regulations.

Effective March 1, 2017, the NYDFS promulgated a cybersecurity regulation requiring covered financial services institutions to implement a cybersecurity program designed to protect information systems. The regulation imposes specific technical safeguards as well as governance, risk assessment, monitoring and testing, third-party service provider incident response and reporting and other requirements. The regulation sets forth transitional periods for compliance with different sections of the regulation through March 1, 2019. AIG companies covered by the regulation annually file certifications of compliance with the then-in-effect requirements. Requirements under the NYDFS’ cybersecurity regulation are similar in many, but not all, respects to those under the NAIC Model Law.

In October 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law (NAIC Model Law), which would require insurers, insurance producers and other entities required to be licensed under state insurance laws to develop and maintain a written information security program, conduct risk assessments, oversee the data security practices of third-party service providers and other related requirements. Legislation based on the NAIC Model Law has been enacted in eight states and may be enacted in other states. 

In 2018, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), with an effective date of January 1, 2020. The CCPA contains a number of new requirements regarding the personal information of California consumers as defined by the statute, including new individual rights and mandatory disclosures regarding consumers’ personal information. The statute also establishes a private right of action in some cases if consumers’ personal information is subject to a data breach as a result of a business’ failure to implement and maintain reasonable security practices.

For information on privacy, data protection and cybersecurity regulation in the EU and other international jurisdictions, see International Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity. 

Thrift Regulator

AIG Federal Savings Bank, our trust-only federal thrift subsidiary, is supervised and regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.

INTERNATIONAL REGULATION

Insurance and Financial Services Regulation

A substantial portion of our business is conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, our subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements; licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification or revocation by such authorities, and therefore these subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. 

Certain jurisdictions require registration and periodic reporting by (re)insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and prior approval of intercompany transactions and transfers of assets, including in some instances payment of dividends by the (re)insurance subsidiary within the holding company system. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those jurisdictions that have such requirements.

In addition to these licensing and other requirements, our foreign operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on participating policies. Our foreign operations are subject to local tax laws and regulations as well. Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions, wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full compensation. In some countries, regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets. 

Legislation in the EU could also affect our international (re)insurance operations. The EU issues Directives and Regulations on a wide range of topics that impact financial services. Insurance companies operating in the EU are subject to the Solvency II framework. The Prudential Regulation Authority, the United Kingdom’s (UK’s) prudential regulator, is the lead prudential supervisor for our new UK entity, American International Group UK Limited (AIG UK). The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority has oversight of AIG UK for

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 13
ITEM 1 | Business

consumer protection and competition matters. For example, we are subject to the UK’s Senior Managers and Certification Regime (“SMCR”), legislation that is intended is to reduce harm to consumers and strengthen market integrity by making senior individuals more accountable for their conduct and competence. The SMCR comprises 3 elements: the Senior Managers Regime, which requires that firms appoint an individual with responsibility for each senior management function and subjects such individuals to regulatory pre-approval; the Certification Regime, which requires firms to certify (on an on-going basis) the fitness and propriety of certain employees who could harm the firm, its customers or the market; and the Conduct Rules, which are high-level standards of behavior expected of those working in financial services.

The Luxembourg insurance regulator, the Commissariat aux Assurances is the insurance regulator for AIG Europe SA, which serves our European Economic Area (EEA) and Swiss policyholders. For information on the UK’s pending withdrawal of its membership in the EU, see —Brexit. In addition, financial companies that operate in the EU are subject to a range of regulations enforced by the national regulators in each member state in which that firm operates. The EU has also established a set of regulatory requirements under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) that include, among other things, risk mitigation, risk management, regulatory reporting and clearing requirements. Solvency II governs the insurance industry’s solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards. In accordance with Solvency II, the European Commission is required to make a determination as to whether a supervisory regime outside of the EU is “equivalent.” 

On September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, on behalf of the U.S., and the EU signed the bilateral Covered Agreement, which is intended to address issues regarding the application of Solvency II requirements to U.S.-based insurance groups as well as other (re)insurance regulatory issues. Certain aspects of the agreement remain subject to an implementation timetable in the U.S. and the EU, which may delay or even prevent the agreement from being fully implemented. In particular, the U.S. states have been given a period of five years to comply with the agreement’s reinsurance collateral provisions. After 42 months, FIO must begin evaluating a potential preemption determination with respect to any state law not in compliance with the aim of assuring full compliance within the five-year timeframe. The agreement may be terminated (following mandatory consultation) by notice from one party to the other effective in 180 days, or at such time as the parties may agree.

Under the agreement, AIG will be supervised at the worldwide group level only by its relevant U.S. insurance supervisors, and will not have to satisfy EU Solvency II group capital, reporting and governance requirements for its worldwide group. The agreement, however, would permit the imposition of EU Solvency II group capital requirements if, after five years from the signing of the agreement, a U.S. insurer is not subject to a group capital assessment by its applicable state regulator. The NAIC is in the process of developing a group capital calculation that, if adopted by the states within the five-year time period, is expected to satisfy this condition. The agreement further provides that if the summary risk reports submitted to the supervisory authority of a host jurisdiction expose any serious threat to policyholder protection or financial stability in such host state, the host supervisor may request further information from the insurance group and/or impose preventive or corrective measures with respect to the (re)insurer in its jurisdiction. The agreement also seeks to impose equal treatment of U.S. and EU-based reinsurers that meet certain qualifications. In the U.S., once fully implemented, the agreement requires U.S. states to lift reinsurance collateral requirements on qualifying EU-based reinsurers and provide them equal treatment with U.S. reinsurers or be subject to federal preemption. While this provision does not preclude AIG from continuing to request collateral from an EU reinsurer that is party to a bilateral reinsurance transaction, it is unclear how much collateral AIG will be able to obtain from EU reinsurers going forward.

On December 18, 2018, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative signed the Bilateral Agreement between the U.S. and the UK on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance. The terms of the agreement are substantially similar to the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement. The agreement has been entered into in order to maintain regulatory certainty and market continuity as the UK prepares to leave the EU. The agreement is still subject to U.S. and UK internal requirements and procedures, including a 90 day Congressional notification period in the U.S. In addition, the agreement notes with respect to the date of entry into force that the UK must take into account its obligations arising in respect of any agreement between the EU and the UK pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, which sets out the process under which an EU member state may withdraw from the EU.

The Bermuda Monetary Authority (the BMA) regulates AIG’s operating (re)insurance subsidiaries in Bermuda. The Insurance Act 1978 and its related regulations, as enforced by the BMA, impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on our Bermuda operating (re)insurance subsidiaries including: the filing of annual statutory financial returns; the filing of annual GAAP financial statements for commercial (re)insurers; compliance with minimum enhanced capital requirements; compliance with the BMA’s Insurance Code of Conduct; compliance with minimum solvency margins and liquidity ratios (the latter for general business (re)insurers); limitations on dividends and distributions; preparation of an annual Financial Condition Report for commercial (re)insurers providing details of measures governing the business operations, corporate governance framework, solvency and financial performance; and restrictions on certain changes in control of regulated (re)insurers.

14 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K
ITEM 1 | Business

The Registrar of Companies (the ROC) regulates the compliance by AIG’s entities in Bermuda which carry on a Relevant Activity, as defined in Bermuda’s Economic Substance Act 2018 and related Economic Substance Regulations 2018 (as amended, the ES Laws). The purpose of the ES Laws are to ensure that Bermuda does not facilitate the use of structures which attract profits but which do not reflect real economic activity that is being undertaken in Bermuda. The ROC imposes the filing of an annual declaration form demonstrating compliance with the requirements of the ES Laws by entities which carry on a Relevant Activity.

The Japan Financial Services Agency (JFSA) regulates AIG’s operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries in Japan. The JFSA has extensive authority under the Insurance Business Act and related regulations to oversee company licensing, sales practices, business conduct, investments, reserves and solvency, among other items. Our Japanese insurance and reinsurance operations are required to maintain a minimum solvency margin ratio (SMR), which is a measure of capital adequacy. The failure to maintain an appropriate SMR, or comply with other similar indicators of financial health, could result in the JFSA imposing corrective actions on our operations. 

Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity

The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) took effect in May 2018. The GDPR aims to introduce consistent data protection rules across the EU, and its scope extends to entities established within the EEA (i.e., EU member states plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway) and also extends to certain entities not established in the EEA (in certain instances, if they solicit or target individuals in the EU to offer goods or services to EEA data subjects or monitor personal behavior of EEA data subjects (e.g., in an online context)).

We have sought to address these new requirements regarding the processing of personal data about individuals, including mandatory security breach reporting, new and strengthened individual rights, evidenced data controller accountability for compliance with the GDPR principles (including fairness and transparency), maintenance of data processing activity records and the implementation of “privacy by design”, including through the completion of mandatory Data Protection Impact Assessments in connection with higher risk data processing activities. Sanctions for non-compliance with the GDPR are more onerous than the previous regulatory regime with the potential for fines of up to 4 percent of global revenue for the most serious infringements.

We also are subject to other international laws and regulations that require financial institutions and other businesses to protect personal and other sensitive information and provide notice of their practices relating to the collection, disclosure and other processing of personal information, and to international laws and regulations requiring notification to affected individuals and regulators of security breaches. In addition, we must comply with laws and regulations regarding the cross-border transfer of information.

For additional information on U.S. privacy, data protection and cybersecurity regulation, see U.S. Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity.

FSB and IAIS 

The Financial Stability Board (FSB) consists of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 countries. The FSB itself is not a regulator but is focused primarily on promoting international financial stability. It does so by coordinating the work of national financial authorities and international standard-setting bodies as well as developing and promoting the implementation of regulatory, supervisory and other financial policies. The FSB has issued a series of frameworks and recommendations to address such issues as systemic financial risk, financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, corporate governance including compensation, and a number of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis.

The IAIS represents insurance regulators and supervisors of more than 200 jurisdictions (including regions and states) in nearly 140 countries and seeks to promote globally consistent insurance industry supervision. The IAIS itself is not a regulator, but one of its activities is to develop insurance regulatory standards for use by local authorities across the globe. The FSB has charged the IAIS with developing a framework for measuring and mitigating systemic risks posed by the insurance sector, and the IAIS has developed standards relative to many of the areas of focus of the FSB, which go beyond the IAIS’ basic Insurance Core Principles. The IAIS has adopted ComFrame, a Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs). ComFrame sets out qualitative and quantitative standards tailored to the international activity and size of IAIGs. These standards assist supervisors in collectively addressing an IAIG’s activities and risks, identifying and avoiding supervisory gaps and coordinating supervisory activities, particularly between the group-wide supervisor and other involved supervisors. ComFrame provides standards for group supervision, governance and internal controls, enterprise risk management, and recovery and resolution planning. As part of ComFrame, the IAIS is developing a risk-based global insurance capital standard (ICS) applicable to IAIGs, with the purpose of creating a common language for supervisory discussions of group solvency of IAIGs. We currently meet the criteria set forth to identify an IAIG. 

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 15
ITEM 1 | Business

The IAIS has adopted ICS version 2.0 for a five year monitoring phase, an initial phase commencing January 2020, during which ICS version 2.0 will be used for confidential reporting to group-wide supervisors and discussion in supervisory colleges, but will not trigger supervisory action. The purpose of the monitoring period is to monitor the performance of the ICS over a period of time, and not to assess the capital adequacy of IAIGs. During the monitoring period, the IAIS will collect and consider feedback from supervisors, stakeholder engagement, a public consultation, and the results of an economic impact assessment, all of which could result in changes to ICS Version 2.0.

At the conclusion of the five year monitoring period, the IAIS has agreed to a second phase of implementation, whereby the ICS will be applied as a group-wide prescribed capital requirement, defined as a solvency control level above which the supervisor does not intervene on capital adequacy grounds. 

Confidential reporting of ICS version 2.0 will include reporting by IAIGs of a reference ICS, a consolidated group-wide measure based on a standard method for determining capital requirements and a market adjusted valuation of assets and liabilities. In recognition that the United States and other interested jurisdictions are developing an Aggregation Method (AM) to a group capital calculation, the IAIS is aiding in the development of the AM, including the collection of data from interested jurisdictions. Although the AM is not part of ICS version 2.0, the IAIS aims to be in a position by the end of the monitoring phase to assess whether the AM provides substantially the same outcome as the ICS, in which case it will be considered an outcome-equivalent approach to the ICS. The IAIS has begun work on developing criteria to assess whether the AM provides comparable outcomes to the ICS, including a project plan focused on delivery by the end of the monitoring period. 

The IAIS has adopted a Holistic Framework for the assessment and mitigation of systemic risk in the insurance sector, for implementation from the beginning of 2020. The Holistic Framework recognizes that systemic risk can emanate from specific activities and exposures arising from either sector-wide trends or concentrations in individual insurers. The Holistic Framework consists of:

an enhanced set of supervisory policy measures for macroprudential purposes (including supervisory requirements applied to insurers targeting liquidity risk, macroeconomic exposure, and counterparty exposure; enhanced macroprudential supervision; crisis management and planning; and supervisory powers of intervention), 

an annual IAIS global monitoring exercise to assess trends and to detect the potential build-up of systemic risks (including an assessment of the possible concentration of systemic risks at individual insurers), 

mechanisms for collective IAIS discussion and assessment, including coordinated supervisory responses when needed, and

an IAIS assessment of the consistency of implementation across jurisdictions.

In light of the IAIS adoption of the Holistic Framework, the FSB has decided to continue as of the beginning of 2020 its suspension of the identification of global systemically important insurers (G-SII). In November 2022, based on the initial years of implementation of the Holistic Framework, the FSB will review the need to either discontinue or re-establish an annual identification of G-SIIs.

The standards issued by the FSB and/or the IAIS are not binding on the United States or other jurisdictions around the world unless and until the appropriate local governmental bodies or regulators adopt laws and regulations implementing such standards. At this time, as these standards have been adopted only recently and in some cases remain under development, it is not known how the IAIS’ frameworks and/or standards might be implemented in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world, or how they might ultimately apply to us.

Brexit 

On June 23, 2016, the UK held a referendum in which a majority voted for the UK to withdraw its membership in the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. The UK left the EU on January 31, 2020. Under the negotiated withdrawal agreement, there is an 11 month “transition period” during which EU rules will continue to apply in the UK and negotiations will continue to determine the future relationship between the UK and EU.

AIG has significant operations and employees in the UK and other EU member states. Prior to December 1, 2018, our General Insurance business operated through AIG Europe Limited (AEL), a UK-incorporated insurer with branches across the EEA. These branches operated through the EU concept of Freedom of Establishment, which allows an insurer in any member state to establish branch operations in any other member state but with a single capital pool and a single prudential regulator (which in this case was the UK’s Prudential Regulation Authority as AEL was UK-authorized). In addition, the various establishments of AEL were able to sell insurance products across borders into other member states under the EU principle of Freedom of Services. In the event that the UK left the EU without a withdrawal agreement in place, or in the event that an eventual agreement did not preserve access to these EU freedoms for UK insurers, AEL would have been severely constrained in its ability to utilize and benefit from such freedoms. UK government policy has not been to pursue continued UK membership of the EU single market and so it is unlikely that AEL’s structure would have remained efficient beyond the transitional period.

16 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K
ITEM 1 | Business

As a result, in order to adapt to and be prepared ahead of Brexit, on December 1, 2018, we completed a reorganization of our operations and legal entity structure in the UK and the EU through the establishment of a new European subsidiary in Luxembourg, AIG Europe S.A. (AESA), which has branches across the EEA and Switzerland, and a new UK subsidiary, AIG UK. Business written by AEL’s branches in the remaining EEA countries was transferred to AESA, along with business previously written on a Freedom of Services basis from AEL’s UK operations. The remaining business written by AEL’s UK operations was transferred to AIG UK and AEL was merged into AESA, allowing AIG to operate in both the EEA and UK on a standalone basis.

This reorganization addresses the uncertainty for UK insurers generated by Brexit because it ensures that even in the event that no agreement is reached between the UK and EU in this sector, AIG will be able to continue to service and pay claims on existing policies, and write new and renewal business where the insured risk is located in the remaining EEA countries. AIG continues to monitor, adapt to and prepare for other risks that may arise if the UK and EU are unable to agree provisions governing relevant aspects of their future relationship during the transition period including, for example, the effect on the wider UK and EU economies and on investments, legislative changes, updates to policy wording that may become necessary and through to other specific areas such as the issuance of additional documentation to motorists it insures who travel cross border.

Derivatives 

Regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions have been proposed or adopted outside the United States. For instance, the EU has also established a set of new regulatory requirements for EU derivatives activities under EMIR. These requirements include, among other things, various risk mitigation, risk management, margin posting, regulatory reporting and, for certain categories of derivatives, clearing requirements. Aside from certain margin obligations, these requirements are now in force. There remains the possibility of increased administrative costs with respect to our EU derivatives activities and overlapping or inconsistent regulation depending on the ultimate application of cross-border regulatory requirements between and among U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions.

Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) II

The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) and Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation took effect in Europe on January 3, 2018. MiFID II and the related regulations are intended to create transparency in market trading by, for example, imposing trade and transaction reporting and other requirements. AIG Asset Management (Europe) Limited has and continues to implement new policies, procedures and reporting protocols required to ensure compliance with this legislation and its related rules.

Available Information about AIG

Our corporate website is www.aig.com. We make available free of charge, through the Investor Information section of our corporate website, the following reports (and related amendments as filed with the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC: 

Annual Reports on Form 10-K

Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q 

Current Reports on Form 8-K

Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings with the SEC

Also available on our corporate website:

Charters for Board Committees: Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Compensation and Management Resources, Risk and Capital, and Technology Committees 

Corporate Governance Guidelines (which include Director Independence Standards)

Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (we will post on our website any amendment or waiver to this Code within the time period required by the SEC)

Employee Code of Conduct

Related-Party Transactions Approval Policy 

Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference to our website is made as an inactive textual reference.

AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 17
ITEM 1A | Risk Factors