PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The Company 

Aimco is a Maryland corporation incorporated on January 10, 1994. Aimco is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, focused on the ownership, management, redevelopment, and some development of quality apartment communities located in several of the largest markets in the United States. Those markets include: Atlanta; the San Francisco Bay Area; Boston; Chicago; Denver; Greater New York City; Greater Washington, D.C.; Los Angeles; Miami/Dade County; Philadelphia; San Diego; and Seattle. 

Aimco, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, AIMCO-GP, Inc. and AIMCO-LP Trust, owns a majority of the ownership interests in the Aimco Operating Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership formed on May 16, 1994. Aimco conducts all of its business and owns all of its assets through the Aimco Operating Partnership. 

Please refer to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for discussion regarding our segments. 

Business Overview 

Our business activities are defined by a commitment to our core values of integrity, respect, collaboration, performance, and a focus on our customers. These values and our corporate mission, “to consistently provide quality apartment homes in a respectful environment delivered by a team of people who care,” shape our culture. In all of our interactions with residents, team members, business partners, lenders, and equity holders, we aim to be the best owner and operator of apartment communities and an outstanding corporate citizen.  

Our principal financial objective is to provide predictable and attractive returns to our equity holders. We measure our long- term total return using Economic Income, defined as Net Asset Value, or NAV, growth plus dividends. NAV is used by many investors because the value of company assets can be readily estimated, even for non-earning assets such as land or properties under development. NAV has the advantage of incorporating the investment decisions of thousands of real estate investors, enhancing comparability among companies that have differences in their accounting and avoiding disparity that can result from application of GAAP to investment properties and various ownership structures. Over the past five years as of December 31, 2019, we have generated Economic Income at a compounded annual return of 10%. Some investors focus on multiples of Adjusted Funds From Operations, or AFFO, and Funds From Operations as defined by Nareit, or Nareit FFO. Our disclosure of AFFO, a measure of current return, complements our focus on Economic Income. We also use Pro forma Funds From Operations, or Pro forma FFO, as a secondary measure of operational performance.  

Our business plan to achieve our principal financial objective is to: 

•  

operate our portfolio of desirable apartment homes with a high level of focus on customer selection and customer satisfaction and in an efficient manner that produces predictable and growing Free Cash Flow, or FCF;  

•  

improve our portfolio of apartment communities, which is diversified both by geography and price point, by selling communities with lower projected FCF internal rates of return and investing the proceeds from such sales through capital enhancements, redevelopment, some development, and acquisitions with greater land value, higher expected rent growth, and projected FCF internal rates of return in excess of those expected from the communities sold;  

•  

use low levels of financial leverage primarily in the form of non-recourse, long-dated, fixed-rate property debt and perpetual preferred equity, a combination that reduces our refunding and re-pricing risk and provides a hedge against increases in interest rates; and 

•  

focus intentionally on a collaborative and productive culture based on respect for others and personal responsibility. 

The results from the execution of our business plan are discussed in the Executive Overview in Item 7. 

Our business is organized around five areas of strategic focus: operational excellence; redevelopment and development; portfolio management; balance sheet; and team and culture.  

2 

Table of Contents 

Operational Excellence 

We own and operate a portfolio of apartment communities, diversified by both geography and price point. As of December 31, 2019, our portfolio included 124 apartment communities with 32,839 apartment homes in which we held an average ownership of approximately 99%, and approximately 80% of the value of our portfolio, measured by gross asset value (the estimated fair value of our communities), was attributable to Same Store communities. 

To manage our property operations efficiently and to increase the benefits from our local management expertise, we give direct responsibility for operations within each area to area operations leaders with regular oversight by senior management. To enable the area operations leaders to focus on sales and service, as well as to improve financial control and budgeting, we have dedicated area financial officers who support the operations leaders. Additionally, with the exception of routine maintenance and purchases and installation of equipment, we have specialized teams that manage capital spending related to larger and more complicated construction. 

We seek to improve our property operations by: employing service-oriented, well-trained team members; taking advantage of advances in technology; increasing automation; centralizing operational tasks where efficient to do so; standardizing business processes, operational measurements, and internal reporting; and enhancing financial controls over field operations. We focus on the following areas: 

•  

Customer Satisfaction. Our operating culture is focused on our residents and providing them with a high level of service in a clean, safe, and respectful living environment. We regularly monitor and evaluate our performance by providing customers with numerous opportunities to grade our work. In 2019, we received 75,000 customer grades averaging 4.3 on a five-point scale. We use this customer feedback as a daily management tool. We also publish these customer evaluations online as important and credible information for prospective customers. We have automated certain aspects of our on-site operations to enable current and future residents to interact with us using methods that are efficient and effective for them, such as making online requests for service work, and executing leases and lease renewals. In addition, we emphasize the quality of our on-site team members through recruiting, training, and retention programs, which, with continuous and real-time customer feedback, contributes to improved customer service. We believe that greater customer satisfaction leads to higher resident retention and increased occupancy rates, which in turn leads to increased revenue and reduced costs. 

•  

Resident Selection and Retention. In our apartment communities, we believe that one’s neighbors are a meaningful part of the customer experience, together with the location of the community and the physical quality of the apartment homes. Part of our property operations strategy is to focus on attracting and retaining stable, credit-worthy residents who are also good neighbors and are likely to live with us longer. We have explicit criteria for resident selection, which we apply to new and renewal leases, including creditworthiness and behavior in accordance with our apartment community standards and our written “Good Neighbor Commitment.” Our focus on resident selection and retention led to 43% of our apartment homes turning over, an improvement (reduction) of approximately 150 basis points from 2018. 

•  

Revenue Management and Ancillary Services. We have a centralized revenue management system that leverages people, processes, and technology to work in partnership with our local property management teams to develop rental rate pricing. We seek to increase FCF, which we define as net operating income less Capital Replacements, by optimizing the balance between rental and occupancy rates, as well as taking into consideration costs such as preparing an apartment home for a new resident. We are focused on careful measurements of on-site operations, as we believe that timely and accurate collection of apartment community performance and resident profile data allows us to maximize FCF through better property management and leasing decisions. We seek to maximize profit by performing timely data analysis of new and renewal pricing for each apartment home, thereby enabling us to adjust rents quickly in response to changes in supply and demand and minimize vacancy time. We also generate incremental revenue by providing or facilitating the provision of services to our residents, including, at certain apartment communities, telecommunications services, parking options, package lockers, and storage space rental. 

•  

Controlling Expenses. Innovation is the foundation of our cost control efforts. Innovative activities we have undertaken include: moving administrative tasks to our shared service center, which reduces costs and allows site teams to focus on sales and service; taking advantage of economies of scale at the corporate level through electronic procurement, which reduces complexity and increases purchasing volume discounts; focusing on life cycle costs by investing in more durable, longer-lived materials, which reduce turn times and costs; and leveraging technology through such items as smart home capabilities, website design, and package lockers, which meet today’s customer preference for self-service. Additionally, our efforts to maximize resident retention through our resident selection process described above has resulted in reduced turn costs. These and other innovations contributed to a growth rate in controllable operating expense, which we define as property expenses less taxes, insurance, and utility expenses, compounding for the past 12 years at an annual rate of negative 0.2%. 

3 

Table of Contents 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Redevelopment and Development 

Our second line of business is the redevelopment and some development of apartment communities. Through redevelopment activities, we expect to create value by repositioning apartment communities within our portfolio. We undertake ground-up development when warranted by risk-adjusted investment returns, either directly or in connection with the redevelopment of an existing apartment community. When warranted, we rely on the expertise and credit of a third-party developer familiar with the local market to limit our exposure to construction risk. Over the past five years, we have spent approximately $1.0 billion on redevelopment and development, targeting FCF internal rates of return of approximately 9% to 11% on these investments.  

We undertake a range of redevelopments, including: those in which buildings or exteriors are renovated without the need to vacate a significant percentage of apartment homes, or short-cycle redevelopments; those in which significant renovation of apartment homes may be accomplished upon lease expiration and turnover; and those in which an entire building or community is vacated, or long-cycle redevelopments. We often execute redevelopment using a phased approach, in which we renovate an apartment community in stages. Redevelopment work may include seeking entitlements from local governments, which enhance the value of our existing portfolio by increasing density; that is, the right to add apartment homes to a site. 

We invest to earn risk-adjusted returns in excess of those expected from the communities sold in paired trades to fund the redevelopment or development. Of these two activities, we generally favor redevelopment because it permits adjustment to the scope and timing of spending to align with changing market conditions and customer preferences. 

Portfolio Management 

Our portfolio management strategy involves the allocation of investment capital to enhance rent growth and increase long-term capital values through portfolio design, emphasizing land value as well as location and submarket. We target geographic diversification in our portfolio in order to reduce the volatility of our rental revenue and to reduce the risk of undue concentration in any particular market. Similarly, we seek price point diversification by owning apartment communities that offer apartment homes at rents below those asked by competitive new building supply. 

Our portfolio of apartment communities is diversified across “A,” “B,” and “C+” price points, averaging “B/B+” in quality and is also diversified across several of the largest markets in the United States. Please refer to the Executive Overview section in Item 7 for a description of our portfolio quality ratings. As of December 31, 2019, our portfolio was allocated about one-half to “A” rated properties, and about one-half to “B” and “C+” rated properties. 

As part of our portfolio strategy, we seek to sell up to 10% of our portfolio annually and to reinvest the proceeds from such sales in accretive uses such as capital enhancements, redevelopments, some developments, and selective acquisitions with projected FCF internal rates of return higher than expected from the communities being sold. Through this disciplined approach to capital recycling, we increase the quality and expected growth rate of our portfolio. 

Balance Sheet 

Our leverage strategy seeks to increase financial returns by using leverage with appropriate caution. We limit risk through our balance sheet structure, employing low leverage, primarily non-recourse and long-dated property debt; build financial flexibility by maintaining ample unused and available credit as well as holding properties with substantial value unencumbered by property debt; and use partners’ capital when it enhances financial returns or reduces investment risk. 

Our leverage includes our share of long-term, non-recourse, property debt encumbering apartment communities, outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, outstanding preferred equity, and redeemable noncontrolling interests in a consolidated real estate partnership. 

4 

Table of Contents 

We target a ratio of Proportionate Debt and Preferred Equity to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization for real estate, or Adjusted EBITDAre, as defined by Nareit, below 7.0x and we target a ratio of Adjusted EBITDAre to Adjusted Interest Expense and Preferred Dividends greater than 2.5x.  

Our ratios as of December 31, 2019, were 7.6x and 3.5x, respectively. We delayed approximately $300 million of sales originally planned for fourth quarter 2019 and January 2020, which increased Proportionate Debt to Adjusted EBITDAre and Proportionate Debt and Preferred Equity to Adjusted EBITDAre by 0.3x as of December 31, 2019. We expect a gradual decline in leverage to EBITDAre ratios throughout 2020, reaching approximately 6.4x and 6.5x, respectively, at year end. In future years, we expect earnings growth from completed redevelopments will increase EBITDAre and further reduce our leverage ratios. 

Please refer to the Leverage Ratios subsection to the Non-GAAP Measures section in Item 7 for additional information regarding our leverage ratios.  

Our liquidity consists of cash balances and available capacity on our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2019, we had cash and restricted cash of $177.7 million and had capacity to borrow $517.8 million under our revolving credit facility. 

We manage our financial flexibility by maintaining an investment grade rating and holding apartment communities that are unencumbered by property debt. As of December 31, 2019, we held unencumbered communities with an estimated fair market value of approximately $2.4 billion. 

Please refer to the Executive Overview and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections in Item 7 for additional information regarding our balance sheet and liquidity. 

Team and Culture 

Our team and culture are keys to our success. Our intentional focus on a collaborative and productive culture based on respect for others and personal responsibility is reinforced by a preference for promotion from within. We focus on succession planning and talent development to produce a strong, stable team that is the enduring foundation of our success. We offer benefits reinforcing our value of caring for each other, including paid time for parental leave, paid time annually to volunteer in local communities, college scholarships for the children of team members, an emergency fund to help team members in crisis, financial support for our team members who are becoming United States citizens, and a bonus structure at all levels of the organization. We also pay full compensation and benefits for team members who are actively deployed by the United States military. Out of hundreds of participating companies in 2019, Aimco was one of only seven recognized as a “Top Workplace” in Colorado for each of the past seven years. Aimco was also recognized as a Top Workplace in the Bay Area in 2019. Also in 2019, Aimco was the only real estate company to receive a BEST award from the Association for Talent Development in recognition of our company-wide success in talent development, marking our second consecutive year receiving this award. 

Competition 

In attracting and retaining residents to occupy our apartment communities we compete with numerous other housing providers. Our apartment communities compete directly with other rental apartments, as well as condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our apartment communities are located. Principal factors of competition include rent or price charged, attractiveness of the location and apartment community, and the quality and breadth of services. The number of competitive apartment communities relative to demand in a particular area has a material effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our apartment communities and on the rents we charge. In certain markets, there exists an oversupply of newly-constructed apartment homes, single-family homes, and condominiums relative to consumer demand, which affects the pricing and occupancy of our rental apartments. 

We also compete with other real estate investors, including other apartment REITs, pension and investment funds, partnerships, and investment companies in acquiring, redeveloping, managing, obtaining financing for, and disposing of apartment communities. This competition affects our ability to acquire apartment communities we want to add to our portfolio and the price that we pay in such acquisitions; our ability to finance or refinance communities in our portfolio and the cost of such financing; and our ability to dispose of communities we no longer desire to retain in our portfolio and the timing and price available to us when we seek to dispose of such communities. 

Taxation 

Aimco 

Aimco has elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, and intends to continue to operate in such a manner. The Code imposes various requirements related to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership, and  

5 

Table of Contents 

certain restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of income that must be met in order to continue to qualify as a REIT. If Aimco continues to qualify for taxation as a REIT, Aimco will generally not be subject to United States federal corporate income tax on its taxable income that is currently distributed to stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the “double taxation” (at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from an investment in a corporation. 

Certain of Aimco’s operations, or a portion thereof, including property management and risk management are conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which we refer to as a TRS. A TRS is a subsidiary C-corporation that has not elected REIT status and, as such, is subject to United States federal corporate income tax. We use TRS entities to facilitate our ability to offer certain services and activities to our residents and investment partners that cannot be offered directly by a REIT. We also use TRS entities to hold investments in certain apartment communities. 

The Aimco Operating Partnership 

The Aimco Operating Partnership is treated as a “pass-through” entity for United States federal income tax purposes and is not subject to United States federal income taxation. Partners in the Aimco Operating Partnership, however, are subject to tax on their allocable share of partnership income, gains, losses, deductions, and credits, regardless of whether the partners receive any actual distributions of cash or other property from the Aimco Operating Partnership during the taxable year. Generally, the characterization of any particular item is determined by the Aimco Operating Partnership, rather than at the partner level, and the amount of a partner’s allocable share of such item is governed by the terms of the Aimco Operating Partnership’s Partnership Agreement. The Aimco Operating Partnership is subject to tax in certain states. 

Regulation 

General 

Apartment communities and their owners are subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including those related to real estate broker licensing and regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, activity centers, and other common areas. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on communities or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, as well as changes in laws affecting development, construction, and safety requirements, may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely affect our net income and cash flows from operating activities. In addition, existing rent control laws, as well as future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating multifamily housing, may reduce rental revenue or increase operating costs in particular markets. 

Environmental 

Various federal, state, and local laws subject apartment community owners or operators to liability for management, and the costs of removal or remediation, of certain potentially hazardous materials that may be present at an apartment community. These materials may include lead-based paint, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, and petroleum-based fuels. Such laws often impose liability without regard to fault or whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such materials. In connection with the ownership, operation, and management of apartment communities, we could potentially be liable for environmental liabilities or costs associated with our current communities, communities we acquire or manage in the future, or communities we previously owned or operated in the past. These and other risks related to environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Corporate Responsibility 

At Aimco, corporate responsibility is an important part of our business. As with all other aspects of our business, our corporate responsibility program focuses on continuous improvement, to the benefit of our stockholders, our residents, our team members, our communities, and the environment. Highlights of our corporate responsibility program can be found in our proxy statement for Aimco’s 2020 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Insurance 

Our primary lines of insurance coverage are property, general liability, and workers’ compensation. We believe that our insurance coverages adequately insure our apartment communities against the risk of loss attributable to fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood, terrorism, and other perils, and adequately insure us against other risk. Our coverage includes deductibles, retentions, and limits that are customary in the industry. We have established loss prevention, loss mitigation, claims handling, and litigation management procedures to manage our exposure. 

6 

Table of Contents 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 950 team members, of whom about 600 were at the apartment community level performing on-site functions or at our shared service center performing tasks that have been centralized there, with the balance managing corporate and area functions, including investment and debt transactions, legal, finance and accounting, information systems, human resources, and other support functions. As of December 31, 2019, unions represented approximately 50 of our team members. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe we maintain satisfactory relations with our team members. 

Available Information 

Our combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, our combined Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by Aimco or the Aimco Operating Partnership, and any amendments to any of those reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable through Aimco’s website at www.aimco.com. The information contained on Aimco’s website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS