PART I

Item 1.BUSINESS

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as “Amgen,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses by discovering, developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative human therapeutics. This approach begins by using tools like advanced human genetics to unravel the complexities of disease and understand the fundamentals of human biology.

Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet medical need and leverages its expertise to strive for solutions that improve health outcomes and dramatically improve people’s lives. A biotechnology pioneer, Amgen has grown to be one of the world’s leading independent biotechnology companies, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential.

Amgen was incorporated in California in 1980 and became a Delaware corporation in 1987. We have a presence in approximately 100 countries worldwide. Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics.

Significant Developments 

Following is a summary of significant developments affecting our business that have occurred and that we have reported since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Products/Pipeline 

Oncology/Hematology

KANJINTITM* (trastuzumab-anns)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For a discussion of litigation related to KANJINTITM, see Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

KYPROLIS® (carfilzomib)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In January 2020, our Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) was accepted by the China National Medical Products Administration for the use of KYPROLIS® and dexamethasone for the treatment of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.

MVASITM* (bevacizumab-awwb)

•In July 2019, we and Allergan launched MVASITM in the United States.

For a discussion of litigation related to MVASITM, see Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

* Registered in the United States. 

1

Collaboration with BeiGene, Ltd.

•In January 2020, we entered into a strategic collaboration with BeiGene, Ltd. (BeiGene) to support our oncology pipeline and expand our oncology presence in China. As part of the agreement we acquired a 20.5% stake in BeiGene for $2.8 billion in cash. 

AMG 510

•In October 2019, the FDA granted AMG 510 fast track designation for the treatment of patients with previously treated metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) G12C mutation. AMG 510 is a small molecule inhibitor of KRAS G12C. 

ABP 798 (biosimilar rituximab)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In December 2019, we and Allergan submitted a Biologics License Application (BLA) to the FDA for ABP 798. 

Cardiovascular

Repatha® (evolocumab)

•In August 2019, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware overturned a unanimous jury verdict upholding the validity of two of our patents related to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) antibodies in our infringement action against Sanofi, Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, Aventisub LLC and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. See Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Inflammation

AVSOLATM (infliximab-axxq/formerly ABP 710)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Enbrel® (etanercept)

•In August 2019, the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey ruled in Amgen’s favor on validity of the two patents that describe and claim ENBREL and methods for making it. See Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquisition of Otezla® (apremilast)

•In November 2019, we completed our acquisition of the worldwide rights to Otezla®, the only oral, non-biologic treatment for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis from Celgene Corporation (Celgene). Otezla®, along with certain related assets and liabilities, was acquired for $13.4 billion in cash. 

Bone health

EVENITY® (romosozumab-aqqg)

•In April 2019, the FDA approved EVENITY® for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at high risk for fracture.

•In December 2019, the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for EVENITY® for the treatment of severe osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at high risk of fracture.

Neuroscience

AMG 520/CNP520

•In July 2019, we and Novartis AG (Novartis) discontinued investigating AMG 520/CNP520, a small molecule inhibitor of beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE), for the prevention of Alzheimer’s disease.

2

Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products

The largest concentration of our sales and marketing forces is based in the United States and Europe. In addition, we continue to expand the commercialization and marketing of our products into other geographic territories, including parts of Latin America, the Middle East and Asia. This expansion is occurring by establishing our own affiliates, by acquiring existing third-party businesses or product rights or by partnering with third parties. Whether we use our own sales and marketing forces or a third party’s varies across these markets. Such use typically depends on several factors, including the nature of entry into the new market, the size of an opportunity and operational capabilities. Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies.

In the United States, we sell primarily to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, which are the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. We also market certain products through direct-to-consumer channels, including print, television and online media. For further discussion, see Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. Outside the United States, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country.

Our product sales to three large wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each individually accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years 2019, 2018 and 2017. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted for 81%, 84% and 81% of worldwide gross revenues for 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, in certain circumstances, by requiring letters of credit or obtaining credit insurance.

Our products are marketed around the world, with the United States being our largest market. The following chart shows our product sales by principal product and by geography for the years 2019, 2018 and 2017.

3

Enbrel® (etanercept)

We market ENBREL, a tumor necrosis factor blocker, primarily in the United States. ENBREL was launched in 1998 and is used primarily in indications for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, patients with chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy and patients with active psoriatic arthritis.

Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim)

We market Neulasta®, a pegylated protein based on the filgrastim molecule, primarily in the United States and Europe. Neulasta® was launched in 2002 and is used primarily in the indication to help reduce the chance of infection due to a low white blood cell count in patients with certain types of cancer (nonmyeloid) who receive anticancer medicines (chemotherapy) that can cause fever and a low blood cell count. In 2015, the Neulasta® Onpro® kit became available in the United States. The Neulasta® Onpro® kit provides physicians the opportunity to initiate the administration of Neulasta® on the same day as chemotherapy, with drug delivery of the recommended dose of Neulasta® at home the day after chemotherapy, thereby saving patients a trip back to the doctor. 

Prolia® (denosumab)

We market Prolia® primarily in the United States and Europe. Prolia® contains the same active ingredient as XGEVA® (denosumab) but is approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration. Prolia® was launched in the United States and Europe in 2010. In the United States, it is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk of fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture; or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In Europe, Prolia® is used primarily for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fracture.

XGEVA® 

We market XGEVA® primarily in the United States and Europe. XGEVA® was launched in the United States in 2010 and is now used primarily in the indication for the prevention of skeletal-related events (SREs) (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors and multiple myeloma. XGEVA® was launched in Europe in 2011 and is used primarily in the indication for the prevention of SREs in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors. It was approved in January 2018 in the United States and in April 2018 in Europe for the prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma.

Aranesp® (darbepoetin alfa)

We market Aranesp® primarily in the United States and Europe. It was launched in 2001 and is indicated to treat a lower-than-normal number of red blood cells (anemia) caused by chronic kidney disease (CKD) (in both patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis). Aranesp® is also indicated for the treatment of anemia due to concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy in certain patients with nonmyeloid malignancies and when chemotherapy will be used for at least two months after starting Aranesp®.

KYPROLIS® (carfilzomib) 

We market KYPROLIS® primarily in the United States and Europe. KYPROLIS® was launched in 2012 and is indicated in combination with dexamethasone or with lenalidomide plus dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three prior lines of therapy. It is also approved as a single agent for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one or more previous therapies. In September 2019, the CANDOR phase 3 study of KYPROLIS® in combination with dexamethasone and DARZALEX® met its primary endpoint of PFS in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. FDA approval of KYPROLIS® in combination with dexamethasone and DARZALEX® is expected in 2020.

EPOGEN® (epoetin alfa)

We market EPOGEN® in the United States for dialysis patients. EPOGEN® was launched in 1989, and we market it for the indication to treat anemia caused by CKD in patients on dialysis in order to lessen the need for red blood cell transfusions. The majority of our sales are to a large dialysis provider.

Sensipar®/Mimpara® (cinacalcet)

We market cinacalcet as Sensipar® primarily in the United States and as Mimpara® primarily in Europe. It was launched in 2004 and is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in adult patients with CKD who are on dialysis.

4

Other Marketed Products

We also market a number of other products in various markets worldwide, including Nplate® (romiplostim), Vectibix® (panitumumab), Repatha® (evolocumab), Parsabiv® (etelcalcetide), BLINCYTO® (blinatumomab), Aimovig® (erenumab-aooe), NEUPOGEN® (filgrastim), Otezla® (apremilast), AMGEVITATM (adalimumab), KANJINTITM (trastuzumab), EVENITY® (romosozumab-aqqg), IMLYGIC® (talimogene laherparepvec), MVASITM (bevacizumab-awwb) and Corlanor® (ivabradine). 

Otezla®  

In November 2019, we began to market Otezla® upon the closing of our acquisition. Otezla® is used primarily for the treatment of patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis for whom phototherapy or systemic therapy is appropriate. 

Patents

The following table lists our outstanding material patents for the indicated product by territory, general subject matter and latest expiry date. Certain of the European patents are the subjects of supplemental protection certificates that provide additional protection for the products in certain European countries beyond the dates listed in the table. See footnotes to the patent table below.

One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry dates may fall under the same general subject matter and are not listed separately.

5

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CGRP = calcitonin gene-related peptide, RANKL = receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand

6

(1) A European patent with this subject matter may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe, and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates have been issued related to the indicated products for patents in at least the following countries:

•denosumab — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2025

•cinacalcet — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2020

•carfilzomib — France, Germany, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2030

•romiplostim — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2024

•panitumumab — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2022

•evolocumab — France and Spain, expiring in 2030

•etelcalcetide — France and Italy, expiring in 2031

•blinatumomab — France, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2029

•erenumab — France, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2033

•talimogene laherparepvec — Spain, expiring in 2026; France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2027

•apremilast — Italy, expiring in 2028

(2) A patent with this subject matter may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment. A number of our marketed products are indicated in disease areas in which other products or treatments are currently available or are being pursued by our competitors through research and development (R&D) activities. Additionally, some competitor-marketed products target the same genetic pathways as our recently launched marketed products or are being pursued currently. This competition could impact the pricing and market share of our products. We continue to pursue ways to increase the value of our medicines through innovations during their life cycles, which can include expanding the disease areas for which our products are indicated and finding new methods to make the delivery of our medicines easier and less costly. Such activities can offer important opportunities for differentiation. For example, we market the Neulasta® Onpro® kit, which provides physicians the opportunity to initiate the administration of the recommended dose of Neulasta® on the same day as chemotherapy, with drug delivery at home the day after chemotherapy, thereby saving patients a trip back to the doctor. We also market the AutoTouch® reusable auto-injector to be used with Enbrel Mini® single-dose prefilled cartridges (50 mg/mL). The Enbrel Mini® utilizes a drug formulation of ENBREL that was associated with statistically significant lower-mean-injection site pain than the current formulation. We plan to continue pursuing innovation efforts to strengthen our competitive position. Such position may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience, delivery devices, price, reimbursement, access to and timing of market entry and patent position and expiration.

Certain of the existing patents on our principal products have expired, and we face new and increasing competition, including from biosimilars and generics. A biosimilar is another version of a biological product for which marketing approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration that it is “highly similar” to the original reference product. We expect that the adverse impact on our originator product sales from biosimilar competition will reflect current trends and actual results given similar conditions. We also believe that when multiple biosimilar versions of one of our originator products get approved and launched, competition could intensify more rapidly, leading to net price declines for both reference and biosimilar products, resulting in a greater impact on our products’ sales. We have seen biosimilar markets evolve differently across our major markets. For example, biosimilar adoption rates tend to be faster in the European Union (EU) than in the United States. In the United States, companies now have launched biosimilar versions of EPOGEN®, NEUPOGEN® and Neulasta® and have approved biosimilars for ENBREL. See also Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Approval of Biosimilars. Although we expect competitor biosimilars to compete on price, we believe many patients, providers and payers will continue to place high value on the reputation, reliability and safety of our products. As additional biosimilar competitors come to market, we will leverage our global experience versus both branded and biosimilar competition. 

We also have our own biosimilar products in the United States and outside the U.S. markets that are competing against branded and biosimilar versions of our competitors’ products. In 2019, Amgen, in collaboration with Allergan, launched in the United States MVASITM, a biosimilar to Avastin® (bevacizumab), and KANJINTITM, a biosimilar to Herceptin® (trastuzumab). We have also received FDA approval for AMJEVITATM (adalimumab-atto), a biosimilar to Humira® (adalimumab), and 

7

AVSOLATM(infliximab-axxq), a biosimilar to Remicade® (infliximab). We expect additional biosimilar competition to both our branded and biosimilar products in the future across all markets.

In addition, although most of our products are biologics, some of our products are small molecule products. Because the FDA approval process allows generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product rather than having to conduct their own costly and time-consuming clinical trials, generic manufacturers can often develop and market their competing versions of our small molecule products at much lower prices. As a result, upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a small molecule product, we can lose the majority of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. 

The introduction of new products, the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or the emergence of new information about existing products may result (i) in increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents or (ii) in reductions in the prices we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates. (As used in this document, the term clinical trials may include prospective clinical trials, observational studies, registries and other studies.) See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our products face substantial competition and Item 1A. Risk Factors—We currently face competition from biosimilars and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future.

8

The following table reflects our significant competitors and is not exhaustive. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Approved biosimilars available.

(1) A subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson (J&J).

(2) Dermatology only. 

(3) Other biosimilars under regulatory review in the United States and Europe. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(7) A subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.

(8) A subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.

(9) KYPROLIS® is facing increased competition from several recently approved products.

(10) A subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS).

9

Reimbursement 

Sales of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. In many markets around the world, these payers, including government health systems, private health insurers and other organizations, remain focused on reducing the cost of healthcare, and their efforts have intensified as a result of rising healthcare costs and economic challenges. Drugs remain heavily scrutinized for cost containment. As a result, payers are becoming more restrictive regarding the use of biopharmaceutical products and scrutinizing the prices of these products while requiring a higher level of clinical evidence to support the benefits such products bring to patients and the broader healthcare system. These pressures are intensified where our products are subject to competition, including from biosimilars.

In the United States, healthcare providers and other entities such as pharmacies and pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) are reimbursed for covered services and products they deliver through both private payer and government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We provide negotiated rebates to healthcare providers, private payers, government payers and PBMs. In addition, we are required to (i) provide rebates or discounts on our products that are reimbursed through certain government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and (ii) provide discounts to qualifying healthcare providers under the federal 340B Drug Pricing Program. 

Both private and government payers utilize formularies to manage access and utilization of drugs. A drug’s inclusion and favorable positioning on formulary is essential to ensure patients have access to a particular drug. Even when access is available, some patients abandon their prescriptions due to economic reasons. Payers continue to institute cost reduction and containment measures that lower drug utilization and/or spending altogether and/or shift a greater portion of the costs to patients. Such measures include, but are not limited to, more limited benefit plan designs, higher patient co-pays or coinsurance obligations, limitations on patients’ use of commercial manufacturer co-pay payment assistance programs (including through co-pay accumulator adjustment or maximization programs), stricter utilization management criteria before a patient may get access to a drug, higher-tier formulary placement that increases the level of patient out-of-pocket costs and formulary exclusion, which effectively encourages patients and providers to seek alternative treatments or pay 100% of the cost of a drug. The use of such measures by PBMs and insurers has continued to intensify and thereby limited Amgen product usage and sales. Furthermore, over the past few years, PBMs and insurers have consolidated, resulting in a smaller number of PBMs and insurers overseeing a large portion of total covered lives in the United States. As a result, PBMs and insurers have greater market power and negotiating leverage to mandate stricter utilization criteria and/or exclude drugs from their formularies in favor of competitor drugs or alternative treatments. In highly competitive treatment markets such as with ENBREL, Otezla, Repatha® and Aimovig®, PBMs are also able to exert negotiating leverage by requiring incremental rebates from manufacturers in order to gain and/or maintain their formulary position. 

In addition to market actions taken by private and government payers in the United States, policy makers from both major U.S. political parties are pursuing policies to lower drug costs. Potential policies cover a wide range of areas, including allowing importation of drugs from other countries, creating an International Pricing Index, which would set the prices of certain drugs based on those available in other countries, establishing caps on price increases based on inflation metrics, increasing greater transparency on drug pricing and utilizing third party value assessments to determine drug prices. For example, in December 2019, a drug-pricing bill, H.R. 3, passed the U.S. House of Representatives, which would, among other things, enable direct price negotiations by the federal government on certain drugs (with the maximum price paid by Medicare capped based on an international price index), include a penalty for failing to reach agreement with the government and require that manufacturers offer these negotiated prices to other payers. It also would penalize manufacturers for raising prices on drugs covered by Medicare Parts B and D faster than the rate of inflation and make other changes to the structure of Medicare Part D benefit design. The path forward on drug-pricing policy reforms remains unclear from both a congressional and administrative perspective despite all of the activity in 2019. Deliberations are continuing into 2020. 

In many countries outside the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for drugs and biologics. With increasing budgetary constraints and/or difficulty in understanding the value of medicines, governments and payers in many countries are applying a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. These measures can include mandatory price controls, price referencing, therapeutic-reference pricing, increases in mandates, incentives for generic substitution and biosimilar usage and government-mandated price cuts. In this regard, many countries have health technology assessment organizations that use formal economic metrics such as cost-effectiveness to determine prices, coverage and reimbursement of new therapies; and these organizations are expanding in established and emerging markets. Many countries also limit coverage to populations narrower than our product label or impose volume caps to limit utilization. We expect that countries will continue to take aggressive actions to seek to reduce expenditures on drugs and biologics. Similarly, fiscal constraints may also affect the extent to which countries are willing to approve new and innovative therapies and/or allow access to new technologies.

10

The dynamics and developments discussed above serve to create pressure on the pricing and potential usage of our products and the industry. Given the diverse interests in play between payers, biopharmaceutical manufacturers, policy makers, healthcare providers and independent organizations, if and whether the parties involved can achieve alignment on the matters discussed above remains unclear and the outcome of any such alignment is difficult to predict. We remain focused on delivering breakthrough treatments for unmet medical needs. Amgen is committed to working with the entire healthcare community to ensure continued innovation and to facilitate patient access to needed medicines. We do this by:

•investing billions of dollars annually in R&D;

•developing more affordable therapeutic choices in the form of high-quality and reliably-supplied biosimilars;

•pricing our medicines to reflect the value they provide;

•partnering with payers to share risk and accountability for health outcomes;

•providing patient support and education programs; 

•helping patients in financial need access our medicines; and

•working with policy makers, patients and other stakeholders to establish a sustainable healthcare system with access to affordable care and where patients and their healthcare professionals are the primary decision makers.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures may affect our profitability and Item 1A. Risk Factors—Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.

Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials

Manufacturing

We believe we are a leader in the manufacturing of biologics and that our manufacturing capabilities represent a competitive advantage. The products we manufacture consist of both biologics and small molecule drugs. The majority of our products are biologics that are produced in living cells and that are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Further, our expertise in manufacturing of biologics positions us well for leadership in the global biosimilars market. For additional information regarding manufacturing facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Our internal manufacturing network has the commercial production capabilities of bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill, finish, tableting and device assembly. These activities are performed within the United States and its territories in our Puerto Rico, Rhode Island and California facilities as well as internationally in our Ireland, Netherlands and Singapore facilities. In addition, we utilize third-party contract manufacturers to supplement the capacity or capability of our commercial manufacturing network. 

To support our clinical trials, we manufacture product candidates primarily at our California facilities. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers to supplement the capacity or capability of our overall clinical manufacturing network.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products.

Distribution

We operate distribution centers in Puerto Rico, Kentucky, California and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. We also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our products worldwide.

Other

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, each of our manufacturing locations also includes key manufacturing support functions, including quality control, process development, engineering, procurement, production scheduling and warehousing. Certain of those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies. See Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. 

11

Manufacturing Initiatives

We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to extend our manufacturing advantage by optimizing our manufacturing network and/or mitigating risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our products. 

In 2017, our next-generation biomanufacturing plant in Singapore was licensed by the FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for certain commercial-scale production. In 2019, we were approved to produce an additional product at that site. A next-generation biomanufacturing plant incorporates multiple innovative technologies into a single facility and therefore can be built in half the construction time with approximately half the operating cost of a traditional plant. Next-generation biomanufacturing plants require a smaller manufacturing footprint and offer greater environmental benefits, including reduced consumption of water and energy and lower levels of carbon emissions. Within the plants, the equipment is portable and smaller, and some components are disposable, which provides greater flexibility and speed when manufacturing different medicines simultaneously. This eliminates costly and complex retrofitting inherent in standard plants and allows Amgen to respond to changing demands for its medicines with increased agility, ultimately impacting the speed at which a medicine becomes available for patients. The Singapore site also has a plant that has been approved to produce small molecule drugs for commercial manufacturing.

In July 2018, we announced the groundbreaking of our newest next-generation biomanufacturing plant, which is being constructed at our West Greenwich, Rhode Island, campus. The new plant is expected to be the first of its kind in the United States and will use our next-generation biomanufacturing capabilities. After construction has been completed and upon approval by the FDA and other global regulatory authorities, this plant will expand our capacity to manufacture certain products for U.S. and global markets. 

In 2019, we also initiated projects to expand our manufacturing capabilities in Thousand Oaks, California as well as at contract manufacturers. These investments will initially support clinical manufacturing, but in the future may also be leveraged for commercial manufacturing.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.

Raw Materials and Medical Devices

Certain raw materials, medical devices (including companion diagnostics) and components necessary for the commercial and/or clinical manufacturing of our products are provided by, and are the proprietary products of, unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only sources for such materials. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.

We perform various procedures to help authenticate the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country of origin. The procedures are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform.

Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities. In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. Compliance with these standards is complex, and failure to comply with any of these standards can result in significant implications. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of factors, including global regulatory implications, that can adversely impact our development and marketing of commercial products.

Regulation in the United States

In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the production, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising, promotion and distribution of our products in addition to the reporting of certain payments and other transfers of value to healthcare professionals and teaching hospitals.

Clinical Development and Product Approval. Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky, and failure rates are high. Product development cycles are typically very long—approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable risk-benefit profile.

12

After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, we undertake an FDA-designated three-phase human clinical testing program.

•In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects.

•In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to investigate side-effect profiles and the efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

•In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, reevaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based on the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s risk-benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of either a BLA for biologic products or a New Drug Application for small molecule products. We are not permitted to market or promote a new product until the FDA has approved our marketing application.

Approval of Biosimilars. The ACA authorized the FDA to approve biosimilars via a separate, abbreviated pathway. The pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the nonclinical and clinical trial data of an originator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated to be “highly similar” and to have no clinically meaningful differences in terms of safety, purity and potency. The relevance of demonstrating “similarity” is that in many cases, biosimilars can be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originators, as risk-benefit has previously been established. In order to preserve incentives for future innovation, the law establishes a period of exclusivity for originators’ products, which in general prohibits biosimilars from gaining FDA approval based in part on reliance on or reference to the originator’s data in their application to the FDA for 12 years after initial FDA approval of the originator product. The law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic products. The FDA has released a number of guidance documents as part of the implementation of the abbreviated approval pathway for biosimilars, some of which remain in draft form. 

Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. The FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of drug products. Our product promotion for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA and the FDA’s implementing regulations and guidance. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses but is not limited to direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare-provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving electronic media. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities that make representations regarding product safety or efficacy in a promotional context. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators. Additionally, as described below, such failure may lead to additional liability under U.S. healthcare fraud and abuse laws.

Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing approval to market products. If after receiving approval from the FDA we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA conducts regular, periodic visits to reinspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval.

Regulation of Combination Products. Combination products are defined by the FDA to include products composed of two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and/or drug and a device). Biologics/drugs and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. A number of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework, and we expect that a number of our pipeline product candidates will be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well.

13

Regulation outside the United States

In EU countries as well as in Switzerland, Canada, Australia and Japan, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States.

In the EU, there are currently two potential tracks for seeking marketing approval for a product not authorized in any EU member state: a decentralized procedure and a centralized procedure. In the decentralized procedure, identical applications for marketing authorization are submitted simultaneously to the national regulatory agencies. Regulatory review is led by one member state (the reference-member state), and its assessment—based on safety, quality and efficacy—is reviewed and approved (assuming there are no concerns that the product poses a serious risk to public health) by the other member states from which the applicant is seeking approval (the concerned-member states). The decentralized procedure leads to a series of single national approvals in all relevant countries. In the centralized procedure, which is required of all products derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single MAA to the EMA, which conducts an evaluation of the dossier, drawing upon its scientific resources across Europe. If the drug product is proven to fulfill the requirements for quality, safety and efficacy, the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products of Human Use (CHMP) adopts a positive opinion, which is transmitted to the EC for final decision on grant of the marketing authorization. While the EC generally follows the CHMP’s opinion, it is not bound to do so. Subsequent commercialization is enabled by country-by-country reimbursement approval.

In the EU, biosimilars are approved under a specialized pathway of the centralized procedure. As with the U.S. pathway, applicants seek and obtain regulatory approval for a biosimilar once the data exclusivity period for the original reference product has expired relying in part on the data submitted for the originator product together with data evidencing that the biosimilar is “highly similar” in terms of quality, safety and efficacy to the original reference product authorized in the European Economic Area.

As a result of the United Kingdom’s decision to leave the EU, the EMA, in March 2019, relocated to Amsterdam. While negotiations continue regarding the terms of the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the EU, the specific impact to the supervision, regulation and supply of medicines in the United Kingdom and Europe remain unclear. 

Other countries such as Russia, Turkey and those in Latin America and the Middle East have review processes and data requirements similar to those of the EU and in some cases can rely on prior marketing approval from U.S. or EU regulatory authorities. The regulatory process in these countries may include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements.

In Asia Pacific, a number of countries such as China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan may require local clinical trial data for bridging purposes as part of the drug registration process in addition to global clinical trials, which can add to overall drug development and registration timelines. In most of the Asian markets, registration timelines depend on marketing approval in the United States or the EU. In some markets in Asia, such as China, Indonesia and Thailand, the regulatory timelines can be less predictable. The regulatory process may also include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements. Countries such as Australia and Japan have more-mature systems that would allow for submissions in more competitive time frames. Regarding biosimilars, several of these countries have pathways to register biosimilars (e.g., Australia, India, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan), and biosimilar products are already present on the markets (e.g., Australia and South Korea).

In some countries, such as Japan and those in the EU, medical devices may be subject to regulatory regimes whereby manufacturers must establish that their medical devices conform to essential requirements set out in the law for the particular device category. For example, in the EU, with limited exceptions, medical devices placed on the market must bear the Conformité Européenne marking to indicate their conformity with legal requirements.

Postapproval Phase

After approval, we continue to monitor adverse events and product complaints reported following the use of our products through routine post-marketing surveillance and studies when applicable. We report such events to the appropriate regulatory agencies as required per local regulations for individual cases and aggregate reports. We proactively monitor (according to good pharmacovigilance practices) and ensure implementation of signal detection, assessment and the communication of adverse events that may be associated with the use of our products. We also proactively monitor product complaints through our quality systems, which includes assessing our drug delivery devices for device complaints, adverse events and malfunctions. We may also be required by regulatory agencies to conduct further clinical trials on our marketed products as a condition of their approval or to provide additional information on safety and efficacy. Health authorities, including the FDA, have authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a product’s life cycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products.

14

Health authorities, including the FDA, also have the authority, before or after approval, to require companies to implement a risk management program for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Each risk management program is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. In the United States, a risk management program is known as a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS), and we currently have REMSs for Prolia®, Nplate® and BLINCYTO®.

Other Regulation

We are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false-claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescribing of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False-claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid), any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as by the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Liability under the false-claims laws may also arise when a violation of certain laws or regulations related to the underlying products (e.g., violations regarding improper promotional activity or unlawful payments) contributes to the submission of a false claim.

In 2012, Amgen entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), which was formally closed out in August 2018. On April 25, 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the OIG of the HHS to settle certain allegations related to our support of independent charitable organizations that provide patients with financial assistance to access their medicines. Additionally, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement that requires us to maintain a corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that in the future, our practices might be further challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. 

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA arguably includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. Failure by our employees, agents, contractors, vendors, licensees, partners or collaborators to comply with FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and/or regulations could result in significant civil or criminal penalties. 

We are subject to various laws and regulations globally regarding privacy and data protection. These laws and regulations relate to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data. The legislative and regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection is continually evolving and developing, as these issues are the subjects of increasing amounts of attention in countries globally. For example, we are subject to the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which became effective on May 25, 2018, and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which became effective on January 1, 2020. Other jurisdictions where we operate have enacted or proposed similar legislation and/or regulations. Failure to comply with these laws could result in significant penalties.

Our business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and regulations.

Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates

We focus our R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of serious illness. We capitalize on our strengths in human genetics, novel biology and protein engineering. We leverage our biologic expertise and take a modality-independent approach to R&D. We use cutting-edge science and technology to study subtle biological mechanisms in search of therapies that will improve the lives of those who suffer from diseases.

Our discovery research programs may therefore yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules, small molecules, other combination modalities or new modalities. Leveraging more than two decades of research at deCODE, a global leader in analysis of the human genome, we are reshaping our portfolio and increasingly focusing efforts on validated targets. Human genetic validation is used whenever possible in order to enhance the likelihood of success.

We have continued to expand our genetics validation efforts as we believe it to be a strategic advantage by acquiring a DNA-encoded library drug discovery platform, which enables efficient discovery of novel small molecule drug candidates. The platform provides access to the screening of billions of molecules and efficient optimization of drug properties in the process of identifying the drug candidate. In addition, we announced a collaboration with a focus on discovering new connections between genetics and human disease and another collaboration to participate in a consortium to provide the whole-genome sequencing of approximately 500,000 participants in the United Kingdom. 

15

Other collaborations entered into include: one to create custom-designed proteins to improve human health and another with BeiGene to advance 20 medicines from our innovative oncology pipeline in China and globally. We anticipate utilizing data from clinical trials conducted in China to advance the development of our oncology portfolio globally. 

For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, our R&D expenses were $4.1 billion, $3.7 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively.

We have major R&D centers in Thousand Oaks and San Francisco, California; Iceland; and the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. See Item 2. Properties.

Our clinical trial activities are conducted by both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. To increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened clinical sites and will continue opening clinical sites and enrolling patients in a number of geographic locations. See Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Clinical Development and Product Approval for a discussion of government regulation over clinical development. Also see Item 1A. Risk Factors—We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.

Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in areas in which we have products or in which we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is greatly dependent on the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, thereby contributing to a product’s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of a product to the market will be important to our competitive position.

In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D arrangements with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. In pursuing these R&D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from those entities performing the R&D.

The following table shows a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 11, 2020, unless otherwise indicated. Additional product candidate information can be found on our website at www.amgen.com. (The website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.) The information in this section does not include other, nonregistrational clinical trials that we may conduct for purposes other than for submission to regulatory agencies for their approval of a new product indication. 

We may conduct nonregistrational clinical trials for various reasons, including to evaluate real-world outcomes or to collect additional safety information with regard to the use of our products. 

16

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Phase 3Clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study; typically performed with registrational intent.

Phase 2Clinical trials investigate side-effect profiles and efficacy of product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

Phase 1Clinical trials investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of product candidates in a small number of human subjects.

17

Phase 3 Product Candidate Program Changes

As of February 12, 2019, we had 12 phase 3 programs, including biosimilars. As of February 12, 2020, we had 14 phase 3 programs, as regulatory approvals were received for two programs, one program terminated, one study was completed, three programs initiated phase 3 studies and three programs were acquired from Celgene. These changes are set forth in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information

The following table describes our composition-of-matter patents that have been issued thus far for our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any indication in the United States or the EU. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications in the United States or the EU but that are currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications are previously described. See Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Patents.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Patent expiration estimates are based on issued patents, which may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors. The patent expiration estimates do not include any term adjustments, extensions or supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained in the future and thereby extend these dates. Corresponding patent applications are pending in other jurisdictions. Additional patents may be filed or issued and may provide additional exclusivity for the product candidate or its use.

Phase 3 and 2 Program Descriptions

The following provides additional information about selected product candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials.

EVENITY® 

EVENITY® is a humanized monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of sclerostin. It is being evaluated as a treatment for male osteoporosis. EVENITY® is being developed in collaboration with UCB. 

In April 2019, we and UCB announced that the FDA approved EVENITY® for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at high risk for fracture.

In December 2019, we and UCB announced that the EC granted marketing authorization for EVENITY® for the treatment of severe osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at high risk of fracture.

18

IMLYGIC® 

IMLYGIC® is an oncolytic immunotherapy derived from herpes simplex virus type 1.

A phase 1b/3 study to evaluate IMLYGIC® in combination with Merck & Co., Inc.’s anti-PD-1 therapy, KEYTRUDA® (pembrolizumab), in patients with mid-stage to late-stage metastatic melanoma is ongoing.

KYPROLIS® 

KYPROLIS® is a small molecule proteasome inhibitor.

In September 2019, we announced that the phase 3 CANDOR study evaluating KYPROLIS® in combination with dexamethasone and DARZALEX® compared to KYPROLIS® and dexamethasone alone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma met its primary endpoint of PFS. In addition, a phase 3 study comparing once-weekly versus twice-weekly carfilzomib with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in subjects with relapsed multiple myeloma is ongoing.

In January 2020, a sNDA was submitted to the FDA to expand the Prescribing Information to include KYPROLIS® in combination with dexamethasone and DARZALEX® for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma based on data from the phase 3 CANDOR study.

Nplate® 

Nplate® is a thrombopoietin receptor agonist. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for early chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia. 

Omecamtiv mecarbil

Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule selective cardiac myosin activator, also called a myotrope, which directly targets the contractile mechanisms of the heart. It is being investigated in phase 3 studies for the potential treatment of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). Omecamtiv mecarbil is being developed under a collaboration between Amgen and Cytokinetics, with funding and strategic support from Servier. 

Otezla® 

Otezla® is a small molecule that inhibits phosphodiesterase 4. It is being investigated in phase 3 studies for the treatment of oral ulcers associated with Behcet’s disease, severe genital psoriasis and mild-to-moderate plaque psoriasis. 

Repatha® 

Repatha® is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits PCSK9. It is being investigated in the phase 3 VESALIUS-CV cardiovascular outcomes study in high-risk patients without prior heart attack or stroke. 

Rozibafusp alfa 

Rozibafusp alfa is a bispecific antibody peptide conjugate that targets the B lymphocyte stimulator (BAFF) and inducible costimulatory (ICOS) ligand. It is being investigated as a treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus.

Tezepelumab 

Tezepelumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of thymic stromal lymphopoietin. It is being evaluated as a treatment for severe asthma in an ongoing phase 3 study. It is also being investigated in phase 2 studies for atopic dermatitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Tezepelumab is being developed jointly in collaboration with AstraZeneca plc (AstraZeneca).

AMG 510

AMG 510 is a KRAS G12C small molecule inhibitor. It is being investigated as a treatment for a variety of solid tumors, including NSCLC and colorectal cancer. 

AMG 714/PRV-015

AMG 714/PRV-015 is a human monoclonal antibody that binds to interleukin-15. It is being investigated for the treatment of celiac disease. Amgen reacquired the AMG 714 program in 2017. AMG 714/PRV-015 is being developed jointly in collaboration with Provention Bio. 

19

ABP 798

ABP 798, a biosimilar candidate to rituximab (Rituxan®/MabThera®), is an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for rheumatoid arthritis and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. The reference-product primary conditions are non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and rheumatoid arthritis. ABP 798 is being developed in collaboration with Allergan.

ABP 959

ABP 959, a biosimilar candidate to eculizumab (Soliris®), is a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to the complement protein C5. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH). The reference-product primary conditions are PNH and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS). 

Business Relationships

From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R&D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we acquire product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements generally provide for nonrefundable, upfront license fees, development and commercial-performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under these collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature.

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon commencement of a business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or unlawfully obtain access to our information.

Novartis

We are in a collaboration with Novartis to jointly develop and commercialize Aimovig®. In the United States, Amgen and Novartis jointly develop and collaborate on the commercialization of Aimovig®. Amgen, as the principal, recognizes product sales of Aimovig® in the United States, shares U.S. commercialization costs with Novartis and pays Novartis a significant royalty on net sales in the United States. Novartis holds global co-development rights and exclusive commercial rights outside the United States and Japan for Aimovig® and other specified migraine programs. Novartis pays Amgen double-digit royalties on net sales of the products in the Novartis exclusive territories and funds a portion of global R&D expenses. In addition, Novartis will make a payment to Amgen of up to $100 million if certain commercial and expenditure thresholds are achieved with respect to Aimovig® in the United States. Amgen manufactures and supplies Aimovig® worldwide.

We are currently involved in litigation with Novartis over our collaboration agreements for the development and commercialization of Aimovig®. See Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Bayer HealthCare LLC

We are in a collaboration with Bayer HealthCare LLC (Bayer) to jointly develop and commercialize Nexavar® (sorafenib). In 2015, we amended the terms of our collaboration agreement with Bayer, which terminated the co-promotion agreement in the United States and transferred all U.S. operational responsibilities to Bayer, including commercial and medical affairs activities. Prior to the termination of the co-promotion agreement, we co-promoted Nexavar® with Bayer and shared equally in the profits in the United States. In lieu of this profit share, Bayer now pays us a royalty on U.S. sales of Nexavar® at a percentage rate in the high 30s. Outside the United States and Japan, Bayer manages all commercialization activities and incurs all sales and marketing expenditures and mutually agreed R&D expenses, and we reimburse Bayer for half of those expenditures. In all countries outside the United States and Japan, we receive 50% of net profits on sales of Nexavar® after deducting certain Bayer-related costs. The rights to develop and market Nexavar® in Japan are reserved to Bayer.

DaVita Inc.

In January 2017, we entered into a six-year supply agreement with DaVita Inc. (DaVita), which superseded the previously existing, seven-year supply agreement that commenced in 2012. Pursuant to the 2017 agreement, we supply EPOGEN® and Aranesp® in amounts necessary to meet specified annual percentages of DaVita’s and its affiliates’ requirements for erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. Such percentages vary during the term of the agreement, but in each year are at least 90%. The agreement expires in 2022. The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain breaches of the agreement by the other party.

20

Human Resources

As of December 31, 2019, Amgen had approximately 23,400 staff members. We consider our staff relations to be good.

Information about our Executive Officers

The executive officers of the Company as of February 12, 2020, are set forth below. 

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 57, has served as a director of the Company since 2011 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2013. Mr. Bradway has been the Company’s President since 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since 2012. From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Bradway served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2007 to 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bradway was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London where, beginning in 2001, he had responsibility for the firm’s banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe. Mr. Bradway has been a director of The Boeing Company, an aerospace company and manufacturer of commercial airplanes, defense, space and securities systems, since 2016. He has served on the board of trustees of the University of Southern California since 2014 and on the advisory board of the Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics at that university since 2012. From 2011 to 2017, Mr. Bradway was a director of Norfolk Southern Corporation, a transportation company.

Mr. Murdo Gordon, age 53, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations, in 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gordon was the Chief Commercial Officer at BMS from 2016 to 2018. Mr. Gordon served as Head of Worldwide Markets at BMS from 2015 to 2016. Prior to this, Mr. Gordon served in a variety of leadership roles at BMS for more than 25 years.

Mr. Jonathan P. Graham, age 59, became Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2019. Mr. Graham joined the Company in 2015. From 2015 to 2019, Mr. Graham was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Amgen, from 2006 to 2015, Mr. Graham was Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Danaher Corporation. From 2004 to 2006, Mr. Graham was Vice President, Litigation and Legal Policy at General Electric Company (GE). Prior to GE, Mr. Graham was a partner at Williams & Connolly LLP.

Mr. Peter H. Griffith, age 61, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2020. Mr. Griffith joined the Company in 2019 as Executive Vice President, Finance. Prior to joining Amgen, Mr. Griffith was President of Sherwood Canyon Group, LLC. From 1997 to 2019, Mr. Griffith was a Partner at EY (formerly Ernst & Young) and served in a variety of senior leadership roles, with his last position being Global Vice Chair, Corporate Development. Prior to EY, Mr. Griffith was a Managing Director and head of the investment banking division of Wedbush Securities Inc.

Ms. Lori A. Johnston, age 55, became Executive Vice President, Human Resources, in 2019. From 2016 to 2019, Ms. Johnston served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From 2012 to 2016, Ms. Johnston was Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Celanese Corporation (Celanese). Prior to Celanese, Ms. Johnston served in a series of progressive leadership roles at Amgen from 2001 to 2012, with her last position being Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Johnston held human resources and other positions at Dell Inc.

Ms. Cynthia M. Patton, age 58, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in 2012. Ms. Patton joined the Company in 2005. From 2005 to 2010, Ms. Patton was Associate General Counsel. From 2010 to 2012, Ms. Patton was Vice President, Law. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Patton served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of SCAN Health Plan from 1999 to 2005.

Mr. David A. Piacquad, age 63, became Senior Vice President, Business Development in 2014. Mr. Piacquad joined the Company in 2010 and served as Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development until his appointment to the role of Vice President, Business Development in 2014. Prior to joining the Company, from 2009 to 2010, Mr. Piacquad was Principal of David A. Piacquad Consulting LLC. From 2006 to 2009, Mr. Piacquad served as Senior Vice President, Business Development and Licensing, for Schering-Plough Corporation (Schering-Plough). Prior to Schering-Plough, Mr. Piacquad served in a series of leadership roles in finance and business development at J&J, with his last position being Vice President, Ventures and Business Development.

Dr. David M. Reese, age 57, became Executive Vice President, R&D, in 2018. Dr. Reese joined the Company in 2005 and has held leadership roles in development, medical sciences and discovery research. Dr. Reese was Senior Vice President, Translational Sciences and Oncology from 2017 to 2018 and Senior Vice President, Translational Sciences from 2015 to 2017. Prior to joining Amgen, Dr. Reese was director of Clinical Research for the Breast Cancer International Research Group from 2001 to 2003 and a cofounder, president and chief medical officer of Translational Oncology Research International, a not-for-profit academic clinical research organization, from 2003 to 2005. Dr. Reese previously served on the faculty at University of California, Los Angeles, and the University of California, San Francisco.

21

Mr. Esteban Santos, age 52, became Executive Vice President, Operations in 2016. Mr. Santos joined the Company in 2007 as Executive Director, Manufacturing Technologies. From 2008 to 2013, Mr. Santos held a number of vice president roles at the Company in engineering, manufacturing, site operations and drug product. From 2013 to 2016, Mr. Santos was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Santos served as Site General Manager of J&J Cordis operation in Puerto Rico. Prior to J&J, Mr. Santos held several management positions in GE’s industrial and transportation businesses.

Geographic Area Financial Information

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Part IV—Note 3, Revenues and Note 11, Property, plant and equipment, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investor Information

Financial and other information about us is available on our website at www.amgen.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected without charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. (These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing.) 

Item 1A.RISK FACTORS