Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the “Forward-Looking Statements,” our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes that follow and the “Consolidated Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data” and the “Risk Factors” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. References to “Ameriprise Financial,” “Ameriprise,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries.

Overview

Ameriprise is a diversified financial services company with a 125-year history of providing financial solutions. We are a long-standing leader in financial planning and advice with $973 billion in assets under management and administration as of December 31, 2019. We offer a broad range of products and services designed to achieve individual and institutional clients’ financial objectives. For additional discussion of our businesses, see Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The products and services we provide retail clients and, to a lesser extent, institutional clients, are the primary source of our revenues and net income. Revenues and net income are significantly affected by investment performance and the total value and composition of assets we manage and administer for our retail and institutional clients as well as the distribution fees we receive from other companies. These factors, in turn, are largely determined by overall investment market performance and the depth and breadth of our individual client relationships.

Financial markets and macroeconomic conditions have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our operating and performance results. In addition, the business, political and regulatory environments in which we operate are subject to elevated uncertainty and substantial, frequent change. Accordingly, we expect to continue focusing on our key strategic objectives and obtaining operational and strategic leverage from our core capabilities. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the factors discussed in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K - “Risk Factors” - and other factors as discussed herein.

Equity price, credit market and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset-based fees we earn, the “spread” income generated on our fixed deferred annuities, fixed insurance, deposit products and the fixed portion of variable annuities and variable insurance contracts, the value of deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”) and deferred sales inducement costs (“DSIC”) assets, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits.

Earnings, as well as adjusted operating earnings, will be negatively impacted by the ongoing low interest rate environment should it continue. In addition to continuing spread compression in our interest sensitive product lines, a sustained low interest rate environment may result in increases to our reserves and changes in various rate assumptions we use to amortize DAC and DSIC, which may negatively impact our adjusted operating earnings. For additional discussion on our interest rate risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”

In the third quarter, we update our market-related assumptions and implement model changes related to our living benefit valuation. In addition, we conduct our annual review of life insurance and annuity valuation assumptions relative to current experience and management expectations including modeling changes. These aforementioned changes are collectively referred to as unlocking. We also review our active life future policy benefit reserve adequacy for our long term care (“LTC”) business in the third quarter. See our Consolidated and Segment Results of Operations sections for the pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses attributable to unlocking and LTC loss recognition.

On October 1, 2019, we completed the sale of our Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance business (“AAH”) to American Family Insurance Mutual Holding Company (American Family Insurance). See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the sale of AAH. This sale is consistent with our focus on our core growth areas of Advice & Wealth Management and Asset Management. 

In 2018, we made the strategic decision to expand the banking products and services we can provide directly to our clients, and commenced the process to convert Ameriprise National Trust Bank into a federal savings bank with the capabilities to offer FDIC insured deposits and a range of lending products. We completed that process, received regulatory approvals and converted Ameriprise National Trust Bank to a federal savings bank in May 2019.

We consolidate certain variable interest entities for which we provide asset management services. These entities are defined as consolidated investment entities (“CIEs”). While the consolidation of the CIEs impacts our balance sheet and income statement, our exposure to these entities is unchanged and there is no impact to the underlying business results. For further information on CIEs, see Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The results of operations of the CIEs are reflected in the Corporate & Other segment. On a consolidated basis, the management fees we earn for the services we provide to the CIEs and the related general and administrative expenses are eliminated and the changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities related to the CIEs, primarily syndicated loans and debt, are reflected in net investment income. We include the fees from these entities in the management and financial advice fees line within our Asset Management segment. 

While our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), management believes that adjusted operating measures, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, net of the related DSIC and DAC amortization, unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual; the market impact on variable 

 45

annuity guaranteed benefits, net of hedges and the related DSIC and DAC amortization; the market impact on indexed universal life (“IUL”) benefits, net of hedges and the related DAC amortization, unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual; the market impact on fixed index annuity benefits, net of hedges and the related DAC amortization; mean reversion related impacts; the market impact of hedges to offset interest rate changes on unrealized gains or losses for certain investments; gain or loss on disposal of a business that is not considered discontinued operations; integration and restructuring charges; income (loss) from discontinued operations; and the impact of consolidating CIEs, best reflect the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance on a basis comparable to that used by some securities analysts and investors. Also, certain of these non-GAAP measures are taken into consideration, to varying degrees, for purposes of business planning and analysis and for certain compensation-related matters. Throughout our Management’s Discussion and Analysis, these non-GAAP measures are referred to as adjusted operating measures. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as a substitute for U.S. GAAP measures. Effective first quarter of 2019, management has excluded mean reversion related impacts from our adjusted operating measures. Prior periods have been updated to reflect this change to be consistent with the current period presentation. The mean reversion related impact is defined as the impact on variable annuity and variable universal life (“VUL”) products for the difference between assumed and updated separate account investment performance on DAC, DSIC, unearned revenue amortization, reinsurance accrual and additional insurance benefit reserves. The updated separate account investment performance includes actual investment performance in the current period and the impact of changes in financial market conditions on the assumptions for future investment performance.

It is management’s priority to increase shareholder value over a multi-year horizon by achieving our on-average, over-time financial targets.

Our financial targets are:

•Adjusted operating earnings per diluted share growth of 12% to 15%, and 

•Adjusted operating return on equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) of over 30%.

The following tables reconcile our GAAP measures to adjusted operating measures:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Pretax adjusted operating adjustments.

(2) Calculated using the statutory tax rate of 21%.

 46

The following table reconciles net income to adjusted operating earnings and the five-point average of quarter-end equity to adjusted operating equity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Adjustments reflect the sum of after-tax net realized investment gains/losses, net of DSIC and DAC amortization, unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual; the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits, net of hedges and related DSIC and DAC amortization; the market impact on IUL benefits, net of hedges and the related DAC amortization, unearned revenue amortization, and the reinsurance accrual; the market impact on fixed index annuity benefits, net of hedges and the related DAC amortization; mean reversion related impacts; the market impact of hedges to offset interest rate changes on unrealized gains or losses for certain investments; gain or loss on disposal of a business that is not considered discontinued operations; integration and restructuring charges; income (loss) from discontinued operations; and net income (loss) from consolidated investment entities. After-tax is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 21%.

(2) Adjusted operating return on equity, excluding AOCI is calculated using adjusted operating earnings in the numerator and Ameriprise Financial shareholders’ equity, excluding AOCI and the impact of consolidating investment entities using a five-point average of quarter-end equity in the denominator. After-tax is calculated using the statutory rate of 21%.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The accounting and reporting policies that we use affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting and reporting policies are critical to an understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition and, in some cases, the application of these policies can be significantly affected by the estimates, judgments and assumptions made by management during the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting and reporting policies and estimates we have identified as fundamental to a full understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition are described below. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about our accounting policies.

Valuation of Investments

The most significant component of our investments is our Available-for-Sale securities, which we carry at fair value within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the fair value of our Available-for-Sale securities. Financial markets are subject to significant movements in valuation and liquidity, which can impact our ability to liquidate and the selling price that can be realized for our securities and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain investments.

Deferred Acquisition Costs

See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of our DAC accounting policy.

Non-Traditional Long-Duration Products

For our non-traditional long-duration products (including variable and fixed deferred annuity contracts, universal life (“UL”) and VUL insurance products), our DAC balance at any reporting date is based on projections that show management expects there to be estimated gross profits (“EGPs”) after that date to amortize the remaining balance. These projections are inherently uncertain because they require management to make assumptions about financial markets, mortality levels and contractholder and policyholder behavior over periods extending well into the future. Projection periods used for our annuity products are typically 30 to 50 years and for our UL insurance products 50 years or longer. 

EGPs vary based on persistency rates (assumptions at which contractholders and policyholders are expected to surrender, make withdrawals from and make deposits to their contracts), mortality levels, client asset value growth rates (based on equity and bond market performance), variable annuity benefit utilization and interest margins (the spread between earned rates on invested assets and rates credited to contractholder and policyholder accounts). Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and we are unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. When assumptions are changed, the percentage of EGPs used to amortize DAC might also change. A change in the required amortization percentage is applied retrospectively; an increase in amortization percentage 

 47

will result in a decrease in the DAC balance and an increase in DAC amortization expense, while a decrease in amortization percentage will result in an increase in the DAC balance and a decrease in DAC amortization expense. The effect on the DAC balance that would result from the realization of unrealized gains (losses) on securities is recognized with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet.

The client asset value growth rates are the rates at which variable annuity and VUL insurance contract values invested in separate accounts are assumed to appreciate in the future. The rates used vary by equity and fixed income investments. The long-term client asset value growth rates are based on assumed gross annual returns of 9% for equity funds and 6.9% for fixed income funds. We typically use a five-year mean reversion process as a guideline in setting near-term equity fund growth rates based on a long-term view of financial market performance as well as recent actual performance. The suggested near-term equity fund growth rate is reviewed quarterly to ensure consistency with management’s assessment of anticipated equity market performance.

A decrease of 100 basis points in separate account fund growth rate assumptions is likely to result in an increase in DAC amortization and an increase in benefits and claims expense for variable annuity and VUL insurance contracts. The following table presents the estimated impact to current period pretax income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) An increase in the above assumptions by 100 basis points would result in an increase to pretax income for approximately the same amount.

An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results.

Traditional Long-Duration Products

For our traditional long-duration products (including traditional life and disability income (“DI”) insurance products), our DAC balance at any reporting date is based on projections that show management expects there to be adequate premiums after the date to amortize the remaining balance. These projections are inherently uncertain because they require management to make assumptions over periods extending well into the future. These assumptions include interest rates, persistency rates and mortality and morbidity rates and are not modified (unlocked) unless recoverability testing determines that reserves are inadequate. Projection periods used for our traditional life insurance are up to 30 years. Projection periods for our DI products are up to 45 years. We may experience accelerated amortization of DAC if policies terminate earlier than projected or a slower rate of amortization of DAC if policies persist longer than projected.

For traditional life and DI insurance products, the assumptions provide for adverse deviations in experience and are revised only if management concludes experience will be so adverse that DAC are not recoverable. If management concludes that DAC are not recoverable, DAC are reduced to the amount that is recoverable based on best estimate assumptions. 

Future Policy Benefits and Claims

We establish reserves to cover the risks associated with non-traditional and traditional long-duration products. Non-traditional long-duration products include variable annuity contracts, fixed annuity contracts and UL and VUL policies. Traditional long-duration products include term life, whole life, DI and LTC insurance products. 

Guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities include GMDB, GGU, GMIB and the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB. In addition, UL and VUL policies with product features that result in profits followed by losses are accounted for as insurance liabilities.

Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives include GMAB and the non-life contingent benefits associated with GMWB. In addition, the portion of indexed annuities and IUL policies allocated to the indexed account is accounted for as an embedded derivative.

The establishment of reserves is an estimation process using a variety of methods, assumptions and data elements. If actual experience is better than or equal to the results of the estimation process, then reserves should be adequate to provide for future benefits and expenses. If actual experience is worse than the results of the estimation process, additional reserves may be required.

Non-Traditional Long-Duration Products, including Embedded Derivatives

UL and VUL

A portion of our UL and VUL policies have product features that result in profits followed by losses from the insurance component of the contract. These profits followed by losses can be generated by the cost structure of the product or secondary guarantees in the contract. The secondary guarantee ensures that, subject to specified conditions, the policy will not terminate and will continue to 

 48

provide a death benefit even if there is insufficient policy value to cover the monthly deductions and charges. The liability for these future losses is determined using actuarial models to estimate the death benefits in excess of account value and the expected assessments (e.g. cost of insurance charges, contractual administrative charges, similar fees and investment margin). Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and assessments relate to client asset value growth rates, mortality, persistency and investment margins and are consistent with those used for DAC valuation for the same contracts. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the liability for contracts with secondary guarantees.

Variable Annuities

We have approximately $80 billion of variable annuity account value that has been issued over a period of more than fifty years. The diversified variable annuity block consists of $29 billion of account value with no living benefit guarantees and $51 billion of account value with living benefit guarantees, primarily guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) provisions. The business is predominately issued through the Ameriprise Financial® advisor network. The majority of the variable annuity contracts offered by us contain GMDB provisions. We also offer variable annuities with death benefit provisions that gross up the amount payable by a certain percentage of contract earnings which are referred to as gain gross-up (“GGU”) benefits. In addition, we offer contracts with GMWB and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (“GMAB”) provisions and, until May 2007, we offered contracts containing guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) provisions. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our variable annuity contracts.

In determining the liabilities for GMDB, GGU, GMIB and the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB, we project these benefits and contract assessments using actuarial models to simulate various equity market scenarios. Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and assessments relate to customer asset value growth rates, mortality, persistency, benefit utilization and investment margins and are consistent with those used for DAC valuation for the same contracts. As with DAC, management reviews, and where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions each quarter. Unless management identifies a material deviation over the course of quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. 

Regarding the exposure to variable annuity living benefit guarantees, the source of behavioral risk is driven by changes in policyholder surrenders and utilization of guaranteed withdrawal benefits. We have extensive experience studies and analysis to monitor changes and trends in policyholder behavior. A significant volume of company-specific policyholder experience data is available and provides management with the ability to regularly analyze policyholder behavior. On a monthly basis, actual surrender and benefit utilization experience is compared to expectations. Experience data includes detailed policy information providing the opportunity to review impacts of multiple variables. The ability to analyze differences in experience, such as presence of a living benefit rider, existence of surrender charges, and tax qualifications provide us an effective approach in quickly detecting changes in policyholder behavior.

At least annually, we perform a thorough policyholder behavior analysis to validate the assumptions included in our benefit reserve, embedded derivative and DAC balances. The variable annuity assumptions and resulting reserve computations reflect multiple policyholder variables. Differentiation in assumptions by policyholder age, existence of surrender charges, guaranteed withdrawal utilization, and tax qualification are examples of factors recognized in establishing management’s assumptions used in reserve calculations. The extensive data derived from our variable annuity block informs management in confirming previous assumptions and revising the variable annuity behavior assumptions. Changes in assumptions are governed by a review and approval process to ensure an appropriate measurement of all impacted financial statement balances. 

See the table in the previous discussion of “Deferred Acquisition Costs” for the estimated impact to benefits and claims expense related to variable annuity and VUL insurance contracts resulting from a decrease of 100 basis points in separate account fund growth rate assumptions.

Embedded Derivatives

The fair value of embedded derivatives related to GMAB and the non-life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions fluctuate based on equity, interest rate and credit markets which can cause these embedded derivatives to be either an asset or a liability. The fair value of embedded derivatives related to indexed annuities and IUL fluctuate based on equity markets and interest rates and is a liability. In addition, embedded derivatives are impacted by an estimate of our nonperformance risk adjustment. This estimate includes a spread over the LIBOR swap curve as of the balance sheet date. As our estimate of this spread over LIBOR widens or tightens, the liability will decrease or increase. 

Additionally, our Corporate Actuarial Department calculates the fair value of the embedded derivatives on a monthly basis. During this process, control checks are performed to validate the completeness of the data. Actuarial management approves various components of the valuation along with the final results. The change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives is reviewed monthly with senior management. 

See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the fair value measurement of embedded derivatives. 

Traditional Long-Duration Products

Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported DI and LTC claims include any periodic or other benefit amounts due and accrued, along with estimates of the present value of obligations for continuing benefit payments. These unpaid amounts are calculated using anticipated claim continuance rates based on established industry tables, adjusted as appropriate for our experience. The discount rates used to calculate present values are based on average interest rates earned on assets supporting the liability for unpaid amounts. 

 49

Liabilities for estimates of benefits that will become payable on future claims on term life, whole life and DI policies are based on the net level premium and LTC policies are based on a gross premium valuation reflecting management’s current best estimate assumptions. Net level premium includes anticipated premium payments, mortality and morbidity rates, policy persistency and interest rates earned on assets supporting the liability. Gross premium valuation includes expected premium rate increases, benefit reductions, morbidity rates, policy persistency and interest rates earned on assets supporting the liability. Anticipated mortality and morbidity rates are based on established industry mortality and morbidity tables, with modifications based on our experience. Anticipated premium payments and persistency rates vary by policy form, issue age, policy duration and certain other pricing factors. 

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to various market risks. All derivatives are recorded at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is determined using either market quotes or valuation models that are based upon the net present value of estimated future cash flows and incorporate current market observable inputs to the extent available.

For further details on the types of derivatives we use and how we account for them, see Note 2, Note 15 and Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. For discussion of our market risk exposures and hedging program and related sensitivity testing, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

For information regarding recent accounting pronouncements and their expected impact on our future consolidated results of operations and financial condition, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sources of Revenues and Expenses

Management and Financial Advice Fees

Management and financial advice fees relate primarily to fees earned from managing mutual funds, private funds, separate account and wrap account assets and institutional investments, as well as fees earned from providing financial advice, administrative services (including transfer agent and administration fees earned from providing services to retail mutual funds) and other custodial services. Management and financial advice fees include performance-based incentive management fees, which we may receive on certain management contracts. Management and financial advice fees also include mortality and expense risk fees.

Distribution Fees

Distribution fees primarily include point-of-sale fees (such as mutual fund front-end sales loads) and asset-based fees (such as 12b-1 distribution and shareholder service fees). Distribution fees also include amounts received under marketing support arrangements for sales of mutual funds and other companies’ products, such as through our wrap accounts, as well as surrender charges on annuities and UL and VUL insurance.

Net Investment Income

Net investment income primarily includes interest income on fixed maturity securities classified as Available-for-Sale, mortgage loans, policy loans, margin loans, other investments, cash and cash equivalents and investments of consolidated investment entities (“CIEs”); the changes in fair value of trading securities, certain derivatives and certain assets and liabilities of CIEs; the pro rata share of net income or loss on equity method investments; and realized gains and losses on the sale of investments and charges for other-than-temporary impairments of investments related to credit losses. 

Premiums

Premiums include premiums on auto and home insurance, traditional life, DI and LTC insurance and immediate annuities with a life contingent feature and are net of reinsurance premiums. We sold AAH on October 1, 2019.

Other Revenues

Other revenues primarily include variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges and UL and VUL insurance charges, which consist of cost of insurance charges (net of reinsurance premiums and cost of reinsurance for UL insurance products) and administrative charges. 

For discussion of our accounting policies on revenue recognition, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Banking and Deposit Interest Expense

Banking and deposit interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to investment certificates and banking deposits. The changes in fair value of stock market certificate embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging stock market certificates are included within banking and deposit interest expense. 

Distribution Expenses

Distribution expenses primarily include compensation paid to our financial advisors, registered representatives, third-party distributors and wholesalers. The portion of these costs which are incremental and direct to the acquisition of a new or renewal insurance policy or annuity contract issued by the RiverSource Life companies are deferred. The amounts capitalized and amortized are based on actual distribution costs. The majority of these costs, such as advisor and wholesaler compensation, vary directly with the level of sales. Distribution expenses also include marketing support and other distribution and administration related payments made to affiliated and unaffiliated distributors of products provided by our affiliates. The majority of these expenses vary with the level of sales, or assets held, by these distributors, and the remainder is fixed. Distribution expenses also include wholesaling costs.

 50

Interest Credited to Fixed Accounts

Interest credited to fixed accounts represents amounts earned by contractholders and policyholders on fixed account values associated with UL and VUL insurance and annuity contracts. The changes in fair value of indexed annuity and IUL embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging these products are also included within interest credited to fixed accounts.

Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses

Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses consist of amounts paid and changes in liabilities held for anticipated future benefit payments under insurance policies and annuity contracts, along with costs to process and pay such amounts. Amounts are net of benefit payments recovered or expected to be recovered under reinsurance contracts. Benefits under variable annuity guarantees include the changes in fair value of GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging these benefits, as well as the changes in fair value of derivatives hedging GMDB provisions. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses also include amortization of DSIC.

Amortization of DAC

Direct sales commissions and other costs capitalized as DAC are amortized over time. For annuity and UL/VUL contracts, DAC are amortized based on projections of EGPs over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the premium-paying period.

Interest and Debt Expense

Interest and debt expense primarily includes interest on corporate debt and CIE debt, the impact of interest rate hedging activities and amortization of debt issuance costs.

General and Administrative Expense

General and administrative expense includes compensation, share-based awards and other benefits for employees (other than employees directly related to distribution, such as financial advisors), professional and consultant fees, information technology, facilities and equipment, advertising and promotion, legal and regulatory and corporate related expenses.

Assets Under Management and Administration

Assets under management (“AUM”) include external client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the Columbia Threadneedle Investments funds, institutional clients and clients in our advisor platform held in wrap accounts as well as assets managed by sub-advisors selected by us. AUM also includes certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees in our Asset Management segment, such as the assets of the general account and the variable product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries and CIEs. These assets do not include assets under advisement, for which we provide advisory services such as model portfolios but do not have full discretionary investment authority.

Assets under administration (“AUA”) include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies’ products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients’ brokerage accounts. We generally record revenues received from administered assets as distribution fees. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. AUA also includes certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non-affiliated funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries. These assets do not include assets under advisement, for which we provide advisory services such as model portfolios but do not have full discretionary investment authority.

The following table presents detail regarding our AUM and AUA:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total AUM increased $123.9 billion, or 19%, to $778.1 billion as of December 31, 2019 compared to $654.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 due to a $65.3 billion increase in Advice & Wealth Management AUM driven by market appreciation and wrap account net inflows and a $63.5 billion increase in Asset Management AUM driven by market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows and retail fund distributions. See our segment results of operations discussion for additional information on changes in our AUM.

 51

Consolidated Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 

The following table presents our consolidated results of operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Overall

Pretax income decreased $252 million, or 10%, to $2.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $2.5 billion for the prior year. The following impacts were significant drivers of the year-over-year change in pretax income:

•The market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC and DAC amortization) was an expense of $579 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to an expense of $31 million for the prior year.

•The market impact of hedges on investments was an expense of $35 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to a benefit of $11 million for the prior year.

•A $49 million unfavorable change in the mark-to-market impact on share-based compensation expenses.

•Higher mark-to-market impact on advisor deferred compensation expense and investments in recruiting experienced advisors.

•An increase in general and administrative expenses for our Advice & Wealth Management segment related to investments in business growth.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The cumulative impact of asset management net outflows, partially offset by wrap account net inflows.

•A gain of $213 million recognized on the sale of AAH on October 1, 2019.

•A positive impact from higher average equity markets and higher average short-term interest rates. 

•The mean reversion related impact was a benefit of $57 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to an expense of $33 million for the prior year.

•The unfavorable impact of unlocking and LTC loss recognition was $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $53 million for the prior year.

 52

The following table presents the total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses attributable to unlocking and LTC loss recognition for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes a $4 million and $5 million net benefit related to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which is excluded from adjusted operating earnings. Refer to Results of Operations by Segment for the impact to pretax adjusted operating earnings attributable to unlocking and LTC loss recognition.

The unfavorable unlocking impact in 2019 primarily reflected the impact from updates to our interest rate assumptions and lower surrenders on annuity contracts with a withdrawal benefit partially offset by a benefit from changes in equity market volatility and correlation assumptions on variable annuities. The unfavorable unlocking impact in the prior year primarily reflected unfavorable mortality experience on universal life (“UL”) and VUL insurance products and lower surrender rate assumptions on variable annuities partially offset by the impact from updates to assumptions on utilization of guaranteed withdrawal benefits.

The unfavorable LTC unlocking and loss recognition in 2019 was primarily due to the impact from updates to our interest rates assumptions and changes in morbidity experience partially offset by higher approved and expected premium rate increases and benefit reductions. The unfavorable LTC unlocking and loss recognition in the prior year was primarily due to changes in morbidity experience partially offset by approved, pending and future expected premium rate increases.

The unfavorable impact of updates to our interest rate assumptions noted above for unlocking and LTC loss recognition was $118 million. Based on the significant recent interest rate dislocation, we extended the grading period one year to reach our ultimate 10-year treasury rate of 5% by assuming rates remain flat for six months and then grade to our long-term rate over the next three years. 

Net Revenues

Net revenues increased $132 million, or 1%, to $13.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $12.8 billion for the prior year. 

Management and financial advice fees increased $239 million, or 4%, to $7.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $6.8 billion for the prior year primarily due to higher average equity markets, wrap account net inflows and a $57 million increase in performance fees, partially offset by asset management net outflows and a $27 million negative foreign currency translation impact.

Distribution fees increased $42 million, or 2%, to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year reflecting higher average equity markets and higher earnings on brokerage cash due to an increase in average short-term interest rates, partially offset by asset management net outflows.

Net investment income decreased $133 million, or 8%, to $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.6 billion for the prior year primarily due to the following impacts:

•A $46 million unfavorable change in the market impact of hedges on investments.

•A $43 million decrease in net investment income of CIEs.

•Net realized investment losses of $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to net realized investment gains of $10 million for the prior year.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The unfavorable impact of fixed annuity net outflows and the fixed annuities reinsurance transaction.

•The favorable impact of higher average invested assets related to the bank and certificates and higher average investment yields related to certificates. 

Premiums decreased $212 million, or 15%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.4 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting the sale of AAH. Premiums for the year ended December 31, 2019 included $827 million from Auto and Home for the nine months prior to sale on October 1, 2019 compared to $1.0 billion for the prior year.

 53

Other revenues increased $30 million, or 2%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year primarily due to accretion on our fixed annuities reinsurance deposit receivable, an increase in variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges, a $7 million gain on the sale of real estate in the third quarter of 2019 and a $7 million expense in the prior year related to a modification of costs within a reinsurance contract, partially offset by the impact of unlocking. Other revenues for 2019 included a $5 million favorable impact from unlocking compared to a $78 million favorable impact in the prior year. The unlocking impact for 2019 reflected updates to our interest rate assumptions. The primary driver of the unlocking impact for the prior year was higher projected gains on reinsurance contracts resulting from unfavorable mortality experience on UL and VUL insurance products. 

Gain on disposal of business of $213 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 was recognized on the sale of AAH, net of an affinity partner payment of $100 million.

Banking and deposit interest expense increased $47 million, or 53%, to $136 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $89 million for the prior year due to interest expense on banking deposits, higher average certificate balances and higher average crediting rates on certificates.

Expenses

Total expenses increased $384 million, or 4%, to $10.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $10.4 billion for the prior year.

Distribution expenses increased $173 million, or 5%, to $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $3.6 billion for the prior year reflecting higher advisor compensation due to wrap account net inflows, higher average markets, higher mark-to-market impact on advisor deferred compensation expense and investments in recruiting experienced advisors, partially offset by the impact of asset management net outflows. 

Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $274 million, or 12%, to $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $2.3 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting the following items:

•A $425 million increase in expense from the unhedged nonperformance credit spread risk adjustment on variable annuity guaranteed benefits. The unfavorable impact of the nonperformance credit spread was $175 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to a favorable impact of $250 million for the prior year. As the estimate of the nonperformance credit spread over the LIBOR swap curve tightens or widens, the embedded derivative liability will increase or decrease. As the embedded derivative liability on which the nonperformance credit spread is applied increases (decreases), the impact of the nonperformance credit spread is favorable (unfavorable) to expense. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Equity market impact on the variable annuity guaranteed living benefits liability net of the impact on the corresponding hedge assets resulted in a higher expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year.

•Interest rate impact on the variable annuity guaranteed living benefits liability net of the impact on the corresponding hedge assets resulted in a higher expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year.

•Volatility impact on the variable annuity guaranteed living benefits liability net of the impact on the corresponding hedge assets resulted in a higher expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year.

•Other unhedged items, including the difference between the assumed and actual underlying separate account investment performance, fixed income credit exposures, transaction costs and various contractholder behavioral items, were a net favorable impact compared to the prior year. 

•The impact of unlocking excluding LTC was a benefit of $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to an expense of $112 million for the prior year. The unlocking impact for 2019 primarily reflected a benefit from changes in equity market volatility and correlation assumptions on variable annuities, partially offset by updates to our interest rate assumptions and lower surrenders on annuity contracts with a withdrawal benefit. The unlocking impact for the prior year primarily reflected unfavorable mortality experience on UL and VUL insurance products and lower surrender rate assumptions on variable annuities, partially offset by a favorable impact from updates to assumptions on utilization of guaranteed withdrawal benefits. 

•Our annual review of LTC active life future policy benefit reserve adequacy in 2019 resulted in unlocking and loss recognition of $8 million compared to $52 million in the prior year. The unlocking and loss recognition in 2019 was primarily due to the impact from updates to our interest rates assumptions and changes in morbidity experience, partially offset by higher approved and expected premium rate increases and benefit reductions. The unlocking and loss recognition in the prior year was primarily due to changes in morbidity experience, partially offset by approved, pending and future expected premium rate increases. 

•A $204 million decrease in auto and home expenses primarily reflecting the sale of AAH.

•The mean reversion related impact was a benefit of $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to an expense of $12 million for the prior year.

 54

Amortization of DAC decreased $143 million, or 44%, to $179 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $322 million for the prior year primarily reflecting the following items:

•The DAC offset to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits was a benefit of $82 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to an expense of $23 million for the prior year.

•The mean reversion related impact was a benefit of $31 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to an expense of $21 million for the prior year.

•A $10 million decrease in auto and home expenses primarily reflecting the sale of AAH.

•A favorable impact from normal year over year experience differences for variable annuities.

•The impact of unlocking in 2019 was an expense of $14 million and reflected updates to our interest rate assumptions, partially offset by a favorable impact from lower surrenders on annuity contracts with a withdrawal benefit. The impact of unlocking in the prior year was a benefit of $33 million and primarily reflected updated mortality assumptions on UL and VUL insurance products and lower surrender rate assumptions on variable annuities, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from updates to assumptions on utilization of guaranteed withdrawal benefits.

Interest and debt expense decreased $31 million, or 13%, to $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $245 million for the prior year primarily due to a decrease in interest expense of CIEs. 

General and administrative expense increased $116 million, or 4%, to $3.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $3.2 billion for the prior year primarily due to a $49 million unfavorable change in the mark-to-market impact on share-based compensation expenses, a $28 million increase in compensation related to higher performance fees, bank-related expenses, investments in business growth and a $13 million increase in severance, partially offset by a $15 million positive foreign currency translation impact and a $25 million decrease in auto and home expenses primarily reflecting the sale of AAH.

Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate was 15.2% for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 15.5% for the prior year. Net excess tax benefits related to employee share-based payments was a benefit of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $25 million for the prior year. See Note 24 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on income taxes.

 55

Results of Operations by Segment

Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 

Adjusted operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss management uses to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP pretax income. We believe the presentation of segment adjusted operating earnings as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our business by reflecting the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitating a more meaningful trend analysis. See Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the presentation of segment results and our definition of adjusted operating earnings.

The following table presents summary financial information by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table presents the segment pretax adjusted operating impacts on our revenues and expenses attributable to unlocking and LTC loss recognition for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 56

Advice & Wealth Management

The following table presents the changes in wrap account assets and average balances for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Advisory wrap account assets represent those assets for which clients receive advisory services and are the primary driver of revenue earned on wrap accounts. Clients may hold non-advisory investments in their wrap accounts that do not incur an advisory fee. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2019, all advisory fee billing is calculated in advance on a monthly basis using point-in-time assets. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2019, some advisory accounts billed in arrears on a quarterly or monthly basis using average daily assets. 

(2) Average ending balances are calculated using an average of the prior period’s ending balance and all months in the current period.

Wrap account assets increased $66.0 billion, or 26%, during the year ended December 31, 2019 due to net inflows of $17.6 billion and market appreciation and other of $48.4 billion. Average advisory wrap account assets increased $29.8 billion, or 12%, compared to the prior year reflecting net inflows and market appreciation.

The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment on an adjusted operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax adjusted operating earnings, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, increased $120 million, or 9%, to $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.4 billion for the prior year reflecting wrap account net inflows, average equity market appreciation and higher earnings on brokerage cash, partially offset by higher expenses from continued investments for growth and higher mark-to-market impact on advisor deferred compensation expenses. Pretax adjusted operating margin was 22.9% for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 22.4% for the prior year.

We launched Ameriprise Bank, FSB in the second quarter of 2019 and continued to add deposits during the year, with $3.8 billion of cash sweep balances as of December 31, 2019. In the third quarter of 2019, we purchased the existing Ameriprise portfolio of credit card accounts from a third party bank. 

Net Revenues

Net revenues exclude net realized investment gains or losses. Net revenues increased $410 million, or 7%, to $6.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $6.2 billion for the prior year. Adjusted operating net revenue per advisor increased to $664,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019, up 6%, from $624,000 for the prior year. 

 57

Management and financial fees increased $303 million, or 9%, to $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $3.5 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in wrap account assets. Average advisory wrap account assets increased $29.8 billion, or 12%, compared to the prior year reflecting net inflows and market appreciation.

Distribution fees increased $40 million, or 2%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $2.2 billion for the prior year reflecting higher earnings on brokerage cash due to an increase in average short-term interest rates, partially offset by decreased transactional activity and lower sales of variable annuities. We earned 198 basis points on brokerage cash balances for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 164 basis points for the prior year.

Net investment income increased $95 million, or 30%, to $411 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $316 million for the prior year primarily due to higher average invested assets due to the bank and certificates and higher average investment yields.

Banking and deposit interest expense increased $47 million, or 53%, to $136 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $89 million for the prior year due to interest expense on banking deposits, higher average certificate balances and higher average crediting rates on certificates. 

Expenses

Total expenses increased $290 million, or 6%, to $5.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $4.8 billion for the prior year.

Distribution expenses increased $193 million, or 5%, to $3.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $3.5 billion for the prior year reflecting higher advisor compensation due to wrap account net inflows and market appreciation, higher mark-to-market impact on advisor deferred compensation expense and investments in recruiting experienced advisors, partially offset by decreased transactional activity.

General and administrative expense increased $96 million, or 8%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year primarily due to bank-related expenses and investments in business growth.

Asset Management

The following tables present the mutual fund performance of our retail Columbia Threadneedle Investments funds as of December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 58

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mutual fund performance rankings are based on the performance of the Institutional Class for Columbia branded mutual funds. Only funds with Institutional Class shares are included. 

Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of funds. Asset size is not a factor.

Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the total assets of the funds with above median ranking divided by total assets of all funds. Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The performance of each fund is measured on a consistent basis against the most appropriate benchmark — a peer group of similar funds or an index. Prior period rankings have been adjusted to reflect foreign exchange forward and spot contract transactions executed by those funds, and also to include cash items primarily fee rebates, that were previously excluded from the gross performance calculations.

Equal weighted: Counts the number of funds with above median ranking (if measured against peer group) or above index performance (if measured against an index) divided by the total number of funds. Asset size is not a factor. 

Asset weighted: Sums the assets of the funds with above median ranking (if measured against peer group) or above index performance (if measured against an index) divided by the total sum of assets in the funds. Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median or index. 

Aggregated Allocation (Managed) Funds include funds that invest in other funds of the Threadneedle range including those funds that invest in both equity and fixed income. 

Aggregated Threadneedle data includes funds on the Threadneedle platform sub-advised by Columbia Management as well as advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc.

 59

The following table presents managed assets by type:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Average ending balances are calculated using an average of the prior period’s ending balance and all months in the current period. 

The following tables present the changes in global managed assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts represent local currency to US dollar translation for reporting purposes.

(2) Includes $4.6 billion and $0.6 billion for the total change in Affiliated General Account Assets during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(3) Former parent company related assets and net new flows are included in the rollforwards above.

The UK withdrew from the European Union (“EU”) on January 31, 2020, pursuant to a transitionary withdrawal agreement with the EU that in substance maintains the pre-withdrawal, status quo until the end of 2020. The full impact of the British exit from the EU 

 60

(commonly known as “Brexit”) and its related consequences remain uncertain, including with respect to ongoing negotiations between the UK and EU and new trade agreements with global trading partners. This uncertainty may have a negative impact on our UK and European net flows (as well as foreign currency translation if the British Pound weakens). 

Total segment AUM increased $63.5 billion, or 15%, during the year ended December 31, 2019 driven by market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows and retail fund distributions. Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) retail net outflows were $3.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 reflecting negative consumer sentiment associated with Brexit and geopolitical concerns in Europe. North America retail net inflows, which include reinvested dividends, were $3.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019, a $5.8 billion improvement compared to the prior year. Global institutional net outflows of $7.2 billion included $3.4 billion of outflows from former parent-related assets.

The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment on an adjusted operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Asset Management segment pretax adjusted operating earnings, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $67 million, or 9%, to $661 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $728 million for the prior year primarily due to the cumulative impact of net outflows and a vendor credit of $14 million in the prior year, partially offset by higher average markets and a $29 million increase in net performance fees. 

Net Revenues

Net revenues, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $98 million, or 3%, to $2.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $3.0 billion for the prior year.

Management and financial advice fees decreased $52 million, or 2%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year driven by cumulative net outflows and a $27 million negative foreign currency translation impact, partially offset by a $57 million increase in performance fees and higher average markets. Our average weighted equity index, which is a proxy for equity movements on AUM, increased 4% for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year. 

Distribution fees decreased $25 million, or 6%, to $408 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $433 million for the prior year due to the cumulative impact of net outflows, partially offset by higher average markets. 

Other revenues decreased $17 million, or 89%, to $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $19 million for the prior year due to a $14 million vendor credit in the prior year related to the completion of our front, middle and back-office integration.

Expenses

Total expenses decreased $31 million, or 1%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year. 

Distribution expenses decreased $33 million, or 3%, to $928 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $961 million for the prior year primarily due to the cumulative impact of net outflows, partially offset by higher average markets. 

 61

Annuities

The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment on an adjusted operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Annuities segment pretax adjusted operating income, which excludes net realized investment gains or losses (net of the related DSIC and DAC amortization), the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC and DAC amortization), the market impact on fixed index annuity benefits (net of hedges and the related DAC amortization) and mean reversion related impacts, was essentially flat at $497 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $496 million for the prior year. 

RiverSource® variable annuity account balances increased 11% to $80.1 billion as of December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year due to equity market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows of $3.2 billion. Variable annuity sales decreased 8% compared to the prior year.

RiverSource® fixed deferred annuity account balances declined 5% to $8.3 billion as of December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year as older policies continue to lapse and new sales are limited due to low interest rates. Given the current interest rate environment, our current fixed deferred annuity book is expected to gradually run off and earnings on our fixed deferred annuity business will trend down. We reinsured approximately 20% of our fixed annuities block during the first quarter of 2019. The reinsurance transaction generated $200 million of excess capital and has a marginal impact on fixed annuity adjusted pretax operating earnings.

Net Revenues

Net revenues, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $17 million, or 1%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year.

Net investment income, which excludes net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $90 million, or 14%, to $554 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $644 million for the prior year due to a $47 million unfavorable impact related to the fixed annuities reinsurance transaction, approximately $30 million from lower average invested assets due to fixed annuity net outflows and approximately $13 million from lower earned interest rates.

Other revenues increased $76 million, or 13%, to $661 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $585 million for the prior year primarily due to accretion on our fixed annuities reinsurance deposit receivable and higher fees from variable annuity guarantee sales in the prior year where the fees start on the first anniversary date and higher average fee rates.

Expenses

Total expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC and DAC amortization), the market impact on fixed index annuity benefits (net of hedges and the related DAC amortization), mean reversion related impacts and the DAC and DSIC offset to net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $18 million, or 1%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the prior year. 

 62

Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased $16 million, or 3%, to $445 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $461 million for the prior year due to lower average fixed deferred annuity account balances. 

Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC amortization), mean reversion related impacts and the DSIC offset to net realized investment gains or losses, were essentially flat at $664 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $665 million for the prior year primarily reflecting the impact of unlocking, partially offset by higher reserve funding driven by the impact of higher variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges. 

Amortization of DAC, which excludes mean reversion related impacts, the DAC offset to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits and fixed index annuity benefits and the DAC offset to net realized investment gains or losses, increased $9 million, or 5%, to $190 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $181 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of unlocking, partially offset by a favorable impact from normal year over year experience differences for variable annuities.

Protection

The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment on an adjusted operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Protection segment pretax adjusted operating earnings, which excludes net realized investment gains or losses (net of the related DAC amortization, unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual), the market impact on IUL benefits (net of hedges and the related DAC amortization, unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual) and mean reversion related impacts, increased $6 million, or 2%, to $261 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $255 million for the prior year.

Net Revenues

Net revenues, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses (net of unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual) and the unearned revenue amortization and reinsurance accrual offset to the market impact on IUL benefits, decreased $49 million, or 4%, to $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year.

Net investment income, which excludes net realized investment gains or losses, increased $19 million, or 7%, to $308 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $289 million for the prior year reflecting higher average invested assets.

Other revenues, which exclude the unearned revenue amortization and reinsurance accrual offset to net realized investment gains or losses and the market impact on IUL benefits, decreased $63 million, or 14%, to $400 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $463 million for the prior year due to the impact of unlocking, partially offset by a $7 million expense in the prior year related to a modification of costs within a reinsurance contract.

 63

Expenses

Total expenses, which exclude the market impact on IUL benefits (net of hedges and the related DAC amortization), mean reversion related impacts and the DAC offset to net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $55 million, or 7%, to $786 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $841 million for the prior year. 

Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $12 million, or 6%, to $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $200 million for the prior year primarily driven by higher fixed account values associated with UL and VUL insurance.

Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased $77 million, or 19%, to $327 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $404 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of unlocking. The unlocking impact for 2019 was an expense of $16 million and primarily reflected updates to our interest rate assumptions. The unlocking impact for the prior year was an expense of $101 million and primarily reflected unfavorable mortality experience on UL and VUL insurance products. 

Amortization of DAC increased $18 million, or 51%, to $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $35 million for the prior year primarily reflecting the impact of unlocking. The impact of unlocking for 2019 was an expense of $2 million compared to a benefit of $18 million for the prior year.

Corporate & Other

The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment on an adjusted operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Corporate & Other segment pretax adjusted operating loss excludes net realized investment gains or losses, the market impact of hedges to offset interest rate changes on unrealized gains or losses for certain investments, gain or loss on disposal of a business that is not considered discontinued operations, integration and restructuring charges, and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax adjusted operating loss increased $16 million, or 5%, to $320 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $304 million for the prior year. 

Auto and Home pretax adjusted operating earnings were $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to a pretax adjusted operating loss of $10 million for the prior year. We sold AAH on October 1, 2019.

Our LTC insurance pretax adjusted operating earnings were nil for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to a pretax adjusted operating loss of $61 million for the prior year. Our annual review of LTC active life future policy benefit reserve adequacy resulted in unlocking and loss recognition of $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $52 million in the prior year.

As of December 31, 2019, our nursing home indemnity LTC block had approximately $83 million in gross in force annual premium and future policyholder benefits and claim reserves of approximately $1.3 billion, net of reinsurance, which was 55% of GAAP reserves. This block has been shrinking over the last few years given the average attained age is 82 and the average attained age of 

 64

policyholders on claim is 88. Fifty-five percent of daily benefits in force in this block come from policies that have a lifetime benefit period.

As of December 31, 2019, our comprehensive reimbursement LTC block had approximately $115 million in gross in force annual premium and future policyholder benefits and claim reserves of approximately $1.1 billion, net of reinsurance. This block has higher premiums per policy than the nursing home indemnity LTC policies. The average attained age is 76 and the average attained age of policyholders on claim is 84. Thirty-seven percent of daily benefits in force in this block come from policies that have a lifetime benefit period. 

We utilize three primary levers to manage our LTC business. First, we have taken an active approach of steadily increasing rates since 2005, with cumulative rate increases of 162% on our nursing home indemnity LTC block and 93% on our comprehensive reimbursement LTC block as of December 31, 2019. Second, we have a reserving process that reflects the policy features and risk characteristics of our blocks. As of December 31, 2018, we had 30,000 policies that were closed with claim activity, as well as 8,000 open claims. We apply this experience to our in force policies, which were 103,000 as of December 31, 2019, at a very granular level by issue year, attained age and benefit features. Our statutory reserves are $415 million higher than our GAAP reserves and include margins for key assumptions like morbidity and mortality, as well as $233 million in asset adequacy reserves as of December 31, 2019. Lastly, we have prudently managed our investment portfolio primarily through a liquid, investment grade portfolio that is currently in a net unrealized gain position. 

We undertake an extensive review of active life future policy benefit reserve adequacy annually during the third quarter of each year, or more frequently if appropriate, using current best estimate assumptions as of the date of the review. Our annual review process includes an analysis of our key reserve assumptions, including, at this time, those for morbidity, terminations (mortality and lapses), premium rate increases and investment yields. Because we have a rigorous annual review of all key reserve assumptions, we believe we are materially less exposed to large one-time reserve adjustments.

Net Revenues

Net revenues, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, the market impact of hedges to offset interest rate changes on unrealized gains or losses for certain investments, gain on disposal of business that is not considered discontinued operations, integration and restructuring charges and revenues attributable to CIEs, decreased $242 million, or 18%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year. Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 included $881 million from Auto and Home compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year reflecting the sale of AAH.

Net investment income, which excludes net realized investment gains or losses and the market impact of hedges to offset interest rate changes on unrealized gains or losses for certain investments, decreased $32 million, or 18%, to $145 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $177 million for the prior year primarily due to impairments of our investment in affordable housing partnerships. Impairments of our investment in affordable housing partnerships were $35 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $7 million for the prior year.

Premiums decreased $217 million, or 19%, to $931 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to the sale of AAH. 

Other revenues increased $11 million to $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $6 million for the prior year primarily due to a $7 million gain on the sale of real estate in the third quarter of 2019.

Expenses

Total expenses, which exclude integration and restructuring charges and expenses attributable to CIEs, decreased $226 million, or 14%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.6 billion for the prior year. Total expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 included $868 million from Auto and Home compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year reflecting the sale of AAH.

Distribution expenses decreased $11 million to a benefit of $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to an expense of $10 million for the prior year reflecting the sale of AAH.

Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased $264 million, or 22%, to $962 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year reflecting a decrease in LTC unlocking and loss recognition and the sale of AAH.

Amortization of DAC decreased $10 million, or 19%, to $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $52 million for the prior year reflecting the sale of AAH.

Interest and debt expense increased $18 million, or 49%, to $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $37 million for the prior year primarily due to interest expense on asset backed securities issued by one of our subsidiaries in the fourth quarter of 2018. This interest expense is eliminated on a consolidated basis.

General and administrative expense increased $41 million, or 13%, to $356 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $315 million for the prior year primarily due to a $33 million unfavorable change in the mark-to-market impact on share-based compensation expenses, investments in growth initiatives and a $13 million increase in severance, partially offset by a $25 million decrease in auto and home expenses primarily reflecting the sale of AAH. 

 65

Consolidated Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

The following table presents our consolidated results of operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Overall

Pretax income increased $270 million, or 12%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $2.2 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting average equity market appreciation, wrap account net inflows, a positive impact from higher short-term interest rates and a decrease in the unfavorable market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC and DAC amortization), partially offset by the impact of unlocking, the cumulative impact of asset management net outflows and the impact on DAC, DSIC and reserves for insurance features in non-traditional long-duration contracts from actual versus expected market performance. The market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC and DAC amortization) was an expense of $31 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to an expense of $232 million for the prior year. 

The impact on DAC, DSIC and reserves for insurance features in non-traditional long-duration contracts from actual versus expected market performance was an expense of $33 million ($21 million for DAC, $5 million for DSIC and $7 million for insurance features in non-traditional long duration contracts) for the year ended December 31, 2018 reflecting unfavorable market returns compared to a benefit of $83 million ($36 million for DAC, $8 million for DSIC and $39 million for insurance features in non-traditional long duration contracts) for the prior year reflecting favorable market returns.

 66

The following table presents the total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses attributable to unlocking and LTC loss recognition for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes a $5 million net benefit related to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits for both the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, which is excluded from adjusted operating earnings. Refer to Results of Operations by Segment for the impact to pretax adjusted operating earnings attributable to unlocking and LTC loss recognition.

The following table presents the impact from the enactment of the legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) for the year ended December 31, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes the impairment of our investment in affordable housing partnerships due to the Tax Act’s change in statutory tax rate to 21%.

Net Revenues

Net revenues increased $703 million, or 6%, to $12.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $12.1 billion for the prior year. 

Management and financial advice fees increased $361 million, or 6%, to $6.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $6.4 billion for the prior year primarily due to an increase in AUM. Average AUM increased $35.4 billion, or 5%, compared to the prior year primarily due to average equity market appreciation and wrap account net inflows, partially offset by asset management net outflows. See our discussion on the changes in AUM in our segment results of operations section. 

Distribution fees increased $120 million, or 7%, to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1.8 billion for the prior year reflecting average equity market appreciation and higher earnings on brokerage cash due to an increase in short-term interest rates, partially offset by a $30 million decrease related to our transition to share classes without 12b-1 fees in advisory accounts, which we completed during the first quarter of 2017.

Net investment income increased $87 million, or 6%, to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1.5 billion for the prior year primarily due to a $51 million impairment of our investment in affordable housing partnerships in 2017 due to the enactment of the Tax Act, a $31 million increase in net investment income of CIEs, a $13 million favorable change in the market impact of hedges on investments and an increase in interest earned on brokerage margin loans and cash balances due to higher short-term interest rates, partially offset by a $36 million decrease in net realized investment gains.

 67

Other revenues increased $144 million, or 13%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to the impact of unlocking and an increase in variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges, partially offset by a $7 million expense related to a modification of costs within a reinsurance contract. 

Banking and deposit interest expense increased $41 million, or 85%, to $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $48 million for the prior year due to higher average crediting rates on certificates, as well as higher average certificate balances.

Expenses

Total expenses increased $433 million, or 4%, to $10.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $9.9 billion for the prior year.

Distribution expenses increased $240 million, or 7%, to $3.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $3.4 billion for the prior year reflecting higher advisor compensation due to average equity market appreciation and wrap account net inflows, partially offset by asset management net outflows and a $16 million decrease from changes related to our transition to share classes without 12b-1 fees in advisory accounts. 

Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $69 million, or 3%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $2.2 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting the following items:

•The impact of unlocking was an expense of $113 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to a benefit of $139 million for the prior year. The unlocking impact for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily reflected unfavorable mortality experience on UL and VUL insurance products and lower surrender rate assumptions on variable annuities, partially offset by a favorable impact from updates to assumptions on utilization of guaranteed withdrawal benefits. The unlocking impact for the prior year primarily reflected a benefit from updates to market-related inputs to our living benefit valuation. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•A $25 million increase in expense related to higher reserve funding driven by the impact of higher variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges.

•The impact on DSIC and reserves for insurance features in non-traditional long-duration contracts from actual versus expected market performance was an expense of $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to a benefit of $47 million for the prior year.

•A $356 million decrease in expense from the unhedged nonperformance credit spread risk adjustment on variable annuity guaranteed benefits. The favorable impact of the nonperformance credit spread was $250 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to an unfavorable impact of $106 million for the prior year. As the estimate of the nonperformance credit spread over the LIBOR swap curve tightens or widens, the embedded derivative liability will increase or decrease. As the embedded derivative liability on which the nonperformance credit spread is applied increases (decreases), the impact of the nonperformance credit spread is favorable (unfavorable) to expense. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Equity market impact on the variable annuity guaranteed living benefits liability net of the impact on the corresponding hedge assets resulted in a higher expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year.

•Interest rate impact on the variable annuity guaranteed living benefits liability net of the impact on the corresponding hedge assets resulted in a lower expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year.

•Volatility impact on the variable annuity guaranteed living benefits liability net of the impact on the corresponding hedge assets resulted in a lower expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year.

•Other unhedged items, including the difference between the assumed and actual underlying separate account investment performance, fixed income credit exposures, transaction costs and various contractholder behavioral items, were a net unfavorable impact compared to the prior year. 

Amortization of DAC increased $55 million, or 21%, to $322 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $267 million for the prior year primarily reflecting the following items:

•The impact on DAC from actual versus expected market performance was an expense of $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to a benefit of $36 million for the prior year.

•The DAC offset to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits was an expense of $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to a benefit of $26 million for the prior year.

 68

•The impact of unlocking was a benefit of $33 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and primarily reflected updated mortality assumptions on UL and VUL insurance products and lower surrender rate assumptions on variable annuities, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from updates to assumptions on utilization of guaranteed withdrawal benefits. The impact of unlocking for the prior year was a benefit of $12 million and primarily reflected improved persistency and mortality on UL and VUL insurance products and a $10 million benefit from a correction related to a variable annuity model assumption, partially offset by updates to market-related inputs to the living benefit valuation. 

•The positive impact on DAC from lower than expected lapses on variable annuities was $10 million.

Interest and debt expense increased $38 million, or 18%, to $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $207 million for the prior year primarily due to an increase in interest expense of CIEs. 

Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate was 15.5% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 33.1% for the prior year. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year is primarily the result of the decrease in the federal statutory tax rate and a $286 million expense in 2017 due to provisions in the Tax Act, partially offset by lower levels of the dividends received deduction and a decrease in the benefit for net excess tax benefits related to employee share-based payments, which was $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $70 million for the prior year. 

Results of Operations by Segment

Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 

The following table presents summary financial information by segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 69

The following table presents the segment pretax adjusted operating impacts on our revenues and expenses attributable to unlocking and LTC loss recognition for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Advice & Wealth Management

The following table presents the changes in wrap account assets and average balances for the years ended December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Inflows associated with acquisition that closed during the period.

(2) Advisory wrap account assets represent those assets for which clients receive advisory services and are the primary driver of revenue earned on wrap accounts. Clients may hold non-advisory investments in their wrap accounts that do not incur an advisory fee.

(3) Average ending balances are calculated using an average of the prior period’s ending balance and all months in the current period.

Wrap account assets increased $3.3 billion, or 1%, during the year ended December 31, 2018 due to net inflows of $21.1 billion, partially offset by market depreciation and other of $17.8 billion. Average advisory wrap account assets increased $33.4 billion, or 15%, compared to the prior year reflecting net inflows and market appreciation.

In July 2017, we completed our acquisition of Investment Professionals, Inc. (“IPI”), an independent broker-dealer based in San Antonio, Texas specializing in the on-site delivery of investment programs for financial institutions, including banks and credit unions. The acquisition added 215 financial advisors and $8 billion in client assets (including $0.7 billion in assets under management and $7.3 billion in assets under administration).

 70

The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment on an operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax adjusted operating earnings, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, increased $226 million, or 19%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year reflecting wrap account net inflows, average equity market appreciation and higher earnings on brokerage cash, partially offset by higher general and administrative expense. Pretax adjusted operating margin was 22.4% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 20.7% for the prior year.

Net Revenues

Net revenues exclude net realized investment gains or losses. Net revenues increased $573 million, or 10%, to $6.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $5.6 billion for the prior year. Adjusted operating net revenue per advisor increased to $624,000 for the year ended December 31, 2018, up 9%, from $575,000 for the prior year. 

Management and financial fees increased $385 million, or 12%, to $3.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $3.2 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in wrap account assets. Average advisory wrap account assets increased $33.4 billion, or 15%, compared to the prior year reflecting net inflows and average equity market appreciation.

Distribution fees increased $146 million, or 7%, to $2.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $2.1 billion for the prior year reflecting higher earnings on brokerage cash due to an increase in short-term interest rates and the IPI acquisition, partially offset by a $30 million decrease related to our transition to share classes without 12b-1 fees in advisory accounts in the first quarter of 2017.

Net investment income increased $77 million, or 32%, to $316 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $239 million for the prior year primarily due to higher investment yields on assets related to certificates and higher invested balances due to certificate net inflows, as well as an increase in interest earned on brokerage margin loans and cash balances due to higher short-term interest rates.

Banking and deposit interest expense increased $41 million, or 85%, to $89 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $48 million for the prior year due to higher client crediting rates on certificates, as well as higher average certificate balances. 

Expenses

Total expenses increased $347 million, or 8%, to $4.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $4.5 billion for the prior year.

Distribution expenses increased $276 million, or 9%, to $3.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $3.2 billion for the prior year reflecting higher advisor compensation due to average equity market appreciation and wrap account net inflows, as well as the IPI acquisition, partially offset by a $16 million decrease from changes related to our transition to share classes without 12b-1 fees in advisory accounts in the first quarter of 2017.

General and administrative expense increased $70 million, or 6%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year primarily due to an increase in staffing costs, allocated overhead expenses, technology-related expenses, marketing expenses, vendor-related expenses linked to revenue growth and the IPI acquisition.

 71

Asset Management

The following table presents managed assets by type:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Average ending balances are calculated using an average of the prior period’s ending balance and all months in the current period.

The following tables present the changes in global managed assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Amounts represent local currency to US dollar translation for reporting purposes.

(2) Inflows associated with acquisitions that closed during the period.

(3) Includes $0.6 billion and $0.5 billion for the total change in Affiliated General Account Assets during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

(4) Former parent company related assets and net new flows are included in the rollforwards above.

 72

Total segment AUM decreased $63.9 billion, or 13%, during the year ended December 31, 2018 driven by net outflows of $21.2 billion, retail fund distributions of $13.8 billion, market depreciation and a negative impact of foreign currency translation. Total segment AUM net outflows included $8.0 billion of outflows of former parent-related assets. 

Global retail net outflows of $5.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 included $17.2 billion of net new outflows, partially offset by $11.6 billion of reinvested dividends. In U.S. retail, net new outflows of $14.1 billion reflected elevated outflows in the fourth quarter from market dislocation, industry pressures on active strategies and outflows from former parent-related assets, partially offset by $11.5 billion of reinvested dividends. In EMEA retail, net outflows of $3.0 billion reflected elevated outflows in the fourth quarter consistent with the industry reflecting weakened market sentiment across all regions related to market volatility and concerns over Brexit, the economy and interest rates.

Global institutional net outflows of $15.6 billion included $5.2 billion of outflows from former parent-related assets and $2.5 billion of CLO redemptions. Third party institutional outflows were elevated and reflect lower sales and higher redemptions of equity and fixed income mandates.

In November 2017, we completed our acquisition of Lionstone Partners, LLC (“Lionstone Investments”), a leading national real estate investment firm, specializing in investment strategies based upon proprietary analytics. This acquisition added $5.4 billion in assets under management.

The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment on an operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Asset Management segment pretax adjusted operating earnings, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $12 million, or 2%, to $728 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $740 million for the prior year primarily due to the cumulative impact of net outflows, a $31 million decrease related to CLO unwinds and $12 million of costs associated with the implementation of our Brexit strategy, partially offset by average equity market appreciation, lower performance-based compensation and continued expense management. 

Net Revenues

Net revenues, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $61 million, or 2%, to $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $3.1 billion for the prior year.

Management and financial advice fees decreased $29 million, or 1%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $2.6 billion for the prior year driven by cumulative net outflows, a $32 million decrease in incentive fees from CLO unwinds and a $17 million decrease in performance fees, partially offset by average equity market appreciation, a $13 million positive foreign currency translation impact and a $24 million increase from the Lionstone Investments acquisition. Our average weighted equity index, which is a proxy for equity movements on AUM, increased 10% for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year. 

Distribution fees decreased $25 million, or 5%, to $433 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $458 million for the prior year due to cumulative net outflows and an $11 million decrease related to the transition of advisory accounts to share classes without 12b-1 fees in the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by average equity market appreciation. 

 73

Expenses

Total expenses decreased $49 million, or 2%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year. 

Distribution expenses decreased $37 million, or 4%, to $961 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $998 million for the prior year due to asset management net outflows and an $11 million decrease related to the transition of advisory accounts to share classes without 12b-1 fees in the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by average equity market appreciation. 

General and administrative expense decreased $12 million, or 1%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower performance-based compensation, lower compensation related to CLO unwinds, a $14 million decrease in compensation related to lower performance fees and disciplined expense management, partially offset by $12 million of Brexit-related costs, an $8 million negative foreign currency translation impact and a $25 million increase related to the Lionstone Investments acquisition. 

Annuities

The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment on an operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Annuities segment pretax adjusted operating income, which excludes net realized investment gains or losses (net of the related DSIC and DAC amortization), the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC and DAC amortization), the market impact on fixed index annuity benefits (net of hedges and the related DAC amortization) and mean reversion related impacts, decreased $133 million, or 21%, to $496 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $629 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of unlocking, lower investment yields and variable annuity net outflows, partially offset by average equity market appreciation. The impact of unlocking was an expense of $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to a benefit of $120 million for the prior year. 

RiverSource variable annuity account balances declined 10% to $72.0 billion as of December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year due to equity market depreciation and net outflows of $3.3 billion. 

RiverSource fixed deferred annuity account balances declined 7% to $8.7 billion as of December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year as older policies continue to lapse and new sales are limited due to low interest rates. 

Net Revenues

Net revenues, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $23 million, or 1%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year.

Net investment income, which excludes net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $53 million, or 8%, to $644 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $697 million for the prior year primarily due to a decrease of approximately $32 million from lower invested assets due to fixed annuity net outflows and approximately $23 million from lower earned interest rates.

 74

Other revenues increased $35 million, or 6%, to $585 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $550 million for the prior year due to an increase in variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges driven by higher average fee rates on variable annuity guarantee sales and sales in the prior year where the fees start on the first anniversary date.

Expenses

Total expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC and DAC amortization), the market impact on fixed index annuity benefits (net of hedges and the related DAC amortization), mean reversion related impacts and the DAC and DSIC offset to net realized investment gains or losses, increased $110 million, or 6%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1.9 billion for the prior year. 

Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased $12 million, or 3%, to $461 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $473 million for the prior year due to lower average fixed deferred annuity account balances. 

Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits (net of hedges and the related DSIC amortization), mean reversion related impacts and the DSIC offset to net realized investment gains or losses, increased $151 million, or 29%, to $665 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $514 million for the prior year primarily reflecting the following items: 

•The impact of unlocking was an $18 million expense for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to a $119 million benefit for the prior year. See our Consolidated Results of Operations section for discussion of the drivers of unlocking.

•A $25 million increase in expense related to higher reserve funding driven by the impact of higher variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges.

Amortization of DAC, which excludes the DAC offset to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed benefits and fixed index annuity benefits, mean reversion related impacts and the DAC offset to net realized investment gains or losses, decreased $34 million, or 16%, to $181 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $215 million for the prior year primarily reflecting the following items:

•The impact of unlocking was a benefit of $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to a benefit of $1 million for the prior year. See our Consolidated Results of Operations section for discussion of the drivers of unlocking.

•The positive impact on DAC from lower than expected lapses on variable annuities was $10 million.

Protection

The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment on an operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Protection segment pretax adjusted operating earnings, which excludes net realized investment gains or losses (net of the related DAC amortization, unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual) and the market impact on IUL benefits (net of hedges and the related DAC amortization, unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual) and mean reversion related impacts, was essentially flat at $255 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $256 million for the prior year.

 75

Net Revenues

Net revenues, which exclude net realized investment gains or losses (net of unearned revenue amortization and the reinsurance accrual) and the unearned revenue amortization and reinsurance accrual offset to the market impact on IUL benefits, increased $113 million, or 11%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $983 million for the prior year.

Other revenues, which exclude the unearned revenue amortization and reinsurance accrual offset to net realized investment gains or losses and the market impact on IUL benefits, increased $110 million, or 31%, to $463 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $353 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of unlocking, partially offset by a $7 million expense related to a modification of costs within a reinsurance contract and higher cost of reinsurance for life insurance products. Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 included a $78 million favorable impact from unlocking compared to a $47 million unfavorable impact in the prior year period. See our Consolidated Results of Operations section for discussion of the drivers of unlocking.

Expenses

Total expenses, which exclude the market impact on IUL benefits (net of hedges and the related DAC amortization), mean reversion related impacts and the DAC offset to net realized investment gains or losses, increased $114 million, or 16%, to $841 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $727 million for the prior year. 

Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $14 million, or 8%, to $200 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $186 million for the prior year primarily driven by higher fixed account values associated with UL and VUL insurance.

Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $111 million, or 38%, to $404 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $293 million for the prior year primarily reflecting the following impacts:

•The impact of unlocking was an expense of $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to a benefit of $14 million for the prior year. See our Consolidated Results of Operations section for discussion of the drivers of unlocking.

•A $14 million decrease in DI claims, partially offset by a $4 million increase in life claims.

Corporate & Other

The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment on an operating basis:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our Corporate & Other segment pretax adjusted operating loss excludes net realized investment gains or losses, the market impact of hedges to offset interest rate changes on unrealized gains or losses for certain investments, gain or loss on disposal of a business that is not considered discontinued operations, integration and restructuring charges, and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax adjusted operating loss decreased $164 million, or 35%, to $304 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $468 million for the prior year.

 76

Net investment income increased $59 million, or 50%, to $177 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $118 million for the prior year primarily due to a $51 million impairment of our investment in affordable housing partnerships in 2017 due to the enactment of the Tax Act. 

Premiums increased $46 million, or 4%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the prior year due to higher average premium in both auto and home insurance products and higher auto policies in force. 

General and administrative expense decreased $60 million, or 16%, to $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $375 million for the prior year primarily due to a $21 million decline in DOL planning and implementation expenses, lower performance-based compensation and a $9 million expense in the prior year related to the renegotiation of a vendor arrangement. 

Fair Value Measurements

We report certain assets and liabilities at fair value; specifically, separate account assets, derivatives, embedded derivatives and most investments and cash equivalents. Fair value assumes the exchange of assets or liabilities occurs in orderly transactions and is not the result of a forced liquidation or distressed sale. We include actual market prices, or observable inputs, in our fair value measurements to the extent available. Broker quotes are obtained when quotes from pricing services are not available. We validate prices obtained from third parties through a variety of means such as: price variance analysis, subsequent sales testing, stale price review, price comparison across pricing vendors and due diligence reviews of vendors. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our fair value measurements.

Fair Value of Liabilities and Nonperformance Risk

Companies are required to measure the fair value of liabilities at the price that would be received to transfer the liability to a market participant (an exit price). Since there is not a market for our obligations of our variable annuity riders, indexed annuities and IUL insurance, we consider the assumptions participants in a hypothetical market would make to reflect an exit price. As a result, we adjust the valuation of variable annuity riders, indexed annuities and IUL insurance by updating certain contractholder assumptions, adding explicit margins to provide for risk, and adjusting the rates used to discount expected cash flows to reflect a market estimate of our nonperformance risk. The nonperformance risk adjustment is based on observable market data adjusted to estimate the risk of our life insurance company subsidiaries not fulfilling these liabilities. Consistent with general market conditions, this estimate resulted in a spread over the LIBOR swap curve as of December 31, 2019. As our estimate of this spread widens or tightens, the liability will decrease or increase. If this nonperformance credit spread moves to a zero spread over the LIBOR swap curve, the reduction to future net income would be approximately $341 million, net of DAC, DSIC, unearned revenue amortization, the reinsurance accrual and income taxes (calculated at the statutory tax rate of 21%), based on December 31, 2019 credit spreads.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Overview

We maintained substantial liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2019. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had $3.7 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, in cash and cash equivalents excluding CIEs. We have additional liquidity available through an unsecured revolving credit facility for up to $750 million that expires in October 2022. Under the terms of the credit agreement, we can increase this facility to $1.0 billion upon satisfaction of certain approval requirements. Available borrowings under this facility are reduced by any outstanding letters of credit. At December 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility and had $1 million of outstanding letters of credit. Our credit facility contains various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. We were in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 2019.

On October 1, 2019, we completed the sale of AAH and received gross proceeds of $1.1 billion in cash at closing. After a payment to an affinity partner, the net proceeds were $1.0 billion. 

On March 22, 2019, we issued $500 million of 3.00% senior notes due 2022 and incurred debt issuance costs of $3 million. A portion of the net proceeds was used to repay $300 million principal amount of our 7.3% senior notes which matured on June 28, 2019. The remainder of the net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes. 

We enter into short-term borrowings, which may include repurchase agreements and Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, to reduce reinvestment risk. Short-term borrowings allow us to receive cash to reinvest in longer-duration assets, while maintaining the flexibility to pay back the short-term debt with cash flows generated by the fixed income portfolio. The balance of repurchase agreements as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 was nil and $50 million, respectively, which is collateralized with agency residential mortgage backed securities from our investment portfolio. Our subsidiaries, RiverSource Life Insurance Company (“RiverSource Life”), and Ameriprise Bank, FSB are members of the FHLB of Des Moines, which provides access to collateralized borrowings. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had borrowings from the FHLB of $201 million and $151 million, respectively, which is collateralized with commercial mortgage backed securities. We believe cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances and our availability of revolver borrowings will be sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs.

Dividends from Subsidiaries

Ameriprise Financial is primarily a parent holding company for the operations carried out by our wholly owned subsidiaries. Because of our holding company structure, our ability to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends on our common stock, substantially depends upon the receipt of dividends or return of capital from our subsidiaries, particularly our life insurance 

 77

subsidiary, RiverSource Life, our face-amount certificate subsidiary, Ameriprise Certificate Company (“ACC”), AMPF Holding Corporation, which is the parent company of our retail introducing broker-dealer subsidiary, Ameriprise Financial Services, LLC (“AFS”) (previously Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. until January 2020) and our clearing broker-dealer subsidiary, American Enterprise Investment Services, Inc. (“AEIS”), our transfer agent subsidiary, Columbia Management Investment Services Corp. (“CMIS”), our investment advisory company, Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC (“CMIA”), and Ameriprise International Holdings GmbH, which is the parent company of Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sàrl. The payment of dividends by many of our subsidiaries is restricted and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements.

Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements for our wholly owned subsidiaries subject to regulatory capital requirements were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

N/A Not applicable.

# Amounts are less than $1 million.

(1) Actual capital is determined on a statutory basis.

(2) Regulatory capital requirement is the company action level and is based on the statutory risk-based capital filing.

(3) Regulatory capital requirement is based on the applicable regulatory requirement, calculated as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.

(4) Actual capital is determined on an adjusted GAAP basis.

(5) ACC is required to hold capital in compliance with the Minnesota Department of Commerce and SEC capital requirements.

(6) Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements are determined in accordance with U.K. regulatory legislation. The regulatory capital requirements at December 31, 2019 represent calculations at September 30, 2019 of the rule based requirements, as specified by FCA regulations.

(7) Regulatory capital requirement is based on minimum requirements for well capitalized banks in accordance with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”).

(8) The Company sold AAH on October 1, 2019.

In addition to the particular regulations restricting dividend payments and establishing subsidiary capitalization requirements, we take into account the overall health of the business, capital levels and risk management considerations in determining a strategy for payments to our parent holding company from our subsidiaries, and in deciding to use cash to make capital contributions to our subsidiaries.

During the year ended December 31, 2019, the parent holding company received cash dividends or a return of capital from its subsidiaries of $2.7 billion and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $368 million. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the parent holding company received cash dividends or a return of capital from its subsidiaries of $2.7 billion and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $73 million. 

 78

The table below presents the historical subsidiary capacity for dividends and other distributions to the parent holding company in each of the years ended December 31: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For RiverSource Life payments in excess of statutory unassigned funds require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, RiverSource Life’s primary regulator, and are subject to potential disapproval. In addition, dividends and other distributions whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of (1) the previous year’s statutory net gain from operations or (2) 10% of the previous year-end statutory capital and surplus are referred to as “extraordinary dividends.” Extraordinary dividends also require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, and are subject to potential disapproval. For dividends exceeding these thresholds, RiverSource Life provided notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce and received responses indicating that it did not object to the payment of these dividends. Total dividend capacity for RiverSource Life represents dividends paid during year ended December 31 along with any unpaid ordinary dividend capacity, subject to unassigned funds limitation. 

(2) The dividend capacity for ACC is based on capital held in excess of regulatory requirements.

The following table presents cash dividends paid or return of capital to the parent holding company, net of cash capital contributions made by the parent holding company for the following subsidiaries for the years ended December 31: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Includes forgiveness of parent holding company debt of $81 million and $195 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(2) In 2018, the amount includes $351 million from a securitized portfolio of advisor loans which were previously held at Ameriprise Advisor Capital, LLC. The securitization transaction eliminated in consolidation.

In 2009, RiverSource Life established an agreement to protect its exposure to Genworth Life Insurance Company (“GLIC”) for its reinsured LTC. In 2016, substantial enhancements to this reinsurance protection agreement were finalized. The terms of these confidential provisions within the agreement have been shared, in the normal course of regular reviews, with our domiciliary regulator and rating agencies. GLIC is domiciled in Delaware, so in the event GLIC were subjected to rehabilitation or insolvency proceedings, such proceedings would be located in (and governed by) Delaware laws. Delaware courts have a long tradition of respecting commercial and reinsurance affairs, as well as contracts among sophisticated parties. Similar credit protections to what we have with GLIC have been tested and respected in Delaware and elsewhere in the United States, and as a result we believe our credit protections would be respected even in the unlikely event that GLIC becomes subject to rehabilitation or insolvency proceedings in Delaware. Accordingly, while no credit protections are perfect, we believe the correct way to think about the risks represented by our counterparty credit exposure to GLIC is not the full amount of the gross liability that GLIC reinsures, but a much smaller net exposure to GLIC (if any that might exist after taking into account our credit protections). Thus, management believes that our agreement and offsetting non LTC legacy arrangements with Genworth will enable RiverSource Life to recover on all net exposure in all material respects in the event of a rehabilitation or insolvency of GLIC.

 79

Dividends Paid to Shareholders and Share Repurchases

We paid regular quarterly dividends to our shareholders totaling $518 million and $516 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. On January 29, 2020, we announced a quarterly dividend of $0.97 per common share. The dividend will be paid on February 28, 2020 to our shareholders of record at the close of business on February 14, 2020.

In April 2017, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $2.5 billion of our common stock through June 30, 2019, which was exhausted in the second quarter of 2019. In February 2019, our Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase up to $2.5 billion of our common stock through March 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2019, we had $1.1 billion remaining under this share repurchase authorization. We intend to fund share repurchases through existing working capital, future earnings and other customary financing methods. The share repurchase program does not require the purchase of any minimum number of shares, and depending on market conditions and other factors, these purchases may be commenced or suspended at any time without prior notice. Acquisitions under the share repurchase program may be made in the open market, through privately negotiated transactions or block trades or other means. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased a total of 13.4 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $141.87 per share.

Cash Flows

Cash flows of CIEs and restricted and segregated cash are reflected in our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. Cash held by CIEs is not available for general use by Ameriprise Financial, nor is Ameriprise Financial cash available for general use by its CIEs. Cash segregated under federal and other regulations is held for the exclusive benefit of our brokerage customers and is not available for general use by Ameriprise Financial.

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $256 million to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $2.6 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting a $375 million decrease in cash from changes in restricted and segregated investments, a $264 million decrease in cash from changes in brokerage deposits and a $100 million payment to an affinity partner in connection with the sale of AAH, partially offset by changes in receivables.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased $1.1 billion to $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1.5 billion for the prior year primarily due to an $847 million increase in cash from changes in restricted and segregated investments and lower cash outflows related to derivatives.

Investing Activities

Our investing activities primarily relate to our Available-for-Sale investment portfolio. Further, this activity is significantly affected by the net flows of our investment certificate, fixed annuity and universal life products reflected in financing activities.

Net cash used in investing activities increased $2.6 billion to $3.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $587 million for the prior year primarily reflecting a $3.6 billion increase in cash used for purchases of Available-for-Sale securities, a $193 million decrease in proceeds from sales of Available-for-Sale securities, a $635 million decrease in net cash flows related to investments of consolidated investment entities, a $251 million decrease in cash related to the fixed annuities reinsurance arrangement and a $138 million decrease to cash related to written options with deferred premiums, partially offset by a $1.5 billion increase in proceeds from maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available-for-Sale securities and $934 million in proceeds from the sale of AAH, net of cash and cash equivalents sold of $204 million. See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the sale of AAH. 

Net cash used in investing activities increased $416 million to $587 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $171 million for the prior year primarily due to a $2.9 billion increase in cash used for purchases of Available-for-Sale securities, a $404 million decrease in cash proceeds from sales, maturities and repayments of mortgage loans reflecting the sale of our remaining consumer loans in 2017 and a $134 million increase in purchases of other investments, partially offset by a $1.8 billion increase in proceeds from maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available-for-Sale securities, a $244 million decrease in funding of mortgage loans, a $393 million increase in cash proceeds from sales, maturities and collections of other investments driven by proceeds from certificates of deposit, and a $594 million increase in net cash related to changes in investments of CIEs.

Financing Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1.3 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting a $3.8 billion increase in net cash inflows from banking deposits, proceeds of $497 million from issuance of debt and a $508 million decrease in net cash outflows related to CIE debt, partially offset by a $1.9 billion decrease in cash related to investment certificates due to certificate net outflows, repayment of $300 million of our senior notes in June 2019 and a $313 million increase in share repurchases.

Net cash used in financing activities decreased $522 million to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $1.8 billion for the prior year primarily due to a $1.5 billion increase in cash proceeds from investment certificates and a $138 million increase in cash received from purchased options with deferred premiums, partially offset by a $483 million increase in cash used for maturities, withdrawals and surrenders of investment certificates, a $474 million decrease in net cash related to changes in debt of CIEs and a $145 million increase in cash used to repurchase common shares.

 80

Contractual Commitments 

The contractual obligations identified in the table below include both our on and off-balance sheet transactions that represent material expected or contractually committed future obligations. The table excludes obligations of CIEs as they are not direct obligations of the Company and have recourse only to the assets of the CIEs. Estimated cash payments due by period as of December 31, 2019 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our long-term debt. 

(2) These scheduled payments are represented by reserves of approximately $30.5 billion at December 31, 2019 and are based on interest credited, mortality, morbidity, lapse, surrender and premium payment assumptions. The estimated payments are presented gross before reinsurance. The scheduled payments are undiscounted and exceed the corresponding liability at December 31, 2019. Actual payment obligations may differ if experience varies from these assumptions. As of December 31, 2019, the projected period for which cash payments will be made is 40 years. Separate account liabilities have been excluded as associated contractual obligations would be met by separate account assets. 

(3) The payments due by year are based on contractual term maturities. However, contractholders have the right to redeem the investment certificates earlier and at their discretion subject to surrender charges, if any. Redemptions are most likely to occur in periods of substantial increases in interest rates.

(4) The fair value of these commitments included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2019. See Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our deferred premium options.

(5) Call dates for the obligations presented are either date or event specific. For date specific obligations, we are required to fund a specific amount on a stated date provided there are no defaults under the agreement. For event specific obligations, we are required to fund a specific amount of its capital commitment when properties in a fund become fully stabilized. For event specific obligations, the estimated call date of these commitments is used in the table above.

(6) Purchase obligations include the minimum contractual amounts by period under contracts that were in effect at December 31, 2019. Many of the purchase agreements giving rise to these purchase obligations include termination clauses that may require payment of termination fees if the agreements are terminated by us without cause prior to their stated expiration; however, the table reflects the amounts to be paid assuming the contracts are not terminated.

(7) Interest on senior notes was estimated based on rates in effect as of December 31, 2019.

In addition to the contractual commitments outlined in the table above, we periodically fund the employees’ defined benefit plans. In 2020, we expect to contribute $16 million to our pension plans and $1 million to our defined benefit postretirement plans. See Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Total funding commitments related to loans and private funds, which are not included in the table above due to uncertainty with respect to timing of future cash flows, were $61 million and $12 million, respectively, at December 31, 2019. For additional information relating to these contractual commitments, see Note 26 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We provide asset management services to investment entities which are considered to be VIEs, such as CLOs, hedge funds, property funds and other private funds, which are sponsored by us. We consolidate certain CLOs. We have determined that consolidation is not required for hedge funds, property funds and other private funds, which are sponsored by us. Our maximum exposure to loss with respect to our investment in these non-consolidated entities is limited to our carrying value and future funding commitments that are legally binding. Other than future funding commitments that are legally binding, we have no obligation to provide further financial or other support to these investment entities nor have we provided any support to these investment entities. See Note 5 and Note 26 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our arrangements with these investment entities.

Forward-Looking Statements 

This report contains forward-looking statements that reflect management’s plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements. Examples of such forward-looking statements include: 

•statements of the Company’s plans, intentions, positioning, expectations, objectives or goals, including those relating to asset flows, mass affluent and affluent client acquisition strategy, client retention and growth of our client base, financial advisor 

 81

productivity, retention, recruiting and enrollments, the introduction, cessation, terms or pricing of new or existing products and services, acquisition integration, benefits and claims expenses, general and administrative costs, consolidated tax rate, return of capital to shareholders, debt repayment and excess capital position and financial flexibility to capture additional growth opportunities;

•other statements about future economic performance, the performance of equity markets and interest rate variations and the economic performance of the United States and of global markets; and

•statements of assumptions underlying such statements.

The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely,” “forecast,” “on pace,” “project” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements.

Such factors include, but are not limited to:

•conditions in the interest rate, credit default, equity market and foreign exchange environments, including changes in valuations, liquidity and volatility;

•changes in and the adoption of relevant accounting standards and securities rating agency standards and processes, as well as changes in the litigation and regulatory environment, including ongoing legal proceedings and regulatory actions, the frequency and extent of legal claims threatened or initiated by clients, other persons and regulators, and developments in regulation and legislation, including the rules and regulations implemented or that may be implemented or modified in connection with banking supervision and bank holding company and related laws and regulations or in light of state-based and other fiduciary rules, the SEC best interest standards, or similar rulemaking or standards such as the Certified Financial Planner Board standards pertaining to the fiduciary status and other attributes of investment advice providers to 401(k) plans, plan sponsors, plan participants and the holders of individual retirement or health savings accounts and related issues;

•investment management performance and distribution partner and consumer acceptance of the Company’s products;

•effects of competition in the financial services industry, including pricing pressure, the introduction of new products and services and changes in product distribution mix and distribution channels;

•changes to the Company’s reputation that may arise from employee or advisor misconduct or error, legal or regulatory actions, cybersecurity incidents, perceptions of the financial services industry generally, improper management of conflicts of interest or otherwise;

•the Company’s capital structure, including indebtedness, limitations on subsidiaries to pay dividends, and the extent, manner, terms and timing of any share or debt repurchases management may effect as well as the opinions of rating agencies and other analysts and the reactions of market participants or the Company’s regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any change or prospect of change in any such opinion;

•changes to the availability and cost of liquidity and the Company’s credit capacity that may arise due to shifts in market conditions, the Company’s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit;

•the elimination of LIBOR and the unknown transition to alternative rates over the next two years;

•risks of default, capacity constraint or repricing by issuers or guarantors of investments the Company owns or by counterparties to hedge, derivative, insurance or reinsurance arrangements or by manufacturers of products the Company distributes, experience deviations from the Company’s assumptions regarding such risks, the evaluations or the prospect of changes in evaluations of any such third parties published by rating agencies or other analysts, and the reactions of other market participants or the Company’s regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any such evaluation or prospect of changes in evaluation;

•experience deviations from the Company’s assumptions regarding morbidity, mortality, persistency and premium rate increases in certain annuity and insurance products (including, but not limited to, variable annuities and long term care policies), or from assumptions regarding market returns assumed in valuing or unlocking DAC and DSIC or market volatility underlying the Company’s valuation and hedging of guaranteed benefit annuity riders, or from assumptions regarding interest rates or asset yield assumed in the Company's loss recognition testing of its long term care business;

•changes in capital requirements that may be indicated, required or advised by regulators or rating agencies;

•the impacts of the Company’s efforts to improve distribution economics and to grow third-party distribution of its products;

•the ability to pursue and complete strategic transactions and initiatives, including acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, joint ventures and the development of new products and services;

•the ability to realize the financial, operating and business fundamental benefits of strategic transactions and initiatives the Company has completed, is pursuing or may pursue in the future, which may be impacted by the ability to obtain regulatory approvals, the ability to effectively manage related expenses and by market, business partner and consumer reactions to such strategic transactions and initiatives;

•the ability and timing to realize savings and other benefits from re-engineering and tax planning;

•interruptions or other failures in the Company’s communications, technology and other operating systems, including errors or failures caused by third-party service providers, interference or failures caused by third party attacks on the Company’s 

 82

systems (or other cybersecurity incidents), or the failure to safeguard the privacy or confidentiality of sensitive information and data on such systems; and

•general economic and political factors, including consumer confidence in the economy and the financial industry, the ability and inclination of consumers generally to invest as well as their ability and inclination to invest in financial instruments and products other than cash and cash equivalents, the costs of products and services the Company consumes in the conduct of its business, and applicable legislation and regulation and changes therein (such as the ongoing negotiations and disruption following the June 2016 UK referendum on membership in the European Union), including tax laws, tax treaties, fiscal and central government treasury policy, and policies regarding the financial services industry and publicly-held firms, and regulatory rulings and pronouncements.

Management cautions the reader that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that management is unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Management undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements. 

Ameriprise Financial announces financial and other information to investors through the Company’s investor relations website at ir.ameriprise.com, as well as SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. Investors and others interested in the company are encouraged to visit the investor relations website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. The website also allows users to sign up for automatic notifications in the event new materials are posted. The information found on the website is not incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document the Company furnishes or files with the SEC.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk