ITEM 7 – MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") is an omnichannel retailer that makes it easy for its customers to feel at home. The Company sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings which operates under the names Bed Bath & Beyond ("BBB"), Christmas Tree Shops, Christmas Tree Shops andThat! or andThat! (collectively, "CTS"), Harmon, Harmon Face Values, or Face Values (collectively, "Harmon"), buybuy BABY ("Baby") and World Market, Cost Plus World Market, or Cost Plus (collectively, "Cost Plus World Market"). Customers can purchase products either in-store, online, with a mobile device or through a customer contact center. The Company generally has the ability to have customer purchases picked up in-store or shipped direct to the customer from the Company's distribution facilities, stores or vendors. The Company also operates Decorist, an online interior design platform that provides personalized home design services. In addition, the Company operates Linen Holdings, a provider of a variety of textile products, amenities and other goods to institutional customers in the hospitality, cruise line, healthcare and other industries. Additionally, the Company is a partner in a joint venture which operates retail stores in Mexico under the name Bed Bath & Beyond. The Company also operates PersonalizationMall.com (“PMall”), an industry-leading online retailer of personalized products. 

The Company accounts for its operations as two operating segments: North American Retail and Institutional Sales. The Institutional Sales operating segment, which is comprised of Linen Holdings, does not meet the quantitative thresholds under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and therefore is not a reportable segment.

The Company is executing on a comprehensive plan to transform its business and position the Company for long-term success. On May 13, 2019, the Company announced that Mary Winston, a seasoned public company executive who had recently joined the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer ("Interim CEO") after the former CEO stepped down. During this interim period, the Board and management team were executing against our four key near-term priorities that included: 1) stabilizing sales and driving top-line growth; 2) resetting the cost structure; 3) reviewing and optimizing the Company’s asset base, including its portfolio of retail banners; and 4) refining the Company’s organization structure. On October 6, 2019, the Company’s Board appointed Mark Tritton as President and CEO of the Company, effective as of November 4, 2019, succeeding Interim CEO, Mary Winston. During the first six months of his tenure, Mr. Tritton has been assessing the operations, portfolio, capabilities and culture of the Company to develop a strategic plan designed to position the Company to deliver long-term, sustainable growth. Mr. Tritton’s strategic growth plans for the Company are grounded in five key pillars: Product, Price, Promise, Place and People, and are focused on a singular purpose to make it easy to feel at home. With these five pillars as its framework, the Company is embracing a commitment to build and manage a modern, durable omnichannnel business model, while maintaining focus on accelerating its extensive transformation efforts and continuing to drive against these near-term priorities to generate savings and reinvest for future growth.

Early actions include the extensive restructure of the Company’s leadership team, including the departure of six senior members, which was announced on December 17, 2019. Interim leaders were appointed in merchandising, digital, marketing, owned brands and legal, while the Company actively recruits for these roles. The new leadership team will be charged with streamlining decision-making, accelerating the pace of transformation, and re-establishing the Company’s authority in the home space through a more customer-focused, omnichannel retail operation, a redefined product assortment, and a more convenient and inspirational shopping experience. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2019, on March 4, 2020, Joe Hartsig joined the Company as Executive Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer of Bed Bath & Beyond and President of Harmon Stores Inc. In addition, on April 21, 2020, the Company announced the appointment of John Hartmann as Chief Operating Officer of the Company and President, buybuy BABY, effective as of May 18, 2020.

During the fiscal 2019 fourth quarter, the Company completed a sale-leaseback transaction with respect to approximately 2.1 million square feet of owned real estate, generating over $250 million in net proceeds, and also entered into a definitive agreement to sell PMall.com to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM ("Buyer") for $252 million, subject to certain working capital and other adjustments. The Buyer was required to close the transaction on March 30, 2020, but failed to do so. Accordingly, the Company filed an action to 

19
require the Buyer to close the transaction. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2019, the Company sold One Kings Lane to a third party for an undisclosed amount. While the Company cannot make any assurances, the Company, together with its outside advisors, continues to pursue other portfolio adjustments and evaluate the Company’s remaining owned real estate in an effort to create a stronger and more focused portfolio and enhance shareholder value. The net proceeds from these transactions and any other potential cash-generating transactions could be used to reinvest in the Company’s core business operations to drive growth, fund share repurchases, reduce the Company’s outstanding debt, or some combination of these. In other activity, the Company has been further evaluating its product assortment and taking aggressive steps to rationalize the assortment and better manage its inventory.

Given the current business environment, resulting in temporary store closures and further reductions in operating expenses, the Company has modified its capital investments, focusing on its core business and key projects that support its digital and omni fulfillment capabilities, including Buy Online Pickup In Store and curbside pickup, omni inventory management, as well as digital marketing and personalization. The Company is also re-engineering its supply chain and vendor relationships, as well as further strengthening its owned-brand strategy. These are among the early accelerated actions being taken to lay the foundation to create a new vision for the Company. 

The integration of retail store and customer facing digital channels allows the Company to provide its customers with a seamless shopping experience. In-store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store's inventory or may also be shipped to a customer from one of the Company's distribution facilities, from a vendor, or from another store. Purchases, including web and mobile, can be shipped to a customer from the Company's distribution facilities, directly from vendors, or from a store. The Company's customers can also choose to pick up orders reserved online in a store, as well as return online purchases to a store. Customers can also make purchases through one of the Company's customer contact centers and in-store through The Beyond Store, the Company's proprietary web-based platform. These capabilities allow the Company to better serve customers across various channels. Beginning in April 2020, in some locations, customers can buy online and pick up in store or pick up orders curbside. 

Operating in the highly competitive retail industry, the Company, along with other retail companies, is influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: general economic conditions including the housing market, unemployment levels and commodity prices; the overall macroeconomic environment and related changes in the retailing environment; consumer preferences, spending habits and adoption of new technologies; unusual weather patterns and natural disasters, including pandemics; competition from existing and potential competitors across all channels; potential supply chain disruption; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs and other terms to support the Company's plans for new stores; and the ability to assess and implement technologies in support of the Company's development of its omnichannel capabilities. The Company cannot predict whether, when or the manner in which these factors could affect the Company's operating results.

In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a global pandemic. The consequences of the outbreak and impact to the economy continues to evolve and the full extent of the impact is uncertain as of the date of this filing. The outbreak has already brought a material disruption to the operations of the Company. As a result of ‘social distancing’ measures put into effect in March 2020, the Company began to temporarily close certain store locations that did not have a health and personal care department and as of March 23, 2020, all retail banner stores across the U.S. and Canada have been temporarily closed except for stand-alone Baby and Harmon store locations, subject to state and local regulations. Customers can continue to order products online and with mobile devices.

In conjunction with the temporary store closures, the Company implemented additional cost reductions, including a furlough of the majority of store associates and a portion of corporate associates until at least May 16, 2020. The Company provided impacted store associates with applicable pay and benefits through April 3, 2020, and impacted corporate associates with pay and benefits through April 18, 2020. During the period in which furloughed associates are not paid, the Company will continue to pay 100% of the cost of healthcare premiums for all these associates who currently participate in the Company’s health plan, until further notice. Furloughed associates are also able to apply for unemployment benefits, if eligible. The Company also implemented a temporary reduction in salaries of the Company’s executive team by 30%, which will continue until at least May 16, 2020, and a temporary reduction in the quarterly cash compensation of the independent directors of the Board of Directors by 30%. 

Further, on March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) was enacted in the United States. The CARES Act is an emergency economic aid package to help mitigate the impact of the of COVID-19 pandemic. Among other things, the CARES Act provides certain changes to tax laws, which may impact the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Company is currently implementing applicable benefits of the CARES Act, such as deferring employer payroll taxes and utilizing the ability to carry back and deduct losses to offset prior income in previously filed tax returns. Due to the timing of the enactment of the CARES Act, the Company is still evaluating the impact that the CARES Act may have on the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and financial position.

20
The Company will continue to seek opportunities to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including, among others, renegotiating payment terms for goods, services and rent, managing to lower inventory levels, and reducing discretionary spend such as business travel, advertising and expense associated with the maintenance of stores that are temporarily closed. The COVID-19 pandemic could materially impact the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows in fiscal 2020. Given the uncertainty regarding the spread of the virus and the timing of the economic recovery, the related financial impact cannot be reasonably predicted or estimated at this time.

The results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 3, 2018, include Decorist since the date of acquisition, March 6, 2017. 

The following represents an overview of the Company’s financial performance for the periods indicated:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Comparable sales include sales consummated through all retail channels which have been operating for twelve full months following the opening period (typically four to six weeks). The Company is an omnichannel retailer with capabilities that allow a customer to use more than one channel when making a purchase, including in-store, online, with a mobile device or through a customer contact center, and have it fulfilled, in most cases, either through in-store customer pickup or by direct shipment to the customer from one of the Company’s distribution facilities, stores or vendors.

Sales consummated on a mobile device while physically in a store location are recorded as customer facing digital channel sales. Customer orders taken in-store by an associate through The Beyond Store, the Company’s proprietary, web-based platform are recorded as in-store sales. Customer orders reserved online and picked up in a store are recorded as in-store sales. Sales originally consummated from customer facing digital channels and subsequently returned in-store are recorded as a reduction of in-store sales.

Stores relocated or expanded are excluded from comparable sales if the change in square footage would cause meaningful disparity in sales over the prior period. In the case of a store to be closed, such store’s sales are not considered comparable once the store closing process has commenced. Stores impacted by unusual and unexpected events outside the Company’s control, including severe weather, fire or floods, are excluded from comparable sales for the period of time that such event would cause a meaningful disparity in sales over the prior period. PMall is included in the comparable sales calculation beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. One Kings Lane, Chef Central and Decorist are included in the comparable sales calculation beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Linen Holdings is excluded from the comparable sales calculations and will continue to be excluded on an ongoing basis as it represents non-retail activity.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For fiscal 2019, the effective tax rate reflects the impact of charges, portions of which are non-deductible for tax purposes, for goodwill and other impairments, an incremental charge for markdowns, severance costs, shareholder activity costs and 

21
a loss from a sale-leaseback transaction, including transaction costs. For fiscal 2018, the effective tax rate reflects the impact of charges, portions of which are non-deductible for tax purposes, for goodwill and other impairments, severance costs and a gain from the sale of a building.

For fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, the effective tax rate included net expense of approximately $4.3 million, net benefits of approximately $12.1 million and net expense of approximately $7.1 million, respectively, due to the recognition of discrete federal and state tax items. In addition, the fiscal 2017 effective tax rate included the impacts of the comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), enacted by the U.S. government on December 22, 2017.

The Company’s effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 included a net increase of approximately 1.5%, resulting from the impacts of the Tax Act. The Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, among other things, (i) reducing the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, (ii) imposing a one-time transition tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries deemed to be repatriated and (iii) implementing a modified territorial tax system. The net unfavorable tax impact included the following: (1) re-measurement of the Company’s net deferred tax assets that existed on December 22, 2017; (2) deferred taxes that were created after December 22, 2017 that were deducted at the federal statutory rate of 32.66%, but will reverse at the newly enacted 21% federal statutory rate; (3) the transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings; and (4) the decrease in the federal statutory tax rate in fiscal 2017. Additionally in fiscal 2017, the effective tax rate included the effect of the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Share-Based Payment Accounting, (“ASU 2016-09, Stock Compensation”), which increased the effective tax rate by approximately 1.4%. The effective rate also included approximately 1.9% of favorable tax benefits occurring during fiscal 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the fiscal year ended February 29, 2020 and March 2, 2019, the decrease in net earnings per diluted share is a result of the decrease in net earnings due to the items described above, partially offset by the impact of the Company's repurchase of its common stock. 

Capital expenditures for fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017 were $277.4 million, $325.4 million and $375.8 million, respectively. Almost half of the current year capital expenditures were for technology projects, primarily focused on logistics, digital capabilities and analytics. The remaining capital expenditures were primarily related to new store openings and investments in existing stores. 

The Company continues to review and prioritize its capital needs and remains committed to making the required investments in its infrastructure to help position the Company for continued growth and success. Key areas of investment include: continuing to improve the presentation and content as well as the functionality, general search and navigation across its customer facing digital channels; improving customer data integration and customer relations management capabilities; continuing to enhance service offerings to its customers; continuing to strengthen and deepen its information technology, analytics, marketing and e-commerce groups; and creating more flexible fulfillment options designed to improve the Company’s delivery capabilities and lower the Company’s shipping costs. These and other investments are expected to, among other things, provide a seamless and compelling customer experience across the Company’s omnichannel retail platform. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company is prioritizing approximately $250 million in essential capital expenditures for fiscal 2020 to drive strategic growth plans, including investments in digital and Buy Online Pick Up In Store (“BOPIS”), and has postponed approximately $150 million in planned capital expenditures, including some store remodels. 

During fiscal 2019, the Company opened a total of 9 new stores and closed 42 stores. The Company plans to continue to actively manage its real estate portfolio in order to permit store sizes, layouts, locations and offerings to evolve over time to optimize market profitability and will renovate or reposition stores within markets when appropriate. Over the past several years, the Company’s pace of its store openings has slowed, and the Company has increased the number of store closings. The Company has more than 250 store leases that are up for renewal in 2020, which provide opportunity to evaluate additional store closures and relocations.

During fiscal 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a quarterly dividend program. During fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, total cash dividends of $85.5 million, $86.3 million and $80.9 million were paid, respectively. The Company has suspended its quarterly cash dividend payments as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Any future quarterly cash dividend payments on its common 

22
stock in the future will be subject to the determination by the Board of Directors, based on an evaluation of the Company’s earnings, financial condition and requirements, business conditions and other factors.

During fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, the Company repurchased 6.8 million, 9.1 million, and 8.0 million shares, respectively, of its common stock at a total cost of approximately $99.7 million, $148.1 million and $252.4 million, respectively. Decisions regarding share repurchases are within the discretion of the Board of Directors, and will be influenced by a number of factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock, general business and economic conditions, the Company’s financial condition and operating results, the emergence of alternative investment or acquisition opportunities, changes in business strategy and other factors. The Company’s share repurchase program could change, and would be influenced by several factors, including business and market conditions, such as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s stock price. The Company reviews its alternatives with respect to its capital structure on an ongoing basis. The Company has postponed its plans for share repurchases as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

As indicated above, the Company began temporary store closures during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and the majority of its stores are now closed. To the extent store closures persist for an extended period of time, the Company would expect its results of operations to be impacted in future periods. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated (i) selected statement of operations data of the Company expressed as a percentage of net sales and (ii) the percentage change in dollar amounts from the prior year in selected statement of operations data:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales

Since fiscal 2017 was a fifty-three week year, fiscal 2018 started one calendar week later than fiscal 2017. The comparable sales calendar compares the same calendar weeks. 

Net sales in fiscal 2019 (fifty-two weeks) decreased $870.2 million to $11.159 billion, representing a decrease of 7.2% compared to $12.029 billion of net sales in fiscal 2018 (fifty-two weeks), which decreased $320.5 million or 2.6% over the $12.349 billion of net 

23
sales in fiscal 2017 (fifty-three weeks). For fiscal 2019 and 2018, the decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in comparable sales. In addition, for fiscal 2018, the decrease was also attributable to one less week in sales compared to fiscal 2017. 

The decrease in comparable sales for fiscal 2019 was approximately 6.8% as compared with a decrease of approximately 1.1% for fiscal 2018. Comparable sales percentages are calculated based on an equivalent number of weeks in each annual period. The decrease in comparable sales for fiscal 2019 and 2018 was due to a decrease in the number of transactions in stores, partially offset by an increase in the average transaction amount. 

The Company’s comparable sales metric considers sales consummated through all retail channels – in-store, online, with a mobile device or through a customer contact center. Customers today may take advantage of the Company’s omnichannel environment by using more than one channel when making a purchase. The Company believes in an integrated and seamless customer experience. A few examples are: a customer may be assisted by an in-store associate to create a wedding or baby registry, while the guests may ultimately purchase a gift from the Company’s websites; or a customer may research a particular item, and read other customer reviews on the Company’s websites before visiting a store to consummate the actual purchase; or a customer may reserve an item online for in-store pick up; or while in a store, a customer may make the purchase on a mobile device for in home delivery from either a distribution facility, a store or directly from a vendor. In addition, the Company accepts returns in-store without regard to the channel in which the purchase was consummated, therefore resulting in reducing store sales by sales originally consummated through customer facing digital channels. As the Company’s retail operations are integrated and it cannot reasonably track the channel in which the ultimate sale is initiated, the Company can however provide directional information on where the sale was consummated.

For fiscal 2019, comparable sales consummated through customer facing digital channels increased in the low-single-digit percentage range, while comparable sales consummated in-store declined in the high-single-digit percentage range from the corresponding period in the prior year. For fiscal 2018, comparable sales consummated through customer facing digital channels continued the trend of year over year strong growth, while comparable sales consummated in-store declined in the mid-single-digit percentage range from the corresponding period in the prior year. 

Comparable sales represented $10.789 billion, $11.604 billion, and $11.813 billion of net sales for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Comparable sales dollars are calculated based on an equivalent number of weeks in each annual period.

Domestics merchandise includes categories such as bed linens and related items, bath items and kitchen textiles. Home furnishings include categories such as kitchen and tabletop items, fine tabletop, basic housewares, general home furnishings (including furniture and wall décor), consumables and certain juvenile products. Sales of domestics merchandise accounted for approximately 35.2%, 35.4%, and 35.5% of net sales in fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, of which the Company estimates that bed linens accounted for approximately 11% of net sales in fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The remaining net sales in fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017 of 64.8%, 64.6%, and 64.5%, respectively, represented sales of home furnishings. No other individual product category accounted for 10% or more of net sales during fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017.

Gross Profit

Gross profit in fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017 was $3.542 billion or 31.7% of net sales, $4.104 billion or 34.1% of net sales, and $4.443 billion or 36.0% of net sales, respectively. The decrease in the gross profit margin as a percentage of net sales between fiscal 2019 and 2018 was primarily attributable to a decrease in merchandise margin, as a result of promotional activity and a charge for incremental markdowns of approximately $169.8 million related to the Company's transformation initiatives. This incremental charge for markdowns was the result of the Company's strategic decision to reduce inventory by up to $1.0 billion at retail from the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2019 through the end of fiscal 2020. This reduction is being driven by the Company’s inventory rationalization efforts, including reductions of aged and duplicative SKUs within the Company’s assortment. By taking this action, the Company is seeking to reset its inventory levels in both stores and distribution centers, as well as refresh its assortment, providing for newness and higher-margin products, all in an effort to drive customer traffic and support top-line performance. 

The decrease in the gross profit margin as a percentage of net sales between fiscal 2018 and 2017 was primarily attributed to, in order of magnitude: an increase in coupon expense, resulting from an increase in the average coupon amount partially offset by a decrease in the number of redemptions; a decrease in merchandise margin; and an increase in net direct to customer shipping expense. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

SG&A was $3.732 billion or 33.4% of net sales in fiscal 2019, $3.681 billion or 30.6% of net sales in fiscal 2018, and $3.682 billion or 29.8% of net sales in fiscal 2017. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales between 2019 and 2018 was primarily attributable to, in order of magnitude, increases in payroll and payroll-related expenses (primarily due to severance expense); technology-related expenses, including depreciation; advertising, due in part to the growth in digital advertising; and occupancy expense. Fixed costs, such as occupancy and technology-related expenses, including depreciation, as a percentage of net sales were 

24
impacted by the lower sales base in fiscal 2019. The percentage of net sales increase in SG&A between fiscal 2018 and 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in technology expenses, including related depreciation. 

Goodwill and other impairments

Goodwill and other impairments were $509.2 million in fiscal 2019 and $509.9 million in fiscal 2018. For fiscal 2019, goodwill impairments were $391.1 million, tradename impairments were $41.8 million, long-lived assets impairments were $75.1 million and other impairments were $1.2 million. For fiscal 2018, goodwill impairments were $325.2 million, tradename impairments were $161.7 million and long-lived assets impairments were $23.0 million. The non-cash pre-tax goodwill impairment charges were primarily the result of a sustained decline in the Company's market capitalization. There were no goodwill or other impairments in fiscal 2017.

Operating (Loss) Profit

Operating loss for fiscal 2019 was $700.1 million or 6.3% of net sales and $87.1 million or 0.7% of net sales for fiscal 2018, and operating profit was $761.3 million or 6.2% of net sales in fiscal 2017. The changes in operating (loss) profit as a percentage of net sales between fiscal 2019 and 2018 and between fiscal 2018 and 2017 were the result of the reductions in gross profit margin, the increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales and goodwill and other impairments as described above. 

Interest Expense, net

Interest expense, net was $64.8 million, $69.5 million, and $65.7 million in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, interest expense, net primarily related to interest on the senior unsecured notes issued in July 2014. Included in interest expense, net was an expense of $2.7 million for fiscal 2018, and a net benefit of $13.3 million for fiscal 2017, related to changes in the Company’s nonqualified deferred compensation plan (“NQDC”) investments. These changes were fully offset by corresponding changes in the NQDC liability recorded in SG&A and resulted in no net impact to the consolidated statement of earnings. On December 27, 2017, the Company terminated its nonqualified deferred compensation plan. During fiscal 2018, all participants' balances were liquidated and disbursed to those participants.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate was 19.7% for fiscal 2019, 12.4% for fiscal 2018, and 38.9% for fiscal 2017. 

For fiscal 2019, the effective tax rate reflects the impact of charges, portions of which are non-deductible for tax purposes, for goodwill and other impairments, an incremental charge for markdowns, severance costs, shareholder activity costs and a loss from a sale-leaseback transaction, including transaction costs. For fiscal 2018, the effective tax rate reflects the impact of charges, portions of which are non-deductible for tax purposes, for goodwill and other impairments, severance costs and a gain from the sale of a building.

For fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, the effective tax rate included net expense of approximately $4.3 million, net benefits of approximately $12.1 million and net expense of approximately $7.1 million, respectively, due to the recognition of discrete federal and state tax items. In addition, the fiscal 2017 effective tax rate included the impacts of the Tax Act, enacted by the U.S. government on December 22, 2017.

The Company’s effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 included a net increase of approximately 1.5%, resulting from the impacts of the Tax Act. The Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, among other things, (i) reducing the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, (ii) imposing a one-time transition tax on earnings of foreign subsidiaries deemed to be repatriated and (iii) implementing a modified territorial tax system. The net unfavorable tax impact included the following: (1) re-measurement of the Company’s net deferred tax assets that existed on December 22, 2017; (2) deferred taxes that were created after December 22, 2017 that were deducted at the federal statutory rate of 32.66%, but will reverse at the newly enacted 21% federal statutory rate; (3) the transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings; and (4) the decrease in the federal statutory tax rate in fiscal 2017. The fiscal 2017 effective tax rate also included the effect of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, Stock Compensation, which increased the effective tax rate by approximately 1.4%. The adoption of the standard did not affect the Company’s cash outflows for income taxes. Additionally, the fiscal 2017 effective rate included approximately 1.9% of net benefits primarily due to the recognition of favorable discrete federal and state tax items. 

As described above, on March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted. The Company is currently implementing applicable benefits of the CARES Act, such as utilizing the ability to carry back and deduct losses to offset prior income in previously filed tax returns. Due to the timing of the enactment of the CARES Act, the Company is still evaluating the impact that the CARES Act may have on the Company’s effective tax rate.

25
Potential volatility in the effective tax rate from year to year may occur as the Company is required each year to determine whether new information changes the assessment of both the probability that a tax position will effectively be sustained and the appropriateness of the amount of recognized benefit.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company has been able to finance its operations, including its growth and acquisitions, substantially through internally generated funds. The Company ended fiscal 2019 in a strong cash position. As of February 29, 2020, the Company had approximately $1.406 billion in cash and investment securities, an increase of approximately $392 million compared with $1.015 billion as of March 2, 2019. For fiscal 2020, the Company believes that it can continue to finance its operations through existing and internally generated funds. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, for fiscal 2020, the Company has taken measures to preserve its liquidity, including the postponement of its share repurchase program and the suspension of the payment of future dividends and prior plans for debt reduction; postponing approximately $150 million in capital expenditures and, among other things, renegotiating payment terms for goods, services and rent, managing to lower inventory levels, and reducing discretionary spend such as business travel, advertising and expense associated with the maintenance of stores that are temporarily closed. Similar to other retailers, the Company has also withheld portions of and/or delayed payments to certain of its business partners as the Company seeks to renegotiate payment terms, in order to further maintain liquidity given the temporary store closures. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully renegotiate payment terms with such business partners, and the ultimate outcome of these activities including the responses of business partners are not yet known. In addition, following the end of fiscal 2019, the Company elected to draw down the remaining $236 million of available funds under its $250 million revolving credit facility. The Company continues to explore other sources of liquidity as its capital structure provides further flexibility, including the potential to utilize significant balance sheet assets to generate incremental liquidity, if needed. As of February 29, 2020, the Company had approximately $2 billion of non-seasonal inventory on its balance sheet, which had not been pledged as collateral under existing debt arrangements. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2020 are modeled to be $250 million related to essential capital expenditures to drive strategic growth plans, including investments in digital and BOPIS. In addition, the Company reviews its alternatives with respect to its capital structure on an ongoing basis. As indicated above, the Company began store closures during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and the majority of its stores are now closed. To the extent store closures persist for an extended period of time, the Company's liquidity would be negatively impacted. 

Fiscal 2019 compared to Fiscal 2018 

Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2019 was $590.9 million, compared with $918.3 million in fiscal 2018. Year over year, the Company experienced a decrease in net earnings and an increase in cash provided by the net components of working capital (primarily merchandise inventories and accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by trading investment securities and other current assets).

Retail inventory, which includes inventory in the Company’s distribution facilities for direct to customer shipments, was approximately $2.1 billion at February 29, 2020, a decrease of approximately 20.0% compared to retail inventory at March 2, 2019. The Company continues to focus on its inventory optimization strategies.

Net cash provided by investing activities in fiscal 2019 was $91.4 million, compared with $509.7 million net cash used in fiscal 2018. In fiscal 2019, net cash provided by investing activities was primarily due to $267.3 million of proceeds from a sale-leaseback transaction and $101.5 million of redemptions of investment securities, net of purchases, partially offset by $277.4 million of capital expenditures. In fiscal 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $325.4 million of capital expenditures and $195.5 million of purchases of investment securities, net of redemptions.

Net cash used in financing activities for fiscal 2019 was $182.8 million, compared with $238.6 million in fiscal 2018. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to a decrease in common stock repurchases of $48.4 million. 

Fiscal 2018 compared to Fiscal 2017 

Net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2018 was $918.3 million, compared with $859.7 million in fiscal 2017. Year over year, the Company experienced an increase in cash provided by the net components of working capital (primarily prepaid expenses and other current assets, largely due to the prepayment in the prior fiscal year of certain operating expenses associated with tax planning strategies, partially offset by accounts payable) and a decrease in net earnings, as adjusted for non-cash expenses (primarily goodwill and other impairments and deferred income taxes).

Retail inventory, which includes inventory in the Company’s distribution facilities for direct to customer shipments, was approximately $2.6 billion at March 2, 2019, a decrease of approximately 4.7% compared to retail inventory at March 3, 2018. The Company continues to focus on its inventory optimization strategies.

26
Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2018 was $509.7 million, compared with $674.4 million in fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $325.4 million of capital expenditures and $195.5 million of purchases of investment securities, net of redemptions. In fiscal 2017, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $375.8 million of capital expenditures and $292.5 million of purchases of investment securities.

Net cash used in financing activities for fiscal 2018 was $238.6 million, compared with $323.4 million in fiscal 2017. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to a decrease in common stock repurchases of $104.4 million partially offset by a decrease in proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 

Other Fiscal 2019 Information

As of February 29, 2020, the Company maintained two uncommitted lines of credit of $100 million each, with expiration dates of August 30, 2020 and February 21, 2021, respectively. These uncommitted lines of credit are currently and in the future, expected to be used for letters of credit in the ordinary course of business. During fiscal 2019, the Company did not have any direct borrowings under the uncommitted lines of credit. Given the current economic environment, there can be no assurance of the Company’s ability to secure additional funding under its uncommitted lines of credit or on its ability to renew either or both of the uncommitted lines of credit before their respective expiration dates. 

On November 14, 2017, the Company replaced its existing $250 million five year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreement with various lenders with a new $250 million five year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreement ("Revolver") with various lenders maturing November 14, 2022. The new Revolver has essentially the same terms and requirements as the prior revolving credit facility agreement. For fiscal 2019 and 2018, the Company did not have any borrowings under the Revolver. The Company was in compliance with all covenants related to the Revolver as of February 29, 2020. As noted above, following the end of fiscal 2019, the Company elected to draw down the remaining $236 million of available funds under the Revolver. Given the current economic environment, the pendency of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the temporary closure of a substantial majority of the Company’s stores, the Company may be unable to maintain compliance with the maximum leverage ratio covenant contained in the Revolver in future periods, which would result in an event of default under the Revolver and could, at the direction of the requisite lenders, result in the acceleration of the obligation to repay the outstanding amounts thereunder if not waived by the applicable lenders. 

Between December 2004 and September 2015, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized, through several share repurchase programs, the repurchase of $11.950 billion of its common stock. Since 2004 through the end of fiscal 2019, the Company has repurchased approximately $10.7 billion of its common stock through share repurchase programs. The Company has approximately $1.2 billion remaining of authorized share repurchases as of February 29, 2020. The Company has authorization to make repurchases from time to time in the open market or through other parameters approved by the Board of Directors pursuant to existing rules and regulations. The Company’s share repurchase program could change, and would be influenced by several factors, including business and market conditions, such as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company's stock price. As of the date of this filing, the Company has postponed its plans for share repurchases to help preserve liquidity as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

During fiscal 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a quarterly dividend program. During fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, total cash dividends of $85.5 million, $86.3 million and $80.9 million were paid, respectively. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company has suspended its quarterly cash dividend payments. Any quarterly cash dividends to be paid in the future are subject to the determination by the Board of Directors, based on an evaluation of the Company’s earnings, financial condition and requirements, business conditions and other factors.

The Company has contractual obligations consisting mainly of principal and interest related to the senior unsecured notes, operating leases for stores, offices, distribution facilities and equipment, purchase obligations, long-term sale/leaseback and finance lease obligations and other long-term liabilities which the Company is obligated to pay as of February 29, 2020 as follows:

27
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) On July 17, 2014, the Company issued $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.749% senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2024, $300 million aggregate principal amount of 4.915% senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2034 and $900 million aggregate principal amount of 5.165% senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2044. In fiscal 2018, the Company purchased and retired $4.6 million of senior unsecured notes due August 1, 2024.

(2) The amounts presented represent the undiscounted future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases, inclusive of a financing obligation in the amount of $22.2 million related to operating leases entered into as a result of a sale-leaseback transaction completed during fiscal 2019. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company's leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance and other costs. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are not known. As of February 29, 2020, the Company has entered leases which have not yet commenced for 14 new or relocated locations planned for opening in fiscal 2020, for which aggregate minimum rental payments over the term of the leases are approximately $40.2 million. Such amounts are included in the table above, but have not been recorded in the consolidated balance sheet as of February 29, 2020. In addition, the amounts included in the table above exclude the operating lease payments for PMall and OKL, as the businesses were classified as held for sale as of February 29, 2020.

(3) Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for merchandise.

(4) Long-term sale/leaseback and finance lease obligations represent future minimum lease payments under the sale/leaseback and finance lease agreements.

(5) Other long-term liabilities are primarily comprised of income taxes payable, workers' compensation and general liability reserves and various other accruals and are recorded as other liabilities and income taxes payable in the consolidated balance sheet as of February 29, 2020. The amounts associated with these other long-term liabilities have been reflected only in the Total Column in the table above as the timing and / or amount of any cash payment is uncertain.

SEASONALITY

The Company’s business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, its sales volumes are higher in the calendar months of August, November, and December, and lower in February.

INFLATION

The Company does not believe that its operating results have been materially affected by inflation during the past year. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s operating results will not be affected by inflation in the future.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires the Company to establish accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that it believes to be relevant under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. In particular, judgment is used in areas such as inventory valuation, impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, accruals for self-insurance and income and certain other taxes. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Inventory Valuation: Merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory costs are primarily calculated using the weighted average retail inventory method.

28
Under the retail inventory method, the valuation of inventories at cost and the resulting gross margins are calculated by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to the retail values of inventories. The inputs associated with determining the cost-to-retail ratio includes: merchandise purchases, net of returns to vendors, discounts and volume and incentive rebates; inbound freight expenses; duty, insurance and commissions.

The retail inventory method contains certain management judgments that may affect inventory valuation. At any one time, inventories include items that have been written down to the Company’s best estimate of their realizable value. Judgment is required in estimating realizable value and factors considered are the age of merchandise, anticipated demand based on factors such as customer preferences and fashion trends, as well as anticipated markdowns to reduce the price of merchandise from its recorded retail price to a retail price at which it is expected to be sold in the future. These estimates are based on historical experience and current information about future events which are inherently uncertain. Actual realizable value could differ materially from this estimate based upon future customer demand or economic conditions, including the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The Company estimates its reserve for shrinkage throughout the year based on historical shrinkage and any current trends, if applicable. Actual shrinkage is recorded at year end based upon the results of the Company’s physical inventory counts for locations at which counts were conducted. For locations where physical inventory counts were not conducted in the fiscal year, an estimated shrink reserve is recorded based on historical shrinkage and any current trends, if applicable. Historically, the Company’s shrinkage has not been volatile.

The Company accrues for merchandise in transit once it takes legal ownership and title to the merchandise; as such, an estimate for merchandise in transit is included in the Company’s merchandise inventories.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may exceed their current fair values. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the assets. Judgment is required in estimating the fair value of the assets including assumptions related to sales growth rates and market rental rates. These estimates are based on historical experience and current information about future events which are inherently uncertain. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. 

In fiscal 2019, the Company recorded $75.1 million non-cash pre-tax impairment charges within goodwill and other impairments in the consolidated statement of operations for certain store-level assets, including leasehold improvements and operating lease assets. In fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a $23.0 million non-cash pre-tax impairment charge within goodwill and other impairments in the consolidated statement of operations for certain store-level assets. There were no impairments to long-lived assets in fiscal 2017. Of the stores impaired during fiscal 2019, partial impairments were recorded at 96 stores resulting in a remaining net book value of long-lived assets at risk of $116.6 million, inclusive of leasehold improvements and right-of-use assets. The Company will continue to monitor these stores closely. If actual results differ from the estimated undiscounted future cash flows or the estimated price market participants would be willing to pay to sublease store operating leases and acquire remaining store assets, which among other factors, may be impacted by the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company may be exposed to additional impairment losses that may be material. If events or market conditions affect the estimated fair value to the extent that a long-lived asset is impaired, the Company will adjust the carrying value of these long-lived assets in the period in which the impairment occurs.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets: The Company reviews goodwill and other intangibles that have indefinite lives for impairment annually as of the end of the fiscal year or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets might exceed their current fair values. Impairment testing is based upon the best information available, including estimates of fair value which incorporate assumptions marketplace participants would use in making their estimates of fair value. Significant assumptions and estimates are required, including, but not limited to, projecting future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, margins, growth rates, and other assumptions, to estimate the fair value of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. Although the Company believes the assumptions and estimates made are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and estimates could materially impact its reported financial results. In addition, sustained declines in the Company's stock price and related market capitalization could impact key assumptions in the overall estimated fair values of its reporting units and could result in non-cash impairment charges that could be material to the Company's consolidated balance sheet or result of operations. Prior to fiscal 2018, the Company has not recorded an impairment to its goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. 

In fiscal 2018, the Company recognized non-cash pre-tax goodwill impairment charges of $285.1 million and $40.1 million for the North American Retail and Institutional Sales reporting units, respectively. As of June 1, 2019, the Company completed a quantitative impairment analysis of goodwill related to its reporting units by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Company performed a discounted cash flow analysis and market multiple analysis for each reporting unit. Based upon the 

29
analysis performed, the Company determined that goodwill was fully impaired and recognized a non-cash pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of $391.1 million for the North American Retail reporting unit. The non-cash pre-tax impairment charge was primarily the result of a sustained decline in the Company's market capitalization. 

Other indefinite lived intangible assets were recorded as a result of acquisitions and primarily consist of tradenames. The Company values its tradenames using a relief-from-royalty approach, which assumes the value of the tradename is the discounted cash flows of the amount that would be paid by a hypothetical market participant had they not owned the tradename and instead licensed the tradename from another company. For the fiscal years ended February 29, 2020 and March 2. 2019, for certain other indefinite lived intangible assets, the Company completed a quantitative impairment analysis by comparing the fair value of the tradenames to their carrying value and recognized non-cash pre-tax tradename impairment charges of $41.8 million and $161.7 million, respectively, within goodwill and other impairments in the consolidated statement of operations. For the remaining other indefinite lived intangibles assets, the Company assessed qualitative factors as of February 29, 2020 in order to determine whether any events and circumstances existed which indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of these other indefinite lived assets did not exceed their carrying values and concluded no such events or circumstances existed which would require an impairment test be performed. As of February 29, 2020, the Company has $91.2 million of remaining other indefinite lived intangible assets. If actual results differ from the estimated future cash flows, which, among other factors, may be impacted by the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company may be exposed to additional impairment losses that may be material. In the future, if events or market conditions affect the estimated fair value to the extent that an asset is impaired, the Company will adjust the carrying value of these assets in the period in which the impairment occurs.

Self-Insurance: The Company utilizes a combination of insurance and self-insurance for a number of risks including workers’ compensation, general liability, cyber liability, property liability, automobile liability and employee related health care benefits (a portion of which is paid by its employees). Liabilities associated with the risks that the Company retains are estimated by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Although the Company’s claims experience has not displayed substantial volatility in the past, actual experience could materially vary from its historical experience in the future. Factors that affect these estimates include but are not limited to: inflation, the number and severity of claims and regulatory changes. In the future, if the Company concludes an adjustment to self-insurance accruals is required, the liability will be adjusted accordingly.

Taxes: The Company accounts for its income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Act. The Tax Act included a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been previously accrued has now been subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, the Company intends to continue to reinvest the unremitted earnings of its Canadian subsidiary. Accordingly, no additional provision has been made for U.S. or additional non-U.S. taxes with respect to these earnings, except for the transition tax resulting from the Tax Act. In the event of repatriation to the U.S., it is expected that such earnings would be subject to non-U.S. withholding taxes offset, in whole or in part, by U.S. foreign tax credits.

The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is at least more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the taxing authorities.

Potential volatility in the effective tax rate from year to year may occur as the Company is required each year to determine whether new information changes the assessment of both the probability that a tax position will effectively be sustained and the appropriateness of the amount of recognized benefit.

The Company also accrues for certain other taxes as required by its operations.

Judgment is required in determining the provision for income and other taxes and related accruals, and deferred tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Company’s various tax returns are subject to audit by various tax authorities. Although the Company believes that its estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.

30
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Form 10-K and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, but not limited to, the Company’s progress and anticipated progress towards its long-term objectives and the Company’s plans in response to COVID-19. Many of these forward-looking statements can be identified by use of words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, approximate, estimate, assume, continue, model, project, plan, goal and similar words and phrases. The Company's actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Such factors include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market, a challenging overall macroeconomic environment and related changes in the retailing environment; risks associated with COVID-19 and the governmental responses to it, including its impacts across the Company's businesses on demand and operations, as well as on the operations of the Company's suppliers and other business partners, and the effectiveness of the Company's actions taken in response to these risks; consumer preferences, spending habits and adoption of new technologies; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; civil disturbances and terrorist acts; unusual weather patterns and natural disasters; competition from existing and potential competitors across all channels; pricing pressures; liquidity; the ability to achieve anticipated cost savings, and to not exceed anticipated costs, associated with organizational changes and investments; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of the organization; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; potential supply chain disruption due to trade restrictions, and other factors such as natural disasters, such as pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, political instability, labor disturbances, product recalls, financial or operational instability of suppliers or carriers, and other items; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs and other terms to support the Company’s plans for new stores; the ability to establish and profitably maintain the appropriate mix of digital and physical presence in the markets it serves; the ability to assess and implement technologies in support of the Company’s development of its omnichannel capabilities; the ability to effectively and timely adjust the Company's plans in the face of the rapidly changing retail and economic environment, including in response to the COVID-19 pandemic; uncertainty in financial markets; volatility in the price of the Company’s common stock and its effect, and the effect of other factors, including the COVID-19 pandemic, on the Company’s capital allocation strategy; risks associated with the ability to achieve a successful outcome for its business concepts and to otherwise achieve its business strategies; the impact of intangible asset and other impairments; disruptions to the Company’s information technology systems including but not limited to security breaches of systems protecting consumer and employee information or other types of cybercrimes or cybersecurity attacks; reputational risk arising from challenges to the Company’s or a third party product or service supplier’s compliance with various laws, regulations or standards, including those related to labor, health, safety, privacy or the environment; reputational risk arising from third-party merchandise or service vendor performance in direct home delivery or assembly of product for customers; changes to statutory, regulatory and legal requirements, including without limitation proposed changes affecting international trade, changes to, or new tax laws or interpretation of existing tax laws; new, or developments in existing, litigation, claims or assessments; changes to, or new, accounting standards; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements.

ITEM 7A – QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK