ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Such factors include the following:

General economic factors beyond the Company’s control, including the impact of COVID-19, and changes in the economic climate could affect, and have adversely affected, the Company’s performance.

General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control could impact the Company’s forecasts and actual performance. These factors include housing markets, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters, such as pandemics, civil disturbances and terrorist activities, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, conditions affecting the retail environment for products sold by the Company and other matters that influence consumer spending. Changes in the economic climate and the COVID-19 pandemic have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, the Company’s performance, financial condition and results of operations.

In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a global pandemic. In an effort to slow the spread of COVID-19, national and local governments across areas in which the Company operates stores have enacted various measures including travel restrictions or bans, restrictions on events and gatherings, and various other “social distancing” recommendations. In response to the outbreak, the Company has temporarily closed all retail store locations as of March 23, 2020 (other than buybuy BABY and Harmon Face Values stores) until at least May 16, 2020. The extent and duration of the crisis and the temporary store closures remains uncertain and the overall impact may result in the recording of additional non-cash impairment charges. Even when restrictions are lifted and stores are reopened, the Company may be impacted by reduced store traffic and consumer spending due to, among other things, significant continued unemployment and consumer anxiety regarding concerns with shopping in physical stores and about the future state of the economy. The COVID-19 pandemic and the associated governmental responses to it have already impacted, and are expected to continue to impact at least during the pendency of the pandemic, the Company’s business and customer demand, as well as its financial results, liquidity and financial condition. 

The impacts and potential impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic which could directly or indirectly materially impact the Company's results of operations, liquidity or financial condition may also include, but are not limited to: 

•Potential failure of third parties on which the Company relies, including its suppliers, commercial banks, and other external business partners to meet their obligations to the Company, or significant disruptions in their ability to do so, which may be caused by their own financial or operational difficulties, or by travel restrictions and border closures; 

•Negative impact on the Company’s workforce. The spread of COVID-19, for example, has caused the Company to modify its business practices (including employee travel and work locations, cancellation of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences and a furlough of the majority of store associates and a portion of corporate associates), and the Company may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that the Company determines are in the best interests of its employees; 

•Significant changes in the political conditions in markets in which the Company distributes its products have occurred and are expected to continue at least during the pendency of the pandemic, including quarantines, governmental or regulatory actions, closures or other restrictions that limit or close its operating facilities, restrict its employees’ ability to travel or perform necessary business functions, or otherwise restrict the operations and purchasing behaviors of its business partners, suppliers or customers;

•Potential impact on the Company’s ability to meet its obligations to business partners, including under its unsecured revolving credit facility agreement, which contains a maximum leverage ratio, customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants, and its current lease obligations. The Company is renegotiating payment terms for goods, services and rent. Similar to other retailers, the Company has also withheld portions of and/or delayed payments to certain of its business 

8
partners as the Company negotiates revisions to its payment terms, in order to further maintain liquidity given the temporary store closures. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully renegotiate payment terms with such business partners, and the ultimate outcome of these activities including the responses of business partners are not yet known;

•Significant reductions in demand or significant volatility in demand for the Company’s products, which has been and may continue to be caused by, among other things, the temporary inability of consumers to shop at its stores or buy its products due to illness, quarantine or other travel restrictions, unemployment or other financial hardship, and shifts in demand away from one or more of the Company’s more discretionary or higher priced products to lower priced products; and

•Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to the Company.

More generally, in the future, the Company’s business, financial results, and financial condition may be negatively impacted by the effects of other disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, similar wide spread public health concerns, and other natural disasters.

The Company operates in the highly competitive retail business where the use of emerging technologies as well as unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of competitors may adversely affect the Company’s performance.

The retail business is highly competitive. The Company competes for customers, employees, locations, merchandise, technology, services and other important aspects of the business with many other local, regional and national retailers. Those competitors range from specialty retailers to department stores and discounters as well as online and multichannel retailers. Specifically, rapidly evolving technologies are altering the manner in which the Company and its competitors communicate and transact with customers. The Company’s execution of the elements of its transformation strategy is designed to adapt to these changes, in the context of competitors’ actions, customers' adoption of new technology, and related changes in customer behavior, and presents a specific risk in the event the Company is unable to successfully execute its plans or adjust them over time if needed. Further, unanticipated changes in pricing and other practices of the Company’s competitors, including promotional activity, such as thresholds for free shipping and rapid price fluctuation enabled by technology, may adversely affect the Company’s performance.

The Company’s failure to anticipate and respond in a timely fashion to changes in consumer preferences and demographic factors may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

The Company’s success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing merchandise trends, customer demands and demographics. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in customer tastes, preferences, shopping and spending patterns and other life interest decisions could lead to, among other things, excess inventories or a shortage of products and may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

Unusual weather patterns could adversely affect the Company’s performance.

The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by unusual weather patterns. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, hurricanes, floods, tornados or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures could adversely affect the Company’s performance.

A major disruption of the Company’s information technology systems could negatively impact operating results.

The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by a major disruption of the Company’s information technology systems. The Company relies heavily on these systems to process transactions, manage inventory replenishment, summarize results and control distribution of products. Despite numerous safeguards and careful contingency planning, these systems are still subject to power outages, telecommunication failures, cybercrimes, cybersecurity attacks and other catastrophic events. The Company’s information technology systems could also be adversely affected by changes that result from COVID-19, including, for example, the significant increase in remote working of its employees and the increase in online orders due to restrictions on its retail operations. A major disruption of the systems and their backup mechanisms may cause the Company to incur significant costs to repair the systems, experience a critical loss of data and/or result in business interruptions.

A breach of the Company’s data security systems or those of its third-party service providers could have a negative impact on the Company's operating results and financial performance due to possible loss of consumer confidence, as well as potential government penalties and private litigation.

The Company processes, transmits, stores and maintains certain information about its customers and employees in the ordinary course of business. In connection with certain activities, including, without limitation credit card processing, website hosting, data encryption and software support, the Company utilizes third party service providers, and the Company believes it takes appropriate 

9
steps to require such providers to secure such information and to assess their ability to do so. The Company invests considerable resources in protecting this sensitive information but is still subject to a possible security event, including but not limited to cybercrimes or cybersecurity attacks which may not be detected for a period of time. The recent shift to remote working by much of the Company’s workforce and the increase in online orders as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak may exacerbate these risks. A breach of its security systems or those of its third-party service providers resulting in unauthorized access to stored personal information could negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial performance. Certain aspects of the business, particularly the Company’s websites, heavily depend on consumers entrusting personal financial information to be transmitted securely over public networks. A loss of consumer confidence from such a breach could result in lost future sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation. In addition, a breach or other type of cybercrime or cybersecurity attack could cause the Company to incur significant costs to restore the integrity of its data and systems, could require the devotion of significant management resources, and could result in significant costs in government penalties and private litigation. In October 2019, the Company discovered that a third party acquired e-mail and password information from a source outside of the Company’s systems which was used to access less than 1% of the Company’s online customer accounts. On October 29, 2019, the Company sent notifications to certain customers as required by applicable legal requirements. None of the Company’s online customers’ payment cards were compromised as a result of this incident. Since becoming aware of this incident, the Company retained a leading security forensics firm and has implemented remedial measures.

A failure of the Company’s suppliers to adhere to appropriate laws, regulations or standards could negatively impact its reputation.

The Company purchases substantially all of its merchandise in the United States, the majority from domestic sources (who may manufacture overseas) and the balance from importers. The Company purchases a small amount of its merchandise directly from overseas sources. The failure of one of the Company’s domestic or foreign suppliers to adhere to labor, environmental, privacy, health and safety laws, regulations and standards could negatively impact the Company’s reputation and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.

Damage to the reputation of the Company in any aspect of its operations could potentially impact its operating and financial results.

The Company’s reputation is based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities, so incidents involving the Company, its products or the retail industry in general that erode customer trust or confidence could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and its business. As the Company increases the number of items available to be shipped directly from a vendor to a customer for home delivery or in-home assembly, any deficiencies in the performance of these third party merchandise vendors and service providers could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, despite the Company’s monitoring controls and procedures. In addition, challenges to the Company’s compliance with a variety of social, product, labor and environmental standards could also jeopardize its reputation and lead to adverse publicity, especially in social media. The use of social media by the Company and consumers has also increased the risk that the Company’s reputation could be negatively impacted. The availability of information and opinion on social media is immediate, as is its impact. The opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate and inflammatory information and opinion, is virtually limitless. Information about or affecting the Company is easily accessible and rapidly disseminated.

Damage to the reputation of the Company in any aspect of its operations could potentially impact its operating and financial results as well as require additional resources to rebuild its reputation.

Changes in statutory, regulatory, and other legal requirements at a local, state or provincial and national level, or deemed noncompliance with such requirements, could potentially impact the Company’s operating and financial results.

The Company is subject to numerous statutory, regulatory and legal requirements at a local, state or provincial and national level, and this regulatory environment is subject to constant change. The Company’s operating results could be negatively impacted by developments in these areas due to the costs of compliance in addition to possible government penalties and litigation in the event of deemed noncompliance. Changes in the law or the regulatory environment in the areas of customer, employee or product safety, environmental protection, privacy and information security, wage and hour laws, and international trade policy, among others, could potentially impact the Company’s operations and financial results.

Changes to accounting rules, regulations and tax laws, or new interpretations of existing accounting standards or tax laws could negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial position.

The Company’s operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by changes to accounting rules and regulations or new interpretations of existing accounting standards. The Company’s effective income tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting standards as well as changes in tax laws or the interpretations of these tax laws by courts and taxing authorities which 

10
could negatively impact the Company’s financial results. Such changes would include for example, the possible adoption by the United States of additional tariffs, or the disallowance of tax deductions, with respect to imported merchandise.

New, or developments in existing, litigation, claims or assessments could potentially impact the Company’s operating and financial results.

The Company is involved in litigation, claims and assessments incidental to the Company’s business, the disposition of which is not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in the Company’s assumptions related to these matters. While outcomes of such actions vary, any such claim or assessment against the Company could potentially impact the Company’s operations and financial results.

The success of the Company is dependent, in part, on managing costs of labor, merchandise and other expenses that are subject to factors beyond the Company’s control.

The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to manage operating costs and to look for opportunities to reduce costs. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, labor organizing activities and changing demographics. The Company’s ability to find qualified merchandise vendors and service providers and obtain access to products in a timely and efficient manner can be adversely affected by trade restrictions, political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, transportation costs, disruptions to its supply chain network serving the Company’s stores, distribution facilities and customers due to labor disturbances and other items, and other factors beyond the Company’s control, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on temporary store closures and furloughed employees.

Disruptions of the Company’s supply chain could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating and financial results.

Disruption of the Company’s supply chain capabilities due to trade restrictions, political instability, weather, natural disaster, pandemics (including COVID-19), terrorism, product recalls, labor supply or stoppages, the financial and/or operational instability of key suppliers and carriers, or other reasons could impair the Company’s ability to distribute its products. To the extent the Company is unable to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, it could materially impact the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.

The success of the Company is dependent, in part, on the ability of its employees in all areas of the organization to execute its business plan and, ultimately, to satisfy its customers.

The Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of the organization may be affected by a number of factors, including geographic relocation of employees, operations or facilities and the highly competitive markets in which the Company operates, including the markets for the types of skilled individuals needed to support the Company's continued success.

The success of the Company is dependent, in part, on its ability to establish and profitably maintain the appropriate mix of digital and physical presence in the markets it serves.

The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to develop its digital capabilities in conjunction with optimizing its physical store operations and market coverage, while maintaining profitability. The Company’s ability to develop these capabilities will depend on a number of factors, including its assessment and implementation of emerging technologies and its ability to manage the rapid increase in online orders as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company’s ability to optimize its store operations and market coverage requires active management of its real estate portfolio in a manner that permits store sizes, layouts, locations and offerings to evolve over time, which to the extent it involves the relocation of existing stores or the opening of additional stores will depend on a number of factors, including its identification and availability of suitable locations; its success in negotiating leases on acceptable terms; and its timely development of new stores, including the availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant construction and other delays based on weather or other events. These factors could potentially increase the cost of doing business and the risk that the Company’s business practices could result in liabilities that may adversely affect its performance, despite the exercise of reasonable care.

Disruptions in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to access its cash and cash equivalents.

The Company may have amounts of cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. While the Company closely manages its cash and cash equivalents balances to minimize risk, if there were disruptions in the financial 

11
markets or continue to be disruptions in the financial markets due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company cannot be assured that it will not experience losses on its deposits, and it may negatively impact the availability and cost of capital to us. 

The Company’s stock price has been and may continue to be subject to volatility, and this and other factors may affect elements of the Company’s capital allocation strategy such as share repurchases, future dividends and debt reduction.

The Company’s stock price has experienced volatility over time and this volatility may continue, in part due to factors such as those mentioned in this Item 1A. Stock volatility in itself may adversely affect shareholder confidence as well as employee morale and retention for those associates who receive equity grants as part of their compensation packages. The impact on employee morale and retention could adversely affect the Company’s business performance and financial results. Stock volatility and other factors may also affect elements of the Company’s capital allocation strategy, and its ability to use equity to fund acquisitions or raise capital.

As part of its capital allocation strategy, since December 2004, the Company’s Board of Directors has authorized several share repurchase programs, and in April 2016, the Board of Directors authorized a quarterly dividend program. Decisions regarding share repurchases and dividends are within the discretion of the Board of Directors, and will be influenced by a number of factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock, general business and economic conditions, the Company’s financial condition and operating results, the emergence of alternative investment or acquisition opportunities, changes in business strategy and other factors. Changes in, or the elimination of, the Company’s share repurchase programs or its dividend could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company's share repurchase program could change, and would be influenced by several factors, including business and market conditions, such as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company's stock price. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company has postponed its plans for share repurchases and suspended the payment of dividends and planned debt reductions.

The Company’s business would be adversely affected if the Company is unable to service its debt obligations.

The Company has incurred indebtedness under senior unsecured notes and has entered into a senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The Company’s ability to pay interest and principal when due, comply with debt covenants or repurchase the senior unsecured notes if a change of control occurs, will depend upon, among other things, sales and cash flow levels and other factors that affect its future financial and operating performance, including prevailing economic conditions and financial and business factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Given the current economic environment, the pendency of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the temporary closure of a substantial majority of the Company’s stores, for example, the Company may be unable to maintain compliance with the maximum leverage ratio contained in the Revolver in future periods, which would result in an event of default under the Revolver and could, at the direction of the requisite lenders, result in the acceleration of the obligation to repay the outstanding amounts thereunder if not waived by the applicable lenders. 

If the Company becomes unable in the future to generate sufficient cash flow to meet its debt service requirements, it may be forced to take remedial actions such as restructuring or refinancing its debt; seeking additional debt or equity capital; reducing or delaying its business activities, or selling assets. There can be no assurance that any such measures would be successful.

The Company has acquired several businesses and continues to evaluate potential business initiatives, including acquisitions, any of which could adversely impact the Company’s performance.

The Company believes it carefully evaluates and plans for the integration of newly acquired businesses, as well as carefully prepares for and executes on other business combinations and strategic initiatives that are part of the success of its business. However, such activities involve certain inherent risks, including the failure to retain key personnel from an acquired business; undisclosed or subsequently arising liabilities; challenges in the successful integration of operations, aligning standards, policies and systems; and the potential diversion of management resources from existing operations to respond to unforeseen issues arising in the context of the integration of a new business or initiative.

The outcome of the Company’s ongoing review of its business concepts is inherently uncertain and could adversely impact the Company’s performance.

The Company’s previously announced comprehensive review of its business concepts may result in unexpected costs, diversion of management’s attention and resources from its business, stock price volatility, difficulty in recruiting, hiring, motivating, and retaining talented and skilled personnel, and disruptions in operations, supplier relationships and employee relations, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. This review has resulted in the Company’s announcement of its entry into a definitive agreement to sell its PersonalizationMall.com business and the recent sale of its One Kings Lane business. However, there can be no assurances that the Company will enter into other sale transactions or that any pending sale transactions will be consummated on their announced terms or at all. As discussed above, Buyer was required to close the sale of 

12
PersonalizationMall.com on March 30, 2020, but failed to do so. Accordingly, the Company filed an action to require Buyer to close the transaction.

The Company relies on its management team and other key personnel.

The Company depends on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including its recently appointed Chief Executive Officer, Mark Tritton. In addition, the Company’s ability to achieve its operating goals depends on its ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. The Company competes with other companies both within and outside of its industry for talented personnel, and the Company may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel. Any such loss or failure could adversely affect the Company’s sales, financial condition, and operating results.

In particular, the Company’s continued success will depend in part on its ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees. If key employees terminate their employment, become ill as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, or if an insufficient number of employees is retained to maintain effective operations, the Company’s business activities may be adversely affected and its management team's attention may be diverted. In addition, the Company may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s sales, financial condition, and operating results.

ITEM 1B – UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2 – PROPERTIES