ITEM 1 – BUSINESS

Overview

Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") is an omnichannel retailer that makes it easy for its customers to feel at home. The Company sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings which operates under the names Bed Bath & Beyond ("BBB"), Christmas Tree Shops, Christmas Tree Shops andThat! or andThat! (collectively, "CTS"), Harmon, Harmon Face Values, or Face Values (collectively, "Harmon"), buybuy BABY ("Baby") and World Market, Cost Plus World Market, or Cost Plus (collectively, "Cost Plus World Market"). Customers can purchase products either in-store, online, with a mobile device or through a customer contact center. The Company generally has the ability to have customer purchases picked up in-store or shipped direct to the customer from the Company's distribution facilities, stores or vendors. The Company also operates Decorist, an online interior design platform that provides personalized home design services. In addition, the Company operates Linen Holdings, a provider of a variety of textile products, amenities and other goods to institutional customers in the hospitality, cruise line, healthcare and other industries. Additionally, the Company is a partner in a joint venture which operates retail stores in Mexico under the name Bed Bath & Beyond. The Company also operates PersonalizationMall.com (“PMall”), an industry-leading online retailer of personalized products. 

As discussed in more detail throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, as well as the corresponding governmental response and the Company’s management of the crisis has had a significant impact on the Company’s business. The consequences of the outbreak and impact to the economy continues to evolve and the full extent of the impact is uncertain as of the date of this filing. The outbreak has already brought a material disruption to the operations of the Company. As a result of ‘social distancing’ measures put into effect in March 2020, the Company began to temporarily close certain store locations that did not have a health and personal care department and as of March 23, 2020, all retail banner stores across the US and Canada have been temporarily closed except for stand-alone Baby and Harmon store locations, subject to state and local regulations. Customers can continue to order products online and with mobile devices. In conjunction with the temporary store closures, the Company implemented additional cost reductions, including a furlough of the majority of store associates and a portion of corporate associates until at least May 16, 2020.

On February 14, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its PMall business to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM ("Buyer"). The Buyer was required to close the transaction on March 30, 2020, but failed to do so. Accordingly, the Company filed an action to require the Buyer to close the transaction. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2019, on April 13, 2020, the Company sold One Kings Lane, an authority in home décor and design, offering a collection of select home goods, designer and vintage items.

The Company operates a robust ecommerce platform consisting of various websites and applications including bedbathandbeyond.com, bedbathandbeyond.ca, harmondiscount.com, facevalues.com, christmastreeshops.com, andthat.com, buybuybaby.com, buybuybaby.ca, harborlinen.com, t-ygroup.com, worldmarket.com, decorist.com, and personalizationmall.com. The Company also operates an established retail store base which consists of 1,500 stores, as of February 29, 2020, consisting as of such date of 976 Bed Bath & Beyond (“BBB”) stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada, 261 stores under the names of World Market, Cost Plus World Market or Cost Plus (collectively, “Cost Plus World Market”), 126 buybuy BABY (“Baby”) stores in 37 states and Canada, 81 stores under the names Christmas Tree Shops, Christmas Tree Shops andThat! or andThat! (collectively, “CTS”), 53 stores under the names Harmon, Harmon Face Values or Face Values (collectively, “Harmon”), and three One Kings Lane stores. In addition, the Company is a partner in a joint venture which operates ten stores in Mexico under the name Bed Bath & Beyond. 

During the twelve months ended February 29, 2020, the Company opened 9 new stores and closed 42 stores. Total store square footage, net of openings and closings, was approximately 42.3 million square feet. Over the past several years, the pace of the Company’s store openings has slowed, while the pace of store closings has increased. During fiscal 2019, the Company conducted a lease renegotiation project and started a store fleet optimization project for all Bed Bath & Beyond stores with the goal to create a better balance between its physical and digital presence within the markets it serves. The Company continues to analyze stores' performance, profitability, geographic location and customer demographics to understand how best to position its store locations in various markets across the country. In addition, the Company has more than 250 store leases that are up for renewal in 2020, which 

4
provide opportunity to evaluate additional store closures and relocations. As of February 29, 2020, the Company had distribution facilities totaling approximately 7.4 million square feet, supporting the growth of its customer facing digital channels as well as its stores and its institutional sales segment. 

The integration of retail store and customer facing digital channels allows the Company to provide its customers with a seamless shopping experience. In-store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store’s inventory or may also be shipped to a customer from one of the Company’s distribution facilities, a vendor, or another store. Purchases, including web and mobile, can be shipped to a customer from the Company’s distribution facilities, directly from vendors, or from a store. The Company’s customers can also choose to pick up orders reserved online in a store, as well as return online purchases to a store. Customers can also make purchases through one of the Company’s customer contact centers and in-store through The Beyond Store, the Company’s proprietary, web-based platform. These capabilities allow the Company to better serve customers across various channels. Beginning in April 2020, in some locations, customers can buy online and pick up in store or pick up orders curbside. 

The Company accounts for its operations as two operating segments: North American Retail and Institutional Sales. The Institutional Sales operating segment, which is comprised of Linen Holdings, does not meet the quantitative thresholds under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and therefore is not a reportable segment. Net sales outside of the U.S. for the Company were not material for 2019, 2018 and 2017.

Strategy

Bed Bath & Beyond’s mission is to re-establish its authority in the Home space and be the preferred omni channel Home destination.

To advance its mission, the Company is executing on a comprehensive plan to transform its business and position the Company for long-term success. The Company’s strategic growth plans are grounded in five key pillars: Product, Price, Promise, Place and People, and focused on a singular purpose to make it easy to feel at home. With these five pillars as its framework, the Company is embracing a commitment to build and manage a modern, durable business model. The Company remains focused on accelerating its extensive transformation efforts and driving against the following near-term priorities: 1) stabilizing sales and driving top-line growth; 2) resetting the cost structure; 3) reviewing and optimizing the Company’s asset base, including its portfolio of retail banners; and 4) refining the Company’s organization structure.  

Pricing. The Company believes in offering its customers high quality and differentiated products, services and solutions at the right price and value. The Company regularly monitors price levels at its competitors in order to ensure that its prices are in accordance with its pricing philosophy. The Company plans to invest in and clarify compelling value through its pricing strategy to sharpen its value-for-quality proposition and to acquire, regain and retain customers.

Merchandising. The Company sells a wide assortment of domestics merchandise and home furnishings. Domestics merchandise includes categories such as bed linens and related items, bath items and kitchen textiles. Home furnishings include categories such as kitchen and tabletop items, fine tabletop, basic housewares, general home furnishings (including furniture and wall décor), consumables and certain juvenile products. The Company strives to present an exciting and engaging assortment of products to its customers, including name brands, proprietary and exclusive brands, as well as personalized products. The Company pursues product differentiation in several ways, including its own product development, and exclusivity and limited distribution with its vendor partners. Some examples of the Company’s proprietary brands include Bee & Willow Home, Wamsutta, Olivia & Oliver, SALT and Artisanal Kitchen Supply. The Company, on an ongoing basis, tests new merchandise categories and adjusts the categories of merchandise carried in-store and online and may add new product categories or expand its merchandise assortment as appropriate. Additionally, the Company has and continues to integrate its merchandise assortments among its concepts.

The Company has been evolving its merchandise mix to provide a more inspirational and personal shopping experience with an expanded offering, which includes a more differentiated product mix, and enhanced services and solutions for customers, both in-store and across its customer facing digital channels.

As consumer shopping preferences continue to shift to customer facing digital channels, the Company believes its investments are driving a better omnichannel experience. The Company continues to improve the presentation and content as well as the functionality, general search and navigation features across its customer facing digital channels. The Company is also adapting its physical channels to further integrate its omnichannel capabilities to enhance the in-store customer experience by bringing products, services and solutions, as well as the Company’s brand, to life. This includes services such as reserve online and pickup in-store, purchase online and return in-store, and online appointment scheduling for one of the Company’s various registry services. Beginning in April 2020, in some locations, customers can buy online and pick up in store or pick up orders curbside.

Marketing. The Company’s marketing efforts include a full-range of online and off-line vehicles, including email, mobile SMS, social, search, digital display, content and influencer marketing, online affiliate programs, and public relations efforts, as well as 

5
traditional broadcast and print media such as postcards, newspaper inserts, circulars, and catalogs, all of which sometimes include coupon offers. The Company has been integrating its expansive customer data with other relevant third-party data and technology tools to develop and scale tailored and personalized marketing communications to drive further engagement with customers.

Customer Service. The Company’s customer-first approach is rooted in creating a noticeably better shopping experience for each and every customer. The Company invests in its people and in delivering high-quality products, services and solutions. As part of its objective to take care of its customers, the Company strives to make returns and exchanges hassle-free, whether in store or online. The Company’s best-in-class registry services for wedding, baby and college provide a differentiated opportunity to deepen customer relationships by demonstrating a high level of customer service during important life stages. Also, the Company continues to invest in the technology necessary to enable a more seamless interaction between its associates and its customers wherever, whenever and however they wish to interact with the Company. The Company’s customer contact centers provide 24/7 customer service and provide support by phone, email or live chat. The Company continues to focus its efforts and investments to strengthen its position as a leader in customer service.

Suppliers

The Company purchases substantially all of its merchandise in the United States, the majority from domestic sources (who may manufacture overseas) and the balance from importers. The Company purchases a small amount of its merchandise directly from overseas sources. In fiscal 2019, the Company purchased its merchandise from approximately 10,600 suppliers with its largest supplier accounting for approximately 4% of its merchandise purchases and the 10 largest suppliers accounting for approximately 18% of such purchases. The Company has no long term contracts for the purchases of merchandise. The Company believes that most merchandise, other than brand name goods, is available from a variety of sources and that most brand name goods can be replaced with comparable merchandise. 

The Company is in the early stages of expanding its direct importing and direct sourcing capabilities. The Company believes that its expanding global sourcing capabilities will allow for a higher penetration of its own sourced and developed proprietary product in its merchandise assortment.

Distribution

A substantial portion of the Company’s merchandise is shipped to stores through a combination of third-party facilities, including cross dock locations, or Company operated distribution facilities which are located throughout the United States. The remaining merchandise for stores is shipped directly from vendors. Merchandise is shipped directly to customers from one of the Company’s operated distribution facilities, stores or from vendors. The majority of the Company’s shipments are made by contract carriers depending upon location.

See “Item 2 – Properties” for additional information regarding the Company’s distribution facilities.

Associates

As of February 29, 2020, the Company employed approximately 55,000 regular full-time and part-time associates. In conjunction with the temporary store closures discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Company has furloughed the majority of store associates and a portion of corporate associates until at least May 16, 2020. The Company believes that its employee relations are very good.

Seasonality

The Company’s business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, its sales volumes are higher in the calendar months of August, November and December, and lower in February.

Transformation

The Company has undertaken significant change to adapt to the dynamic retail environment and the evolving needs of its customers to improve its competitive position and has been executing on a comprehensive plan to transform its business and position the Company for long-term success. On May 13, 2019, the Company announced that Mary Winston, a seasoned public company executive who had recently joined the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer, after the former CEO stepped down. At the time, the Board and management team were executing against four key near-term priorities that included: 1) stabilizing sales and driving top-line growth; 2) resetting the cost structure; 3) reviewing and optimizing the Company’s asset base, including its portfolio of retail banners; and 4) refining the Company’s organization structure. On October 6, 2019, the Company’s Board appointed Mark Tritton as President and CEO of the Company, effective as of November 4, 2019. During the 

6
first six months of his tenure, Mr. Tritton has been assessing the operations, portfolio, capabilities and culture of the Company to develop a strategic plan designed to position the Company to deliver long-term, sustainable growth. Mr. Tritton’s strategic growth plans for the Company are grounded in five key pillars: Product, Price, Promise, Place and People, and are focused on a singular purpose to make it easy to feel at home. With these five pillars as its framework, the Company is embracing a commitment to build and manage a modern, durable business model, while maintaining focus on accelerating its extensive transformation efforts and continuing to drive against the near-term priorities to generate savings and reinvest for future growth. 

Early actions include the extensive restructure of the Company’s leadership team, including the departure of six senior members, which was announced on December 17, 2019. Interim leaders were appointed in merchandising, digital, marketing, owned brands and legal, while the Company actively recruits for these roles. The new leadership team has been charged with streamlining decision-making, accelerating the pace of transformation, and re-establishing the Company’s authority in the home space through a more customer focused, omnichannel retail operation, a redefined product assortment, and a more convenient and inspirational shopping experience. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2019, on March 4, 2020, Joe Hartsig joined the Company as Executive Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer of Bed Bath & Beyond and President of Harmon Stores Inc. In addition, on April 21, 2020, the Company announced the appointment of John Hartmann as the Chief Operating Officer of the Company and President, buybuy BABY, effective as of May 18, 2020.

During the fiscal 2019 fourth quarter, the Company completed a sale-leaseback transaction with respect to approximately 2.1 million square feet of owned real estate, generating over $250 million in net proceeds, and also entered into a definitive agreement to sell PMall to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM for $252 million, subject to certain working capital and other adjustments (the buyer was required to close the PMall transaction on March 30, 2020, but failed to do so; accordingly, the Company filed an action to require the buyer to close the transaction). Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2019, the Company sold One Kings Lane to a third party for an undisclosed amount. While the Company cannot make any assurances, the Company, together with its outside advisors, continues to pursue other portfolio adjustments and evaluate the Company's remaining owned real estate in an effort to create a stronger and more focused portfolio and enhance shareholder value. The net proceeds from these transactions and any other potential cash-generating transactions could be used to reinvest in the Company’s core business operations to drive growth, fund share repurchases, reduce the Company’s outstanding debt, or some combination of these. In other activity, the Company has been further evaluating its product assortment and taking aggressive steps to rationalize the assortment and better manage its inventory. 

Given the current business environment, resulting in temporary store closures and further reductions in operating expenses, the Company has modified its capital investments, focusing on its core business and key projects that support its digital and omni fulfillment capabilities, including Buy Online Pick Up In Store and curbside pickup, omni inventory management, as well as digital marketing and personalization. The Company is also re-engineering its supply chain and vendor relationships, as well as further strengthening its owned-brand strategy. 

Competition

The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment and competes with other national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, mass merchandise stores and online only retailers. The Company believes the key to competing in its industry is to provide best-in-class customer service and customer experiences in stores and online, which includes a compelling price and value; high-quality and differentiated products, services and solutions; convenience; technology; personalization; and appealing and experiential store environments.

Tradenames and Service Marks

The Company uses the service marks “Bed Bath & Beyond,” “buybuy BABY,” “Christmas Tree Shops,” “andThat!,” “Harmon,” “Face Values,” “Cost Plus,” “World Market,” “Cost Plus World Market,” “PersonalizationMall.com,” “PMall” and “Decorist,” in connection with its retail services. The Company also uses the service marks “Harbor Linen” and “TY Group” in connection with its institutional sales segment. The Company has registered trademarks and service marks or is seeking registrations for these and other trademarks and service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, the Company has registered or has applications pending with the trademark registries of several foreign countries, including having registered the “Bed Bath & Beyond” name and logo in Canada and Mexico and having registered the “buybuy BABY” name and logo in Canada. The Company also owns a number of product trademarks. The Company files patent applications and seeks copyright registrations where it deems such to be advantageous to the business. The Company believes that its name recognition and service marks are important elements of the Company’s merchandising strategy.

Available Information

The Company makes available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), free of charge, through its website, www.bedbathandbeyond.com, the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports 

7
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, electronically filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS