Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to market risks including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, commodity prices, and investment security prices. They may enter into various risk management contracts to mitigate exposure to these risks, including swaps, options, futures, and forward contracts. CMS Energy and Consumers enter into these contracts using established policies and procedures, under the direction of an executive oversight committee consisting of certain officers and a risk committee consisting of those and other officers and business managers.

The following risk sensitivities illustrate the potential loss in fair value, cash flows, or future earnings from financial instruments, assuming a hypothetical adverse change in market rates or prices of ten percent. Potential losses could exceed the amounts shown in the sensitivity analyses if changes in market rates or prices were to exceed ten percent.

Interest-Rate Risk

Long-Term Debt: CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to interest-rate risk resulting from issuing fixed-rate and variable-rate debt instruments. CMS Energy and Consumers use a combination of these instruments, and may also enter into interest-rate swap agreements, in order to manage this risk and to achieve a reasonable cost of capital.

83
Presented in the following table is a sensitivity analysis of interest-rate risk on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ debt instruments, which includes the effects of interest-rate swaps (assuming an adverse change in market interest rates of ten percent):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The fair value losses in the above table could be realized only if CMS Energy and Consumers transferred all of their fixed-rate financing to other creditors. The annual earnings exposure related to variable-rate financing was immaterial for both CMS Energy and Consumers at December 31, 2019 and 2018, assuming an adverse change in market interest rates of ten percent.

Notes Receivable: CMS Energy is exposed to interest-rate risk resulting from EnerBank’s fixed-rate installment loans. EnerBank provides unsecured consumer installment loans, largely for financing home improvements.

Presented in the following table is a sensitivity analysis of interest-rate risk on EnerBank’s notes receivable, which includes the effects of interest-rate swaps (assuming an adverse change in market interest rates of ten percent):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The fair value losses for CMS Energy in the above table could be realized only if EnerBank’s loans were sold to other parties. The annual earnings exposure related to variable-rate interest receipts at EnerBank was immaterial at December 31, 2019 and 2018. For additional details on financial instruments, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7, Financial Instruments.

84
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data