Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is a combined report of CMS Energy and Consumers.

Executive Overview

CMS Energy is an energy company operating primarily in Michigan. It is the parent holding company of several subsidiaries, including Consumers, an electric and gas utility; CMS Enterprises, primarily a domestic independent power producer and marketer; and EnerBank, an industrial bank located in Utah. Consumers’ electric utility operations include the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution, and sale of electricity, and Consumers’ gas utility operations include the purchase, transmission, storage, distribution, and sale of natural gas. Consumers’ customer base consists of a mix of residential, commercial, and diversified industrial customers. CMS Enterprises, through its subsidiaries and equity investments, is engaged in domestic independent power production, including the development and operation of renewable generation, and the marketing of independent power production. EnerBank provides unsecured consumer installment loans, largely for financing home improvements.

CMS Energy and Consumers manage their businesses by the nature of services each provides. CMS Energy operates principally in four business segments: electric utility; gas utility; enterprises, its non‑utility operations and investments; and EnerBank. Consumers operates principally in two business segments: electric utility and gas utility. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses are affected primarily by:

•regulation and regulatory matters

•state and federal legislation

•economic conditions

•weather

•energy commodity prices

•interest rates

•their securities’ credit ratings

The Triple Bottom Line

CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ purpose is to achieve world class performance while delivering hometown service. In support of this purpose, the companies employ the “Consumers Energy Way,” a lean operating model designed to improve safety, quality, cost, delivery, and employee morale.

50
CMS Energy and Consumers measure their progress toward the purpose by considering their impact on the “triple bottom line” of people, planet, and profit, which is underpinned by performance; this consideration takes into account not only the economic value that the companies create for customers and investors, but also their responsibility to social and environmental goals. The triple bottom line balances the interests of the companies’ employees, customers, suppliers, regulators, creditors, Michigan’s residents, the investment community, and other stakeholders, and it reflects the broader societal impacts of the companies’ activities.

Consumers’ Sustainability Report, which is available to the public, describes the company’s progress toward world class performance measured in the areas of people, planet, and profit.

People: The people element of the triple bottom line represents CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ commitment to their employees, their customers, the residents of local communities in which the companies do business, and other stakeholders.

The safety of employees, customers, and the general public is a priority of CMS Energy and Consumers. Accordingly, CMS Energy and Consumers have worked to integrate a set of safety principles into their business operations and culture. These principles include complying with applicable safety, health, and security regulations and implementing programs and processes aimed at continually improving safety and security conditions. Over the last ten years, Consumers’ OSHA recordable incident rate has decreased by over 63 percent.

CMS Energy and Consumers also place a high priority on customer value and on providing a hometown customer experience. Consumers’ customer-driven investment program is aimed at improving safety and increasing electric and gas reliability, which has resulted in measurable improvements in customer satisfaction.

Central to Consumers’ commitment to its customers are the initiatives it has undertaken to keep electricity and natural gas affordable, including:

•replacement of coal-fueled generation and PPAs with renewable energy and energy waste reduction and demand response programs

•targeted infrastructure investment to improve reliability and safety and to reduce maintenance costs

•information and control system efficiencies

•employee and retiree health care cost sharing

•workforce productivity enhancements

In addition, Consumers’ gas commodity costs declined by 62 percent from 2009 through 2019, due not only to a decrease in market prices but also to Consumers’ improvements to its gas infrastructure and optimization of its gas purchasing and storage strategy. These gas commodity savings are passed on to customers.

Planet: The planet element of the triple bottom line represents CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ commitment to protect the environment. This commitment extends beyond compliance with various state and federal environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. Management considers climate change 

51
and other environmental risks in the companies’ strategy development, business planning, and enterprise risk management processes.

CMS Energy and Consumers continue to focus on opportunities to protect the environment and to reduce their carbon footprint. As a result of actions already taken by CMS Energy and Consumers, the companies have:

•decreased their combined percentage of electric supply (self-generated and purchased) from coal by 18 percentage points since 2015

•reduced carbon dioxide emissions by over 35 percent since 2005

•reduced the amount of water used to generate electricity by 31 percent since 2012

•reduced landfill waste disposal by over 1.3 million tons since 1992

•reduced methane emissions by 17 percent since 2012

Additionally, over the last 20 years, Consumers has reduced its sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, particulate matter, and mercury emissions by over 90 percent. Presented in the following illustration are Consumers’ reductions in these emissions (Consumers began tracking mercury emissions in 2007):

52
The 2016 Energy Law:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•established a goal of 35 percent combined renewable energy and energy waste reduction by 2025; Consumers has achieved 22 percent of the combined renewable energy and energy waste reduction goal through 2019

•authorized incentives for demand response programs and expanded existing incentives for energy efficiency programs, referring to the combined initiatives as energy waste reduction programs

•established an integrated planning process for new generation resources

Consumers filed an IRP with the MPSC in June 2018, detailing its Clean Energy Plan. In March 2019, Consumers and a broad coalition of key stakeholders, including business customers, environmental groups, the MPSC Staff, and the Michigan Attorney General, filed an agreement settling the IRP with the MPSC and the MPSC approved it in June 2019.

Under its Clean Energy Plan, Consumers will meet the requirements of the 2016 Energy Law using its clean and lean strategy, which focuses on increasing the generation of renewable energy, helping customers use less energy, and offering demand response programs to reduce demand during critical peak times. Further, Consumers plans to replace its coal-fueled generation predominantly with investment in renewable energy, which will enable Consumers to meet and exceed the 2016 Energy Law renewable energy requirements and fulfill increasing customer demand for renewable energy. Through its Clean Energy Plan, Consumers expects to reduce carbon emissions of its owned generation by more than 90 percent from its 2005 levels by 2040. Additionally, the plan will allow Consumers to achieve a breakthrough goal of at least 50 percent combined renewable energy and energy waste reduction by 2030.

53
Presented in the following illustration is Consumers’ 2019 capacity portfolio and its future capacity portfolio as projected in the IRP. This illustration includes the effects of purchased capacity and energy waste reduction and uses the nameplate capacity of renewable energy sources:

In addition to Consumers’ efforts to reduce the electric utility’s carbon footprint, it is also making efforts to reduce the gas utility’s methane footprint. In October 2019, Consumers set a goal of net-zero methane emissions from its natural gas delivery system by 2030. Consumers’ Methane Reduction Plan, released in November 2019, outlines its plan to reach this net-zero emissions goal. Consumers plans to reduce methane emissions from its system by about 80 percent by accelerating the replacement of aging pipe, rehabilitating or retiring outdated infrastructure, and adopting new technologies and practices. The remaining emissions will be eliminated by purchasing and/or producing renewable natural gas. 

Additionally, to advance its environmental stewardship in Michigan and to minimize the impact of future regulations, Consumers announced the following five‑year targets during 2018:

•to reduce its water use by one billion gallons; during 2018 and 2019, Consumers reduced its water usage by over 400 million gallons

•to reduce the amount of waste taken to landfills by 35 percent; during 2018 and 2019, Consumers reduced its waste to landfills by 10 percent

•to enhance, restore, or protect 5,000 acres of land; during 2018 and 2019, Consumers enhanced, restored, or protected over 2,200 acres of land

54
CMS Energy, through its non‑utility businesses, continues to pursue further opportunities for the development of renewable generation projects. In recent years, CMS Enterprises completed the development of and now operates a wind generation project and three solar generation projects.

CMS Energy and Consumers are monitoring numerous legislative, policy, and regulatory initiatives, including those to regulate greenhouse gases, and related litigation. While CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the outcome of these matters, which could have a material effect on the companies, they intend to continue to move forward with their clean and lean strategy.

Profit: The profit element of the triple bottom line represents CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ commitment to meeting their financial objectives and providing economic development opportunities and benefits in the communities in which they do business. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial strength allows them to maintain solid investment-grade credit ratings and thereby reduce funding costs for the benefit of customers and investors, to preserve and create jobs, and to reinvest in the communities they serve.

In 2019, CMS Energy’s net income available to common stockholders was $680 million, and diluted EPS were $2.39. This compares with net income available to common stockholders of $657 million and diluted EPS of $2.32 in 2018. In 2019, the benefits from electric and gas rate increases, higher gas sales due primarily to colder weather, cost control measures, and the gain on the sale of transmission equipment were offset partially by lower electric sales due primarily to unfavorable weather, higher depreciation and maintenance, higher service restoration costs from 2019 storms, lower earnings at the enterprises segment, and an accrual for a legacy legal obligation. A more detailed discussion of the factors affecting CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ performance can be found in the Results of Operations section that follows this Executive Overview.

Consumers projects that its electric weather-normalized deliveries will decrease slightly and gas weather-normalized deliveries will remain stable through 2024. This outlook reflects the effects of energy waste reduction programs offset largely by modest growth in electric and gas demand.

Performance: Impacting the Triple Bottom Line

CMS Energy and Consumers remain committed to achieving world class performance while delivering hometown service. Leveraging the Consumers Energy Way, CMS Energy and Consumers accomplished the following during 2019:

•received approval of Consumers’ IRP, which supports the companies’ clean energy goals

•launched a three-year electric vehicle pilot program

•committed to invest $7.5 billion in Michigan businesses over the next five years; of that amount,$1.5 billion will be invested in diverse suppliers

•completed the deployment of automated gas meters in areas where Consumers provides only natural gas to customers, allowing for drive-by meter reading

•ranked the highest in customer satisfaction among large natural gas providers in the Midwest, according to a residential customer satisfaction study conducted by J.D. Power, a global marketing information company

CMS Energy and Consumers will continue to utilize the Consumers Energy Way to enable them to achieve world class performance and positively impact the triple bottom line. Consumers’ investment plan and the regulatory environment in which it operates also drive its ability to impact the triple bottom line.

Investment Plan: Consumers expects to make capital investments of $25 billion over the next ten years. Over the next five years, Consumers expects to make significant expenditures on infrastructure upgrades 

55
and replacements and electric supply projects. While it has a large number of potential investment opportunities that would add customer value, Consumers has prioritized its spending based on the criteria of enhancing public safety, increasing reliability, maintaining affordability for its customers, and advancing its environmental stewardship. Consumers’ investment program is expected to result in annual rate-base growth of six to eight percent. This rate-base growth, together with cost-control measures, should allow Consumers to maintain affordable customer prices.

Presented in the following illustration are planned capital expenditures of $12.2 billion that Consumers expects to make from 2020 through 2024: 

Of this amount, Consumers plans to spend $9.4 billion over the next five years to maintain and upgrade its gas infrastructure and electric distribution systems in order to enhance safety and reliability, improve customer satisfaction, and reduce energy waste on those systems. The gas infrastructure projects comprise $5.0 billion to sustain deliverability and enhance pipeline integrity and safety. These projects, which involve replacement of mains and services and enhancement of transmission and storage systems, should reduce the minor quantity of methane emissions released as gas is transported. The electric distribution projects comprise $4.4 billion to strengthen circuits and substations and replace poles. Consumers also expects to spend $2.8 billion on electric supply projects, primarily new renewable generation.

Regulation: Regulatory matters are a key aspect of Consumers’ business, particularly rate cases and regulatory proceedings before the MPSC, which permit recovery of new investments while helping to ensure that customer rates are fair and affordable. Important regulatory events and developments not already discussed are summarized below.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

56
$113 million TCJA credit to customer bills, the approved settlement agreement resulted in an $89 million net increase in annual rates. The settlement agreement also provided for deferred accounting treatment for distribution-related capital investments exceeding certain amounts. Consumers also agreed to not file a new electric rate case prior to January 2020.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•2019 Gas Rate Case: In December 2019, Consumers filed an application with the MPSC seeking an annual rate increase of $245 million, based on a 10.5 percent authorized return on equity. The filing also seeks approval of a revenue decoupling mechanism that would annually reconcile Consumers’ actual weather-normalized non‑fuel revenues with the revenues approved by the MPSC. 

•Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: The TCJA, which changed existing federal tax law and included numerous provisions that affect businesses, was signed into law in December 2017. In October 2018, Consumers filed an application to address the December 31, 2017 remeasurement of its deferred income taxes and other base rate impacts of the TCJA on customers. In September 2019, the MPSC authorized Consumers to begin returning net regulatory tax liabilities of $0.4 billion to gas customers through rates approved in the 2018 gas rate case and $1.2 billion to electric customers through rates to be determined in Consumers’ next electric rate case. Until then, the MPSC authorized Consumers to refund $32 million to electric customers through a temporary bill credit. For details on these proceedings, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Regulatory Matters.

Looking Forward

CMS Energy and Consumers will continue to consider the impact on the triple bottom line of people, planet, and profit in their daily operations as well as in their long-term strategic decisions. Consumers will continue to seek fair and timely regulatory treatment that will support its customer-driven investment plan, while pursuing cost-control measures that will allow it to maintain sustainable customer base rates. The Consumers Energy Way is an important means of realizing CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ purpose of achieving world class performance while delivering hometown service.

57
Results of Operations

CMS Energy Consolidated Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

58
Presented in the following table are specific after-tax changes to net income available to common stockholders for 2019 versus 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 See Note 14, Income Taxes.

3 See Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments—CMS Energy Contingencies—Gas Index Price Reporting Litigation. 

For specific after-tax changes to net income available to common stockholders for 2018 versus 2017, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—CMS Energy Consolidated Results of Operations, in the Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed February 5, 2019.

59
Consumers Electric Utility Results of Operations

Presented in the following table are the detailed changes to the electric utility’s net income available to common stockholders for 2019 versus 2018 (amounts are presented pre-tax, with the exception of income tax changes):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 Under the provisions of ASU 2016-02, Leases, fixed energy and capacity costs associated with Consumers’ PPAs that are accounted for as finance leases are presented as amortization and interest expense, rather than purchased power expense. See Note 10, Leases and Palisades Financing for more information about Consumers’ leases.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4 See Note 14, Income Taxes.

60
For detailed changes to the electric utility’s net income available to common stockholders for 2018 versus 2017, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Consumers Electric Utility Results of Operations, in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed February 5, 2019.

Consumers Gas Utility Results of Operations 

Presented in the following table are the detailed changes to the gas utility’s net income available to common stockholders for 2019 versus 2018 (amounts are presented pre-tax, with the exception of income tax changes):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For detailed changes to the gas utility’s net income available to common stockholders for 2018 versus 2017, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Consumers Gas Utility Results of Operations, in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed February 5, 2019.

61
Enterprises Results of Operations

Presented in the following table are the detailed after-tax changes to the enterprises segment’s net income available to common stockholders for 2019 versus 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See Note 22, Asset Sales and Exit Activities.

For detailed after-tax changes to the enterprises segment’s net income available to common stockholders for 2018 versus 2017, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Enterprises Results of Operations, in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed February 5, 2019.

EnerBank Results of Operations

Presented in the following table are the detailed after-tax changes to EnerBank’s net income available to common stockholders for 2019 versus 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Presented in the following table are the detailed after-tax changes to EnerBank’s net income available to common stockholders for 2018 versus 2017: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See Note 14, Income Taxes.

62
Corporate Interest and Other Results of Operations

Presented in the following table are the detailed after-tax changes to corporate interest and other results for 2019 versus 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments—CMS Energy Contingencies—Gas Index Price Reporting Litigation. 

Presented in the following table are the detailed after-tax changes to corporate interest and other results for 2018 versus 2017: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See Note 14, Income Taxes.

2 Eliminated on CMS Energy’s consolidated statements of income.

63
Cash Position, Investing, and Financing

At December 31, 2019, CMS Energy had $157 million of consolidated cash and cash equivalents, which included $17 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. At December 31, 2019, Consumers had $28 million of consolidated cash and cash equivalents, which included $17 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents.

Operating Activities

Presented in the following table are specific components of net cash provided by operating activities for 2019 versus 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Non‑cash transactions comprise depreciation and amortization, changes in deferred income taxes and investment tax credits, bad debt expense, and other non‑cash operating activities and reconciling adjustments.

2 Core working capital comprises accounts receivable, notes receivable, accrued revenue, inventories, accounts payable, and accrued rate refunds.

3 CMS Energy received alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit refunds of $68 million in 2019 and $125 million in 2018.

For specific components of net cash provided by operating activities for 2018 versus 2017, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cash Position, Investing, and Financing—Operating Activities, in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed February 5, 2019.

64
Investing Activities

Presented in the following table are specific components of net cash used in investing activities for 2019 versus 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 See Note 7, Financial Instruments.

2 See Note 22, Asset Sales and Exit Activities 

For specific components of net cash used in investing activities for 2018 versus 2017, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cash Position, Investing, and Financing—Investing Activities, in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed February 5, 2019.

65
Financing Activities

Presented in the following table are specific components of net cash provided by financing activities for 2019 versus 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For specific components of net cash provided by (used in) financing activities for 2018 versus 2017, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cash Position, Investing, and Financing—Financing Activities, in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed February 5, 2019.

66
Capital Resources and Liquidity

CMS Energy uses dividends and tax-sharing payments from its subsidiaries and external financing and capital transactions to invest in its utility and non‑utility businesses, retire debt, pay dividends, and fund its other obligations. The ability of CMS Energy’s subsidiaries, including Consumers, to pay dividends to CMS Energy depends upon each subsidiary’s revenues, earnings, cash needs, and other factors. In addition, Consumers’ ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain terms included in its debt covenants and articles of incorporation and potentially by FERC requirements and provisions under the Federal Power Act and the Natural Gas Act. For additional details on Consumers’ dividend restrictions, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5, Financings and Capitalization—Dividend Restrictions. For the year ended December 31, 2019, Consumers paid $592 million in dividends on its common stock to CMS Energy.

As a result of a provision in the TCJA, CMS Energy is required to recover all alternative minimum tax credits over four years through offsets of regular tax and through cash refunds. CMS Energy expects to be able to offset regular tax primarily through the use of federal net operating loss carryforwards and, accordingly, receive alternative minimum tax credit refunds through 2021. Another provision in the TCJA excludes rate-regulated utilities from 100 percent cost expensing of certain property. This provision will cause Consumers to make higher tax-sharing payments to CMS Energy, which in turn might permit CMS Energy to maintain lower levels of debt in order to invest in its businesses, pay dividends, and fund its general obligations. Consumers expects to have sufficient funding sources available to issue credits to customers for all impacts of the TCJA.

In 2018, CMS Energy entered into an equity offering program under which it may sell, from time to time, shares of CMS Energy common stock having an aggregate sales price of up to $250 million. Under this program, CMS Energy may sell its common stock in privately negotiated transactions, in “at the market” offerings, through forward sales transactions or otherwise. CMS Energy has entered into forward sales contracts having an aggregate sales price of $250 million. These contracts allow CMS Energy to either physically settle the contracts by issuing shares of its common stock at the then-applicable forward sale price specified by the agreement or net settle the contracts through the delivery or receipt of cash or shares. CMS Energy may settle the contracts at any time through their maturity dates, and presently intends to physically settle the contracts by delivering shares of its common stock. For more information on the forward sale contracts, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5, Financings and Capitalization—Issuance of Common Stock.

Consumers uses cash flows generated from operations and external financing transactions, as well as stockholder contributions from CMS Energy, to fund capital expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, contribute to its employee benefit plans, and fund its other obligations. Accelerated pension funding in prior years and several initiatives to reduce costs have helped improve cash flows from operating activities. 

Access to the financial and capital markets depends on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ credit ratings and on market conditions. As evidenced by past financing transactions, CMS Energy and Consumers have had ready access to these markets. Barring major market dislocations or disruptions, CMS Energy and Consumers expect to continue to have ready access to the financial and capital markets. If access to these markets were to diminish or otherwise become restricted, CMS Energy and Consumers would implement contingency plans to address debt maturities, which could include reduced capital spending.

At December 31, 2019, CMS Energy had $544 million of its revolving credit facility available and Consumers had $1.1 billion available under its revolving credit facilities. CMS Energy and Consumers use these credit facilities for general working capital purposes and to issue letters of credit. An additional source of liquidity is Consumers’ commercial paper program, which allows Consumers to issue, in one or 

67
more placements, up to $500 million in the aggregate in commercial paper notes with maturities of up to 365 days at market interest rates. These issuances are supported by Consumers’ revolving credit facilities. While the amount of outstanding commercial paper does not reduce the available capacity of the revolving credit facilities, Consumers does not intend to issue commercial paper in an amount exceeding the available capacity of the facilities. At December 31, 2019, there were $90 million commercial paper notes outstanding under this program. For additional details on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ secured revolving credit facilities and commercial paper program, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5, Financings and Capitalization.

Certain of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ credit agreements, debt indentures, and other facilities contain covenants that require CMS Energy and Consumers to maintain certain financial ratios, as defined therein. At December 31, 2019, no default had occurred with respect to any financial covenants contained in CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ credit agreements, debt indentures, or other facilities. CMS Energy and Consumers were each in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2019, as presented in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Applies to CMS Energy’s $550 million revolving credit agreement.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ cash management plan include controlling operating expenses and capital expenditures and evaluating market conditions for financing and refinancing opportunities. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ present level of cash and expected cash flows from operating activities, together with access to sources of liquidity, are anticipated to be sufficient to fund the companies’ contractual obligations for 2020 and beyond.

68
Contractual Obligations: Presented in the following table are CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ contractual obligations. The table excludes all amounts classified as current liabilities on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ consolidated balance sheets, other than the current portion of long-term debt, leases, and other financing.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Long-term contracts for the purchase of commodities and related services, and construction and service agreements. The commodities and related services include natural gas and coal and associated transportation.

2 Long-term PPAs from certain affiliates of CMS Enterprises.

CMS Energy and Consumers also have recognized non‑current liabilities for which the timing of payments cannot be reasonably estimated. These items, which are excluded from the table above, include regulatory liabilities, deferred income taxes, workers’ compensation liabilities, accrued liabilities under renewable energy programs, and other liabilities. Retirement benefits are also excluded from the table 

69
above. For details related to benefit payments, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12, Retirement Benefits.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements: CMS Energy, Consumers, and certain of their subsidiaries enter into various arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include indemnities, surety bonds, letters of credit, and financial and performance guarantees. Additionally, CMS Energy has entered into forward sales contracts to sell its common stock in order to invest in its utility and non-utility businesses; these contracts have an aggregate sales price of $250 million and mature in 2020. For additional details on the companies’ indemnity and guarantee arrangements, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments—Guarantees. For additional details on letters of credit and CMS Energy’s forward sales contracts, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5, Financings and Capitalization.

Capital Expenditures: Over the next five years, Consumers expect to make substantial capital investments. Consumers may revise its forecasts of capital expenditures periodically due to a number of factors, including environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, and the ability to access capital. Presented in the following table are Consumers’ estimated capital expenditures, including lease commitments, for 2020 through 2024:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outlook

Several business trends and uncertainties may affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial condition and results of operations. These trends and uncertainties could have a material impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ consolidated income, cash flows, or financial position. For additional details regarding these and other uncertainties, see Forward-Looking Statements and Information; Item 1A. Risk Factors; Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Regulatory Matters; and Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments.

Consumers Electric Utility Outlook and Uncertainties

Clean Energy Plan: While Consumers continues to experience modest growth in demand for electricity due to Michigan’s growing economy and increased use of air conditioning, consumer electronics, and other electric devices, it expects that increase in demand to be offset by the effects of energy efficiency and conservation.

In June 2018, Consumers filed an IRP with the MPSC detailing its Clean Energy Plan. In March 2019, Consumers and a broad coalition of key stakeholders, including business customers, environmental groups, the MPSC Staff, and the Michigan Attorney General, filed an agreement settling the IRP with the MPSC and the MPSC approved it in June 2019.

70
Through its Clean Energy Plan, Consumers expects to reduce carbon emissions of its owned generation by more than 90 percent from its 2005 levels by 2040 and eliminate the use of coal to generate electricity by 2040. Specifically, the Clean Energy Plan provides for:

•the retirement of the D.E. Karn 1 & 2 coal-fueled generating units, totaling 503 MW, in 2023

•the continued assessment in future IRP filings concerning the retirement of the J.H. Campbell 1 & 2 coal-fueled generating units, totaling 609 MW, in 2025 or earlier

Under the Clean Energy Plan, Consumers will replace the capacity to be retired with:

•increased demand response programs

•increased energy efficiency

•increased renewable energy generation

•conservation voltage reduction

•increased pumped storage

Consumers will competitively bid new capacity and at least 50 percent of the new capacity will be built and owned by third parties; the remainder will be owned and operated by Consumers. In support of its Clean Energy Plan, Consumers issued a request for proposals in September 2019 to acquire up to 300 MW of new capacity from projects to be operational in Michigan’s Lower Peninsula by May 2022. Specifically, Consumers solicited offers to enter into PPAs with or purchase solar generation projects ranging in size from 20 MW to 150 MW and to enter into PPAs with PURPA qualifying facilities up to 20 MW. Any contracts entered into as a result of the request for proposals would be subject to MPSC approval.

As approved by the MPSC, the IRP allows Consumers to earn a financial incentive on PPAs approved by the MPSC after January 1, 2019. Additionally, the IRP allows for recovery of significant increases in demand response costs. The MPSC separately approved an associated financial incentive for exceeding certain demand response targets. Consumers is required to file a new IRP by June 2021.

PURPA: PURPA requires Consumers to purchase power from qualifying cogeneration and small power production facilities at a price approved by the MPSC that is meant to represent Consumers’ “avoided cost” of generating power or purchasing power from another source. In 2017, the MPSC issued an order establishing an avoided-cost methodology for determining the price that Consumers must pay to purchase power under PURPA. Among other things, the MPSC’s order changed the basis of Consumers’ avoided cost from the cost of coal-fueled generating units to that of natural gas-fueled generating units. 

In order to address various complaints raised concerning the 2017 order, Consumers and various PURPA developers filed a settlement agreement with the MPSC in August 2019. Under the settlement agreement, which the MPSC approved in September 2019, Consumers will enter into contracts to purchase 584 MW of power from qualifying solar generation projects by September 2023. Of this amount, 170 MW will be purchased at the full avoided-cost rates set in the 2017 order. The remaining 414 MW will be purchased at a capacity payment equal to the MISO planning resource auction price and a designated energy price previously approved by the MPSC.

In the approved IRP settlement agreement, Consumers agreed to a new method of calculating avoided cost going forward, based on a competitive bidding process that will enable Consumers to purchase energy from new generation at competitive prices and mitigate the risk of forced purchases of unneeded or uneconomical renewable generation. 

In September 2019, FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that could result in modifications to the present federal regulations implementing PURPA. Among other things, the proposal would change the rules for measuring the size of qualifying facilities and determining whether certain PURPA projects have 

71
access to wholesale markets. The proposal would also provide states with more flexibility to set the prices paid to PURPA projects. Consumers does not anticipate the proposed rulemaking will affect the PURPA projects with which it has agreements. Consumers cannot predict the outcome of this proposed rulemaking.

Renewable Energy Plan: The 2016 Energy Law raised the renewable energy standard to 15 percent in 2021, with an interim target of 12.5 percent in 2019. Consumers is required to submit RECs, which represent proof that the associated electricity was generated from a renewable energy resource, in an amount equal to at least the required percentage of Consumers’ electric sales volume each year. Under its renewable energy plan, Consumers expects to meet its renewable energy requirement each year with a combination of newly generated RECs and previously generated RECs carried over from prior years. Consumers met the interim target of 12.5 percent for 2019 and will demonstrate its compliance by filing the 2019 renewable energy cost reconciliation with the MPSC in June 2020. 

In conjunction with its renewable energy plan, a third phase of Consumers’ Cross Winds® Energy Park, with nameplate capacity of 76 MW, began operations in December 2019. This project qualifies for certain federal production tax credits, generating cost savings that will be passed on to customers.

In February 2019, the MPSC issued an order ruling on amendments Consumers had requested to its renewable energy plan, and approved the acquisition of up to 525 MW of new wind generation projects. Under the renewable energy plan, Consumers is authorized to earn a 10.7 percent return on equity on any projects approved by the MPSC. Also in February 2019, the MPSC approved an agreement under which Consumers purchased a wind generation project under development, with capacity of up to 150 MW, in Gratiot County, Michigan. Consumers began on-site construction of this project during the fourth quarter of 2019 and expects that it will be complete and operational in 2020.

In June 2019, Consumers entered into an agreement to purchase a wind generation project under development in Hillsdale, Michigan, with capacity of up to 166 MW. Under the agreement, which the MPSC unconditionally approved in December 2019, Consumers expects to take full ownership and begin commercial operation of the project in 2020. Additionally, in September 2019, the MPSC approved a 20‑year agreement under which Consumers will purchase 100 MW of renewable capacity, energy, and RECs from a 149‑MW solar generating facility to be constructed in Calhoun County, Michigan. The facility is expected to be operational in 2021. These agreements resulted from a request for proposals that Consumers issued in June 2018 to acquire up to 400 MW of wind generation projects and up to 100 MW of solar generation projects in Michigan.

Electric Customer Deliveries and Revenue: Consumers’ electric customer deliveries are seasonal and largely dependent on Michigan’s economy. The consumption of electric energy typically increases in the summer months, due primarily to the use of air conditioners and other cooling equipment. In addition, Consumers’ electric rates, which follow a seasonal rate design, are higher in the summer months than in the remaining months of the year. Beginning in June 2020, electric residential customers will transition to a summer peak time-of-use rate that will allow them to take advantage of lower-cost energy during off-peak times during the summer months. Thus, customers could reduce their electric bills by shifting their consumption from on-peak to off-peak times. 

72
Consumers expects weather-normalized electric deliveries over the next five years to decrease slightly. This outlook reflects the effects of energy waste reduction programs and appliance efficiency standards offset largely by modest growth in electric demand. Actual delivery levels will depend on:

•energy conservation measures and results of energy waste reduction programs

•weather fluctuations

•Michigan’s economic conditions, including utilization, expansion, or contraction of manufacturing facilities, population trends, and housing activity

Electric ROA: Michigan law allows electric customers in Consumers’ service territory to buy electric generation service from alternative electric suppliers in an aggregate amount capped at ten percent, with certain exceptions. At December 31, 2019, electric deliveries under the ROA program were at the ten‑percent limit. Of Consumers’ 1.8 million electric customers, 285 customers, or 0.02 percent, purchased electric generation service under the ROA program.

The 2016 Energy Law established a path to ensure that forward capacity is secured for all electric customers in Michigan, including customers served by alternative electric suppliers under ROA. The new law also authorized the MPSC to ensure that alternative electric suppliers have procured enough capacity to cover their anticipated capacity requirements for the four-year forward period. In 2017, the MPSC issued an order establishing a state reliability mechanism for Consumers. Under this mechanism, beginning June 1, 2018, if an alternative electric supplier does not demonstrate that it has procured its capacity requirements for the four-year forward period, its customers will pay a set charge to the utility for capacity that is not provided by the alternative electric supplier. All alternative electric suppliers have demonstrated that they have procured their capacity requirements through the MISO planning year beginning June 1, 2022.

In June 2018, the MPSC issued an order requiring all electric suppliers to demonstrate that a portion of the capacity procured to serve customers during peak demand times is located in the MISO footprint in Michigan’s Lower Peninsula. In July 2018, the Michigan Court of Appeals issued a decision that the MPSC does not have statutory authority to implement such a requirement for alternative electric suppliers. Consumers believes the 2016 Energy Law does give such authorization to the MPSC. The MPSC and Consumers have filed applications for leave to appeal the Court of Appeals’ decision to the Michigan Supreme Court. In June 2019, the Michigan Supreme Court issued orders directing the filing of supplemental briefs and the scheduling of oral arguments in the case, and will ultimately decide whether to consider and rule on the appeals. Oral arguments occurred in November 2019, and the Michigan Supreme Court will issue an order on the application for leave to appeal.

Electric Rate Matters: Rate matters are critical to Consumers’ electric utility business. For additional details on rate matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Regulatory Matters.

PSCR Plan: Consumers submitted its 2020 PSCR plan to the MPSC in September 2019 and, in accordance with its proposed plan, self-implemented the 2020 PSCR charge beginning in January 2020.

Electric Environmental Outlook: Consumers’ operations are subject to various state and federal environmental laws and regulations. Consumers estimates that it will incur capital expenditures of $275 million from 2020 through 2024 to continue to comply with RCRA, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and numerous state and federal environmental regulations. Consumers expects to recover these costs in customer rates, but cannot guarantee this result. Consumers’ primary environmental compliance focus includes, but is not limited to, the following matters.

73
Air Quality: Multiple air quality regulations apply, or may apply, to Consumers.

CSAPR, which became effective in 2015, requires Michigan and many other states to improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that, according to EPA computer models, contribute to ground-level ozone and fine particle pollution in other downwind states. In 2016, the EPA finalized new ozone season standards for CSAPR, which became effective in 2017. Any litigation or remand to the EPA is not expected to impact Consumers’ compliance strategy, as Consumers expects its emissions to be within the CSAPR allowance allocations.

In 2012, the EPA published emission standards for electric generating units, known as MATS, based on Section 112 of the Clean Air Act. Under MATS, all of Consumers’ existing coal-fueled electric generating units were required to add additional controls for hazardous air pollutants. Consumers met the extended deadline of April 2016 for five coal-fueled units and two oil/gas-fueled units it continues to operate and retired its seven remaining coal-fueled units. MATS is presently being litigated. In addition, in December 2018, the EPA proposed changes to the supporting analysis used to justify MATS, but did not propose any changes to the MATS regulations. Any changes resulting from litigation or rulemaking are expected to be minor and should not impact Consumers’ MATS compliance strategy. If the MATS regulations were repealed, Consumers would then be required to comply with the Michigan Mercury Rule, which has similar requirements to MATS. In addition, Consumers must comply with its settlement agreement with the EPA entered into in 2014 concerning opacity and NSR, which has similar emission requirements to MATS.

In 2015, the EPA lowered the NAAQS for ozone. The new ozone NAAQS will make it more difficult to construct or modify power plants and other emission sources in areas of the country that have not met the new ozone standard. In April 2018, the EPA designated certain areas of Michigan as not meeting the new standard with an August 2018 effective date. None of Consumers’ fossil-fuel-fired generating units are located in these areas. Some of Consumers’ compressor stations are located in areas impacted by the rule, but Consumers expects only minor permitting impacts if those units are modified in the future. Consumers does not expect that any litigation involving NAAQS for ozone will have a material adverse impact on its generating assets.

Consumers’ strategy to comply with air quality regulations, including CSAPR, NAAQS, and MATS, as well as its legal obligations, involved the installation and operation of emission control equipment at some facilities and the suspension of operations at others; however, Consumers continues to evaluate these rules in conjunction with other EPA and EGLE rulemakings, litigation, and congressional action. This evaluation could result in:

•a change in Consumers’ fuel mix

•changes in the types of generating units Consumers may purchase or build in the future

•changes in how certain units are used

•the retirement, mothballing, or repowering with an alternative fuel of some of Consumers’ generating units

•changes in Consumers’ environmental compliance costs

Greenhouse Gases: There have been numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the state, regional, national, and international levels that involve the potential regulation of greenhouse gases. Consumers continues to monitor and comment on these initiatives and to follow litigation involving greenhouse gases.

In 2015, the EPA finalized new rules pursuant to Section 111(b) of the Clean Air Act to limit carbon dioxide emissions from new electric generating units, as well as modified or reconstructed electric 

74
generating units. New coal-fueled units would not be able to meet this limit without installing carbon dioxide control equipment using such methods as carbon capture and sequestration.

In December 2018, the EPA proposed a revised Section 111(b) regulation to replace the 2015 standard rule limiting carbon dioxide emissions from new electric generating units, citing limited availability and high costs of carbon capture and sequestration equipment as reasons to change the 2015 rule. The revised Section 111(b) regulation requires new coal-fueled generating units to meet a highly efficient steam cycle performance standard. Consumers does not expect this proposal to change its existing environmental strategy.

In June 2019, the EPA finalized the Affordable Clean Energy rule. The rule requires individual states to evaluate coal‑fueled power plants for heat‑rate improvements that could increase overall plant efficiency. The evaluations to be performed by the State of Michigan under the final rule may require Consumers to make heat-rate improvements at its remaining coal-fueled units beginning in the mid‑2020s. This rule is presently being litigated. Consumers cannot evaluate the potential impact of the rule until the State of Michigan completes its evaluations.

In 2015, a group of 195 countries, including the U.S., finalized the Paris Agreement, which governs carbon dioxide reduction measures beginning in 2020. Although the U.S. has begun the process of withdrawing from the Paris Agreement, it has stated a desire to renegotiate a new agreement in the future. At this time, Consumers does not expect any adverse changes to its environmental strategy as a result of these events.

While Consumers cannot predict the outcome of changes in U.S. policy or of other legislative or regulatory initiatives involving the potential regulation of greenhouse gases, it intends to continue to move forward with its Clean Energy Plan, its present carbon reduction goal, and its emphasis on supply diversity. Consumers will continue to monitor regulatory and legislative activity and related litigation regarding greenhouse gas emissions standards that may affect electric generating units.

Severe weather events and climate change associated with increasing levels of greenhouse gases could affect Consumers’ facilities and energy sales and could have a material impact on its future results of operations. Consumers is unable to predict these events or their financial impact; however, Consumers plans for adverse weather and takes steps to reduce its potential impact.

Litigation, international treaties, federal laws and regulations (including regulations by the EPA), and state laws and regulations, if enacted or ratified, could ultimately require Consumers to replace equipment, install additional emission control equipment, purchase emission allowances or credits, curtail operations, arrange for alternative sources of supply, mothball or retire facilities that generate certain emissions, pursue energy efficiency or demand response measures more swiftly, or take other steps to manage or lower the emission of greenhouse gases. Although associated capital or operating costs relating to greenhouse gas regulation or legislation could be material and cost recovery cannot be assured, Consumers expects to recover these costs and capital expenditures in rates consistent with the recovery of other reasonable costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations.

CCRs: In 2015, the EPA published a final rule regulating CCRs under RCRA. The final rule adopts minimum standards for beneficially reusing and disposing of non‑hazardous CCRs. The rule establishes new minimum requirements for site location, groundwater monitoring, flood protection, storm water design, fugitive dust control, and public disclosure of information, including any groundwater protection standard exceedances. The rule also sets out conditions under which CCR units would be forced to cease receiving CCR and non‑CCR wastewater and initiate closure based on the inability to achieve minimum safety standards, meet a location standard, or meet minimum groundwater standards. Consumers has aligned with EGLE on closure plans for each of its unlined ash ponds to ensure coordination between federal and state requirements. The unlined ash ponds have ceased operation and have been replaced with 

75
double-lined ash ponds or concrete tanks. Significant closure work has been completed at the remaining ash ponds.

Due to litigation, many aspects of the 2015 CCR rule have been remanded to the EPA, which has resulted in various new rulemakings. These new rulemakings are now in litigation. Continued litigation will add uncertainty around requirements for compliance and state permit programs.

Separately, Congress passed legislation in 2016 allowing participating states to develop permitting programs for CCRs under RCRA. In December 2018, the Michigan Legislature adopted a permitting program, which requires the EPA’s authorization. This program should reduce costly, duplicative oversight over CCRs and provide local oversight to CCR issues unique to Michigan. EGLE submitted the state CCR permit program application to Michigan’s Attorney General in June 2019 for review and signature. The Attorney General’s office is engaged in a detailed review of the program and application with EGLE. Federal rulemaking challenges may delay EPA approval of the Michigan permitting program.

Consumers has aligned with EGLE on closure plans for all of its coal ash disposal sites, including those subject to the EPA’s 2015 CCR rule, and adjusted its recorded ARO accordingly. Consumers has historically been authorized to recover in electric rates costs related to coal ash disposal sites.

Water: Multiple water-related regulations apply, or may apply, to Consumers.

The EPA regulates cooling water intake systems of existing electric generating plants under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act and the corresponding rules that were revised in 2014. The rules are aimed at reducing alleged harmful impacts on aquatic organisms, such as fish. In April 2018, Consumers submitted to EGLE for review and approval all required studies and recommended plans to comply with Section 316(b), but has not yet received final approval.

In 2015, the EPA released its final effluent limitation guidelines for steam electric generating plants. These guidelines, which are presently being litigated, set stringent new requirements for the discharge from electric generating units into wastewater streams. In 2017, the EPA announced that it will undertake a rulemaking to replace specific portions of the rule and proposed delaying the compliance start dates for two years, but maintained the compliance end dates. Additional rulemaking began in November 2019 and will continue in 2020. Consumers does not expect any adverse changes to its environmental strategy as a result of any revisions to the rule.

In recent years, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have proposed rules redefining “Waters of the United States,” which defines the scope of federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act, and other changes to the Clean Water Act regulations. For example, the EPA recently finalized a rule repealing the 2015 definition of “Waters of the United States” and, in January 2020, released a rule with its new definition. These rules are presently being, or are likely to be, litigated.

A final definition would change the scope of water and wetlands regulations under the Clean Water Act. The EPA has delegated authority to manage the Michigan wetlands program to EGLE for a large portion of Consumers’ service territory, but dual jurisdiction exists between the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in some locations in Michigan. As a result, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the EPA’s rules, Consumers expects to continue to operate under Michigan’s wetlands regulations, and under the applicable state and federal water jurisdictional regulations. Thus, Consumers does not expect any material adverse changes to its environmental strategy as a result of these events, but under an expanded federal definition, could experience permitting delays for infrastructure projects where dual jurisdiction exists.

76
Many of Consumers’ facilities maintain NPDES permits, which are renewed every five years and are vital to the facilities’ operations. Failure of EGLE to renew any NPDES permit, a successful appeal against a permit, a change in the interpretation or scope of NPDES permitting, or onerous terms contained in a permit could have a significant detrimental effect on the operations of a facility.

Other Matters: Other electric environmental matters could have a material impact on Consumers’ outlook. For additional details on other electric environmental matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments—Consumers Electric Utility Contingencies—Electric Environmental Matters.

Retention Incentive Program: In October 2019, Consumers announced a retention incentive program to ensure necessary staffing at the D.E. Karn generating complex through the anticipated retirement of the coal-fueled electric generating units. Based on the number of employees that have chosen to participate, the aggregate cost of the program through 2023 is estimated to be $35 million. Consumers expects to recognize $15 million of expense related to retention and severance benefits in 2020. Consumers will seek recovery of these costs from customers. For additional details on this program, see Note 22, Asset Sales and Exit Activities.

Consumers Gas Utility Outlook and Uncertainties

Gas Deliveries: Consumers’ gas customer deliveries are seasonal. The peak demand for natural gas typically occurs in the winter due to colder temperatures and the resulting use of natural gas as heating fuel. Consumers expects weather-normalized gas deliveries over the next five years to remain stable relative to 2019. This outlook reflects modest growth in gas demand offset by the predicted effects of energy efficiency and conservation. Actual delivery levels from year to year may vary from this expectation as a result of:

•weather fluctuations

•use by power producers

•availability and development of renewable energy sources

•gas price changes

•Michigan economic conditions, including population trends and housing activity

•the price of competing energy sources or fuels

•energy efficiency and conservation impacts

Gas Rate Matters: Rate matters are critical to Consumers’ gas utility business. For additional details on rate matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Regulatory Matters.

77
Gas Rate Case: In December 2019, Consumers filed an application with the MPSC seeking an annual rate increase of $245 million, based on a 10.5 percent authorized return on equity and a projected twelve-month period ending September 30, 2021. The filing requests authority to recover new infrastructure investment and related costs that will allow Consumers to improve system safety and reliability. Presented in the following table are the components of the requested increase in revenue:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The filing also seeks approval of a revenue decoupling mechanism that would annually reconcile Consumers’ actual weather-normalized non‑fuel revenues with the revenues approved by the MPSC. 

GCR Plan: Consumers submitted its 2020-2021 GCR plan to the MPSC in December 2019 and, in accordance with its proposed plan, expects to self-implement the 2020-2021 GCR charge beginning in April 2020.

Gas Pipeline and Storage Integrity and Safety: In October 2019, PHMSA published a final rule that expands federal safety standards for gas transmission pipelines. To comply with the rule, Consumers will incur increased capital costs to install and remediate pipelines as well as increased operating and maintenance costs to expand inspections, maintenance, and monitoring of its existing pipelines. The requirements in the regulation take effect July 1, 2020, with various implementation phases over numerous years.

In 2016, PHMSA published an interim final rule that established minimum federal safety standards for underground natural gas storage facilities. To comply with the interim rule, Consumers incurred increased capital and operating and maintenance costs to expand inspections, maintenance, and monitoring of its underground gas storage facilities. PHMSA expects to finalize additional requirements in early 2020.

Although associated capital or operating and maintenance costs relating to these regulations could be material and cost recovery cannot be assured, Consumers expects to recover such costs and capital expenditures in rates consistent with the recovery of other reasonable costs of complying with laws and regulations. Consumers will continue to monitor gas safety regulations and is implementing the American Petroleum Institute’s Recommended Practice 1173, Pipeline Safety Management Systems. This program ensures that there are policies, procedures, work instructions, forms, and records in place to streamline adoption and deployment of any existing or future regulations.

Gas Environmental Outlook: Consumers expects to incur response activity costs at a number of sites, including 23 former MGP sites. For additional details, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments—Consumers Gas Utility Contingencies—Gas Environmental Matters.

Greenhouse Gases: Consumers is making voluntary efforts to reduce its gas utility’s methane emissions. In October 2019, Consumers set a goal of net-zero methane emissions from its natural gas delivery system by 2030. Under its Methane Reduction Plan, Consumers plans to reduce methane emissions from its system by about 80 percent by accelerating the replacement of aging pipe, rehabilitating or retiring 

78
outdated infrastructure, and adopting new technologies and practices. The remaining emissions will be eliminated by purchasing and/or producing renewable natural gas. 

There is also increasing interest at the federal, state, and local levels involving potential regulation of greenhouse gases or its sources, which include methane emissions and carbon dioxide from Consumers’ gas utility. Such regulation, if adopted, may involve requirements to reduce methane emissions from natural gas use. No such measures apply to Consumers at this time. Consumers continues to monitor these initiatives and comment as appropriate. Consumers cannot predict the impact of any potential future legislation or regulation on its gas utility.

Consumers Electric Utility and Gas Utility Outlook and Uncertainties

Energy Waste Reduction Plan: The 2016 Energy Law authorized incentives for demand response programs and expanded existing incentives for energy efficiency programs, referring to the combined initiatives as energy waste reduction programs. The 2016 Energy Law:

•extended the requirement to achieve annual reductions of 1.0 percent in customers’ electricity use through 2021 and 0.75 percent in customers’ natural gas use indefinitely

•removed limits on investments under the program and provided for a higher return on those investments; together, these provisions effectively doubled the financial incentives Consumers may earn for exceeding the statutory targets

•established a goal of 35 percent combined renewable energy and energy waste reduction by 2025; Consumers has achieved 22 percent of the combined renewable energy and energy waste reduction goal through 2019 

Under its energy waste reduction plan, Consumers provides its customers with incentives to reduce usage by offering energy audits, rebates and discounts on purchases of highly efficient appliances, and other incentives and programs.

Enterprises Outlook and Uncertainties

CMS Energy’s primary focus with respect to its enterprises businesses is to maximize the value of generating assets, its share of which represents 1,234 MW of capacity, and to pursue opportunities for the development of renewable generation projects.

The enterprises segment’s assets may be affected by environmental laws and regulations. The new ozone NAAQS will make it more difficult to construct or modify power plants and other emission sources in areas of the country that have not met the new ozone standard. In April 2018, the EPA designated certain areas of Michigan as not meeting the new standard with an August 2018 effective date. The enterprises segment’s DIG plant located in Dearborn, Michigan is in one such area and, as a result, would be subject to additional permitting restrictions in the event of any future modifications. For additional details regarding the new ozone NAAQS, see Consumers Electric Utility Outlook and Uncertainties—Electric Environmental Outlook.

Trends, uncertainties, and other matters related to the enterprises segment that could have a material impact on CMS Energy’s consolidated income, cash flows, or financial position include:

•investment in and financial benefits received from renewable energy and energy storage projects

•changes in energy and capacity prices

•severe weather events and climate change associated with increasing levels of greenhouse gases

79
•changes in commodity prices and interest rates on certain derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting and must be marked to market through earnings

•changes in various environmental laws, regulations, principles, or practices, or in their interpretation

•the outcome of certain legal proceedings, including gas price reporting litigation

•indemnity and environmental remediation obligations at Bay Harbor, including an inability to renew an NPDES permit in 2020

•obligations related to a tax claim from the government of Equatorial Guinea

•representations, warranties, and indemnities provided by CMS Energy in connection with previous sales of assets

For additional details regarding the enterprises segment’s uncertainties, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments.

EnerBank Outlook and Uncertainties 

EnerBank is a Utah state-chartered, FDIC-insured industrial bank providing unsecured consumer installment loans, largely for financing home improvements. The carrying value of EnerBank’s loan portfolio was $2.5 billion at December 31, 2019. The 12-month rolling average net default rate on loans held by EnerBank was 1.2 percent at December 31, 2019. EnerBank expects lending growth of up to ten percent annually over the next five years.

EnerBank’s loan portfolio was funded primarily by certificates of deposit of $2.4 billion. CMS Energy is required both by law and by contract to provide financial support, including infusing additional capital, to ensure that EnerBank satisfies mandated capital requirements and has sufficient liquidity to operate. With its self-funding plan, EnerBank has exceeded these requirements historically and exceeded them as of December 31, 2019. For additional details regarding EnerBank’s loan portfolio, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 8, Notes Receivable.

Other Outlook and Uncertainties 

Employee Separation Program: In December 2019, CMS Energy and Consumers announced a voluntary separation program for non-union employees. Under the program, employees elected to request separation, and management decided which requests to accept. In January 2020, management communicated its decisions to affected employees, who will have 45 days to decide whether to separate. CMS Energy and Consumers estimate that they will recognize an after-tax charge of up to $10 million in 2020 related to the program. As a result of the program, however, CMS Energy and Consumers expect to benefit from future cost savings, as employee staffing levels will be better matched to workload demand, which reflects the companies’ ongoing workforce productivity improvements.

Litigation: CMS Energy, Consumers, and certain of their subsidiaries are named as parties in various litigation matters, as well as in administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental agencies, arising in the ordinary course of business. For additional details regarding these and other legal matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Regulatory Matters and Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments.

80
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The following information is important to understand CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ results of operations and financial condition. For additional accounting policies, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies.

In the preparation of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ consolidated financial statements, estimates and assumptions are used that may affect reported amounts and disclosures. CMS Energy and Consumers use accounting estimates for asset valuations, unbilled revenue, depreciation, amortization, financial and derivative instruments, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, the effects of regulation, indemnities, and contingencies. Actual results may differ from estimated results due to changes in the regulatory environment, regulatory decisions, lawsuits, competition, and other factors. CMS Energy and Consumers consider all relevant factors in making these assessments.

Accounting for the Effects of Industry Regulation: Because Consumers has regulated operations, it uses regulatory accounting to recognize the effects of the regulators’ decisions on its financial statements. Consumers continually assesses whether future recovery of its regulatory assets is probable by considering communications and experience with its regulators and changes in the regulatory environment. If Consumers determined that recovery of a regulatory asset were not probable, Consumers would be required to write off the asset and immediately recognize the expense in earnings.

Contingencies: CMS Energy and Consumers make judgments regarding the future outcome of various matters that give rise to contingent liabilities. For such matters, they record liabilities when they are considered probable and reasonably estimable, based on all available information. In particular, CMS Energy and Consumers are participating in various environmental remediation projects for which they have recorded liabilities. The recorded amounts represent estimates that may take into account such considerations as the number of sites, the anticipated scope, cost, and timing of remediation work, the available technology, applicable regulations, and the requirements of governmental authorities. For remediation projects in which the timing of estimated expenditures is considered reliably determinable, CMS Energy and Consumers record the liability at its net present value, using a discount rate equal to the interest rate on monetary assets that are essentially risk-free and have maturities comparable to that of the environmental liability. The amount recorded for any contingency may differ from actual costs incurred when the contingency is resolved. For additional details, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Contingencies and Commitments.

Derivative Instruments: CMS Energy and Consumers account for certain contracts as derivative instruments. If a contract is a derivative and does not qualify for the normal purchases and sales exception, it is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at its fair value. At CMS Energy, if the derivative is accounted for as a cash flow hedge, unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in AOCI and subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged transactions impact earnings. If the derivative is accounted for as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative and changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. For the FTRs at Consumers, changes in fair value are deferred as regulatory assets or liabilities.

The criteria used to determine if an instrument qualifies for derivative accounting or for an exception from derivative accounting are complex and often require judgment in application. Changes in business strategies or market conditions, as well as a requirement to apply different interpretations of the derivative accounting literature, could result in changes in accounting for a single contract or groups of contracts, which could have a material impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial statements. For 

81
additional details on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ derivatives and how the fair values of derivatives are determined, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 6, Fair Value Measurements.

Income Taxes: The amount of income taxes paid by CMS Energy is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities, which can result in proposed assessments. An estimate of the potential outcome of any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. CMS Energy believes adequate reserves have been provided for these exposures; however, future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. Additionally, CMS Energy’s judgment as to the ability to recover its deferred tax assets may change. CMS Energy believes the valuation allowances related to its deferred tax assets are adequate, but future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments. As a result, CMS Energy’s effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly over time. For additional details, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 14, Income Taxes.

Pension and OPEB: CMS Energy and Consumers provide retirement pension benefits to certain employees under non‑contributory DB Pension Plans, and they provide postretirement health and life benefits to qualifying retired employees under an OPEB Plan.

CMS Energy and Consumers record liabilities for pension and OPEB on their consolidated balance sheets at the present value of the future obligations, net of any plan assets. The calculation of the liabilities and associated expenses requires the expertise of actuaries, and requires many assumptions, including:

•life expectancies

•discount rates

•expected long-term rate of return on plan assets

•rate of compensation increases

•expected health care costs

A change in these assumptions could change significantly CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ recorded liabilities and associated expenses.

Presented in the following table are estimates of costs and cash contributions through 2022 for the DB Pension Plans and OPEB Plan. Actual future costs and contributions will depend on future investment performance, discount rates, and various factors related to the participants of the DB Pension Plans and OPEB Plan. CMS Energy and Consumers will, at a minimum, contribute to the plans as needed to comply with federal funding requirements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

82
1Contribution occurred in January 2020.

2 Consumers’ pension and OPEB costs are recoverable through its general ratemaking process.

Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on the assets of the DB Pension Plans by 25 basis points would increase estimated pension cost for 2020 by $6 million for both CMS Energy and Consumers. Lowering the PBO discount rates by 25 basis points would increase estimated pension cost for 2020 by $6 million for both CMS Energy and Consumers.

Pension and OPEB plan assets are accounted for and disclosed at fair value. Fair value measurements incorporate assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including assumptions about risk. Development of these assumptions may require judgment.

For additional details on postretirement benefits, including the fair value measurements for the assets of the DB Pension Plans and OPEB Plan, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12, Retirement Benefits.

Unbilled Revenues: Consumers’ customers are billed monthly in cycles having billing dates that do not generally coincide with the end of a calendar month. This results in customers having received electricity or natural gas that they have not been billed for as of the month-end. Consumers estimates its unbilled revenues by applying an average billed rate to total unbilled deliveries for each customer class. For additional information on unbilled revenues, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 16, Revenue.

New Accounting Standards

For details regarding new accounting standards issued but not yet effective, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2, New Accounting Standards.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk