PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

In this Form 10-K, unless the content otherwise dictates, "Conduent", the "Company", "we" or "our" mean Conduent Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Our Business

As one of the largest business process services companies in the world, Conduent delivers mission-critical services and solutions on behalf of businesses and governments – creating exceptional outcomes for our clients and the millions of people who count on them. Through people, process, expertise in transaction-intensive processing and technology such as analytics and automation, Conduent's services and solutions create value by improving efficiencies, reducing costs and enabling revenue growth. A majority of Fortune 100 companies and over 500 government entities depend on Conduent every day to manage their business processes and essential interactions with their end-users.

Conduent's commercial portfolio includes leading solutions in attractive markets such as end-user customer experience management, transaction processing services, commercial healthcare and human resource and learning services. For example, Conduent is a leading provider of medical bill review. In 2019, Conduent processed over 28 million medical bills and saved customers over $17 billion.

Conduent serves a vast range of the public sector including market leading transportation and government solutions. For example, Conduent’s systems support 11 million traveler transactions per day via electronic tolling and process over 40% of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) payments on behalf of government entities. 

We create value for our clients through efficient global service delivery combined with a personalized and seamless experience for the end-user. We apply our expertise, technology and innovation to continually modernize our offerings for improved customer and constituent satisfaction and loyalty, increased process efficiency and rapid response to changing market dynamics. 

Conduent Incorporated is a New York corporation, organized in 2016. Our common stock began trading on January 3, 2017, on the New York Stock Exchange, under the ticker "CNDT". In December 2019, Conduent changed the listing of its publicly traded common stock from the New York Stock Exchange to the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ), where it remains listed under the ticker "CNDT".

With approximately 67,000 employees globally as of December 31, 2019, we provide differentiated services to clients spanning medium and large businesses and governments around the world. 

In the third quarter of 2019, management and the Board of Directors jointly commenced a strategic and operational review of the Company and each line of business. Each of the lines of business were evaluated across multiple factors including competitive positioning, financial performance, investment needs, market scarcity and execution risk, among others. The Company’s transformation plan and perspective on allocating capital amongst its business units changed as a result of this review. 

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

3

Table of Contents 

Our Transformation

We continue to focus on transformation and optimization throughout the business. We have seen tremendous optimization from our real estate consolidation efforts. Going forward, we intend to transform the business through an intense focus on Growth, Quality, and Efficiency – utilizing a programmatic, project management approach. We are intent on hiring and organizing top-talent, instituting and instilling processes and investing in and upgrading our technology. We are using a deliberate process that identifies the biggest gaps and then prioritizes actions to ensure success. 

•Growth: In 2019, we hired a Chief Revenue Officer and re-organized our sales team. We centralized the sales executives from the business delivery operations. Previously, the sales and delivery organizations were co-mingled. We believe isolating sales executives to a single organization with a sole purpose of selling will enable the team to benefit from increased focus and shared sales knowledge transfer. Additionally, we simplified our go-to-market strategy to align our focus on solution-based selling. We are taking a very client-centric approach to strengthen our relationships, better understand our clients' businesses and proactively respond to or pre-empt our clients' needs. We are examining the entire “sales to service continuum” to improve our performance and have launched a client retention program. We are measuring success in “Growth” through revenue retention and new business signings, among other metrics.

•Quality: In 2019, we continued to improve processes and procedures to address our technology infrastructure and our client delivery. We hired new executive leadership in the technology organization and continued the consolidation process of our data centers. We are also establishing a new and a more centralized command center to boost proactive management and monitoring of infrastructure incidents. We believe these changes will provide stability and a streamlined delivery of services to our clients and their end-users. In addition to optimizing the quality and stability of our service delivery, we continue to invest to upgrade our solutions to enable exceptional outcomes for our clients and their end-users as we work to standardize the service delivery processes. We are measuring success in “Quality” by service level agreement performance, severity 1 outages, and client satisfaction.

•Efficiency: We continue to find ways to reduce costs via increased efficiencies. We are implementing standardized processes and a singular operating model across the business, which we believe will eliminate silos and improve our leadership across the company. We believe greater efficiencies will be driven through simplified, standardized processes and a motivated workforce. We continue to find efficiencies from the ongoing consolidation of our data centers and real estate footprint. We are making steady progress in reshaping our culture and are investing in associate engagement programs as well as improvements to our work environments across our global locations. We are measuring success in “Efficiency” by associate retention and adjusted earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) margin, among other metrics. 

Our Market Opportunity

We estimate our addressable market size in the global business process service industry at over $200 billion in 2019, according to third party industry reports, and we are a leader across several segments of this large, diverse and growing market. Providing business process services is complex and multi-faceted with services that span many industries.

Ongoing competitive pressures and increasing demand for further productivity gains have motivated businesses to outsource elements of their day-to-day operations to accelerate performance and innovation. As a result, our clients have become more focused on their core businesses and the range of outsourced activities has expanded greatly. Increasing globalization has also required many companies to optimize cost structures to retain competitiveness and business process services have become a key component of this strategy.

The ongoing shift to next-generation software and automation technologies is driving greater demand for, and expectation of, efficiency and personalization by the constituents and customers of the businesses and governments we serve. Addressing these business and operational challenges is necessary for business process services companies to capitalize on these trends. In addition, business process services have the potential to meaningfully enhance productivity for businesses and governments and satisfaction for their customers and constituents.

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

4

Table of Contents 

Segments

We organize, manage and report our businesses through three reportable segments (Commercial Industries, Government Services and Transportation), Other operations and Shared IT / Infrastructure & Corporate Costs.

Our Commercial Industries is our largest segment, with $2.4 billion in revenues in 2019, representing 53.4% of our total revenues. Across the Commercial Industries segment, we operate on our clients’ behalf to deliver mission-critical solutions and services to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and enable revenue growth for our clients and their consumers and employees.

Our Government Services segment revenue for 2019 was $1.3 billion, representing 28.3% of our total revenues. This segment provides government-centric business process services to U.S. federal, state and local governments for public assistance program administration, transaction processing and payment services. Our solutions in this segment help governments respond to changing rules for eligibility and increasing citizen expectations. 

Our Transportation segment revenue for 2019 was $0.8 billion, representing 17.5% of our total revenues. This segment provides systems and support, as well as revenue-generating services, to government clients in 25 countries. On behalf of government agencies and authorities in the transportation industry, we deliver mission-critical mobility and payment solutions that improve automation, interoperability and decision-making to streamline operations, increase revenue and reduce congestion while creating safer communities and seamless travel experiences for consumers.

Other represents our divestitures, our Student Loan business, which the Company exited in the third quarter of 2018. In 2019, Other accounted for $38 million or 0.8% of total revenues, which was mainly from the portfolio of select standalone customer care contracts sold in February 2019. Refer to Note 4 – Divestiture to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this sale.

Shared IT / Infrastructure & Corporate Costs includes both normal ongoing IT infrastructure costs and costs related to modernization of a significant portion of our infrastructure with new systems and processes and consolidation of our data centers as part of our transformation initiatives. It also includes costs related to corporate overhead functions and shared real estate costs. These costs are not allocated to the reportable segments. We expect that our transformation initiatives will provide greater strategic and operational flexibility and efficiency and better control of our systems and processes. There is a risk, however, that our modernization efforts and data center consolidations could materially and adversely disrupt our operations. Refer to Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors of this Form 10-K for additional information.

We present segment financial information in Note 3 – Segment Reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Our Service Offerings

Our portfolio of business process services includes a combination of industry-specific and cross-industry services. We have subject matter experts who are responsible for implementing each of these services, delivering service excellence to clients, ensuring best practices to improve cost competitiveness, innovating our next generation offerings and supporting worldwide sales.

Commercial Industries

Our solutions and services include end-user customer experience, transaction processing, commercial healthcare and human resource and learning services.

•End-User Customer Experience (EUCE)

◦We offer a range of services that help our clients support their end-users. This includes in-bound and out-bound call support for both simple and complex transactions, technical support and patient assistance. We also provide multi-channel communication support (both print and digital) across a range of industries.

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

5

Table of Contents 

•Transaction Processing Solutions (TP)

◦We help our clients improve communications with their customers and constituents, whether it is on paper, on-line or through other communication channels. By supporting our clients’ customer communication processes, we help our clients deliver a better experience to their customers and operate with improved efficiency and greater effectiveness.

◦We offer a broad array of flexible transaction processing services that include data entry, scanning, image processing, enrollment processing, claims processing, high volume offsite print and mail services and file indexing. Our multi-channel communication capabilities (including secure print, email, text and web) enable the delivery of personalized and targeted communications that are designed to elicit the desired response from customers or other end-users (e.g., on-time bill payment and increased marketing response rates). Our service offerings utilize both proprietary and commercially available third-party technologies, combined with our expertise, to ensure continued quality and innovation for our clients.

◦We also serve clients by managing their critical finance, accounting and procurement processes. Our services include general accounting and reporting, billing and accounts receivable and purchasing, accounts payable and expense management services. We also offer wholesale and retail lockbox services and process auto and mortgage loans in the United States. With a global, dedicated team, we manage the core, end-to-end process areas of finance, accounting and procurement for some of the world’s most recognized brands.

•Commercial Healthcare Services (CH)

◦On behalf of the healthcare industry, we deliver administration, clinical support and medical management solutions across the health ecosystem to reduce costs, increase compliance and enhance utilization, while improving health outcomes and experience for members and patients. Our solutions span: trials, sales, access, adherence and long-term differentiation solutions to pharmaceutical clients; case management, performance management and patient safety for hospital clients; medical bill review, care integration, subrogation and payment integrity solutions to managed care companies; and workers compensation medical bill review, mailroom/data capture and medical management services to claims payers and third-party administrators.

•Human Resource and Learning Services (HRL)

◦We help our clients support their employees at all stages of employment from initial on-boarding through retirement, as well as HSA administration. We offer clients a range of customized advisory, technology and administrative services that improve the ability of employees to manage their benefits, professional development and retirement planning.

◦We also provide clients with a simplified approach to help their employees manage their healthcare costs and accumulate wealth with tax-advantaged accounts. We consolidate administration of all health spending accounts onto one common platform, including HSA, Health Reimbursement Arrangements, Flexible Spending Accounts and Commuter and Dependent Care Accounts. By consolidating and integrating the management of health spending accounts, we help our clients improve benefit enrollment and account opening, consolidate customer service, simplify communications and streamline account funding and management. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 1 million active HSA accounts and $2.7 billion of assets under management within our HSA offering.

◦We are a provider of end-to-end learning services, designed to accelerate the productivity and development of our clients’ employees and extended work forces. Our global presence, superior innovation and expertise allow us to deliver performance-based learning services tailored to our clients’ unique strategic business goals. Our offerings include learning strategy and assessment, instructor management and learning administration.

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

6

Table of Contents 

Government Services

Our solutions and services include government health services, payment solutions, child support services, and labor workforce and general government solutions.

•Government Healthcare 

◦We provide medical management and fiscal agent care management services to Medicaid programs and federally-funded U.S. government healthcare programs in 23 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. Our services include a range of innovative solutions such as Medicaid management, provider services, Medicaid business intelligence, pharmacy benefits management, eligibility verification and case management solutions. Our case management solutions make it easy to process and access large volumes of digital data. This can be used to track public health metrics (such as diseases, vitals, and birth defects), perform electronic visit verification, and more. These services help states optimize their costs by streamlining access to care and improve patient health outcomes through population health management, while helping families in need, by improving beneficiary support.

•Payment Solutions

◦With more than $80 billion disbursed annually, we are a leader in government payment disbursements for federally sponsored programs like SNAP, commonly known as food stamps and Women, Infant and Children (WIC) as well as government-initiated cash disbursements such as child support and unemployment. Conduent delivers electronic payments for government services in 33 states, including 106 prepaid debit card programs, 26 Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) programs, 13 EBT for WIC programs and 7 Electronic Child Care programs. As part of our payment solutions, we are also a preferred partner to child support enforcement agencies nationwide, we deliver innovative services and solutions to help agencies reduce costs and improve processes.

•State and Local

◦Child Support Services: As a preferred partner to child support enforcement agencies nationwide, we deliver innovative services and solutions to help agencies reduce costs and improve processes. We offer a broad set of child support services, including processing and distributing State Disbursement Units (SDUs), Child support payment cards, child care credentialing and case management, among others, to help states comply with federal standards.

◦Labor, Workforce and Government Solutions: We help agencies streamline onerous, paper-based tasks by turning them into efficient, digital processes. We offer unemployment insurance, workers compensation, parks and recreation, utilities and information technology solutions (such as cloud, hosting, maintenance and operations) to all the 50 U.S. states.

•Federal

◦As a preferred partner to government IT clients, we leverage technology as a key mechanism for improving citizen service and cost savings. Our solutions include: technology infrastructure, application portfolio management, IT consulting, and other IT managed services.

Transportation

On behalf of government agencies and authorities in the transportation industry, we deliver fare collection, violation management, notification, mobility and payment solutions that improve automation, interoperability and decision-making to streamline operations, increase revenue and reduce congestion while creating safer communities and seamless travel experiences for consumers. Our solutions span tolling, transit, photo and parking and commercial vehicle. 

•Tolling

◦Our electronic tolling, urban congestion management and mileage-based user solutions help clients keep up with an ever-changing environment and get more travelers where they need to go while generating revenue for much-needed infrastructure improvements. Our solutions include vehicle passenger detection systems, electronic toll collection, automated license plate recognition and congestion management solutions. 

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

7

Table of Contents 

•Transit

◦For today’s travelers, we aim to make journeys more personalized and convenient while increasing capacity and profitability for authorities and agencies. We combine the latest in fare collection, intelligent mobility so that clients can get the added efficiency of having a single point of contact for all their transit solutions.

•Photo and Parking

◦Curbside Management: We deliver intelligent curbside management systems that simplify parking programs and deliver convenient and hassle-free experience for drivers. Our curbside solutions include citation and permit administration, parking enforcement, and curbside demand management. We collect over $850 million annually for citations and delinquent revenue collections. 

◦Public Safety: Public safety is a priority in every community, especially as budgets shrink and populations grow. We provide data analytics, automated photo enforcement and other public safety solutions to make streets and communities safer. One in every four US public safety enforcement systems are implemented by Conduent Transportation. 

•Commercial vehicle

◦We provide computer-aided dispatch/automatic vehicle location technology to help customers manage their fleet operations.

Our Strategies

We intend to drive portfolio focus, operating discipline, sales and delivery excellence and innovation, complemented by tightly aligned investments to achieve this mission and purpose. Our strategy is designed to deliver value by delivering profitable growth, expanding operating margins and deploying a disciplined capital allocation strategy. Our differentiated services and solutions improve experiences for millions of people every day.

Specific elements of our strategy include the following:

Portfolio Focus – The industries in which we operate have attractive revenue growth rates, generally in the mid-single digits. We intend to sharpen our focus and expand our business in industries with strong growth and profitability characteristics. We will aim to employ a disciplined approach to portfolio management to complement our competitive strengths and build depth and breadth in our core businesses. Within the Healthcare industry, we leverage our data analytics, differentiated service offerings and industry know-how to continue to service payer, provider and core government healthcare clients. Within the Transportation industry, we leverage our global, end-to-end platforms to continue to deliver seamless travel experiences while providing back-end transaction processing and call center services for government clients globally. Within the Government industry, we leverage our relationships with 41 different states and various government agencies to streamline operations and improve the citizen experience. 

Operating Discipline – We continue to invest in our people, processes, and technology to optimize and strengthen our services capabilities. We plan to optimize our services capabilities and strengthen several core areas, including TP and finance and accounting services by building out our services offerings and continuing to improve our competitive strengths. We have divested non-core assets, refocused our business towards higher margin growing segments and consolidated delivery operations to enable greater productivity. Within TP, we continue to build industry-specific service offerings and advance inbound and outbound processing capabilities. Within EUCE, we capitalize on our global scale, cost efficiencies and our ability to provide seamless communications between our clients and their end-users through traditional (e.g., voice) and digital (e.g., web, mobile and Internet of Things) channels. Conduent’s solutions deliver exceptional outcomes for its clients, including: 

•$17 billion in medical bill savings, 

•$11 billion in child support payments processed more efficiently,

•up to 40% efficiency increase in HR operations, and 

•up to 40% improvement in processing costs, while driving higher end-user satisfaction.

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

8

Table of Contents 

Sales and Delivery Excellence – We look for the opportunity to exceed expectations and strive to be the best at what we do. Our clients are at the forefront of everything we do. We do our best to make things simple both in the solutions we design and the way we do business. We engage, develop and support our people. We intend to increasingly develop our employees by investing in training, processes and systems to equip them with modern tools that enable them to perform their jobs more efficiently. Furthermore, we plan to strengthen our sales teams through improved and optimized coverage and effective talent management. In 2019, we centralized our sales organization to report under a single Chief Revenue Officer and are investing in providing leadership and coaching to our sales team. The dedication and expertise of our employees have resulted in Conduent serving a majority of Fortune 100 companies, including:

•9 of top 10 health insurers,

•8 of 10 pharma companies,

•6 of top 10 automakers, and

•8 of top 10 U.S. banks.

Innovation complemented by tightly aligned investments – We are thinking about how we invest into the business differently than before. We intend to be disciplined in how we allocate capital and what our investments will fund. We have designated our businesses into three categories, each with a different approach to growing the business. 

•Category 1- “Optimize”: The businesses where we will drive optimization are generally areas of significant scale and where we believe that with process optimization, automation, and an investment into the current offerings, we can improve the end-user experience, reduce our cost of delivery, expand our margins, and thus capture additional “share”. We have identified EUCE, TP, Government Services (State, Local and Federal and Payment solutions) as businesses that fit into this category.

•Category 2- “Enhance”: These are businesses where we see the potential to enhance our solutions and market share with modest investment. These tend to have strong client relationships and a long history of servicing the markets we operate in, but legacy technology that needs to be refreshed or modernized. We have identified Government Healthcare services and HRL services as businesses that fit into this category.

•Category 3- “Expand”: These are businesses where we believe opportunities to expand our capabilities may require more meaningful investment, but we see the payback as more significant than the other businesses. These businesses, augmented with new capabilities, perhaps supplemented by modest acquisitions, will address market dynamics and provide additional growth opportunities. We have identified Commercial Healthcare and Transportation as businesses that fit into this category.

Our Competitive Strengths

We possess certain competitive strengths that distinguish us from our competitors, including:

Leadership in attractive growth markets – We are a large player in business process services delivering exceptional outcomes for our clients at an unparalleled scale. Our clients continue to outsource key business processes to improve efficiencies and to accelerate performance and digital transformation. Additionally, clients are moving beyond services for back-office functions in order to drive customer satisfaction and loyalty. The increase in globalization and cost competition continues to accelerate, forcing companies to seek ways to stay ahead of the competition. These factors, along with clients and their customers demanding more personalized, seamless and secure solutions, are collectively driving the ongoing shift to next-generation solutions and services. Through our portfolio of services and solutions, we have reached significant scale in our interactions including:

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

9

Table of Contents 

•Healthcare – U.S. healthcare spending is expected to rise from the 17.9% of GDP in 2017 to 19.4% of GDP by 2027and is projected to grow at an average rate of 5.5% per year for 2018-2027. As one of the most regulated industries, healthcare providers must balance increased utilization with heightened complexity and new financial pressures such as government budget challenges to significantly reduce reimbursements, reimbursement penalties for hospital readmissions and a shift from fee-for-service to “value-based” population health management. We are widely recognized by industry analysts as a leader in healthcare payer operations, serving 9 of the top 10 U.S. managed healthcare plans and providing administrative and care management solutions to Medicaid programs and federally funded U.S. government healthcare programs in 23 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. Two out of every three U.S. insured patients are touched by Conduent. Conduent’s healthcare capabilities have been recognized by NelsonHall, HfS Research and Everest Group.

•Transportation – Traffic congestion continues to increase as urbanization and changing demographics take hold globally. As a result, optimized transportation systems are becoming critical to increase efficiency while maintaining strict safety requirements. Electronic toll collection, public transit and parking all represent key growth drivers as governments at all levels increasingly focus on transportation infrastructure. We are an award-winning innovator in parking management. 46% of U.S. toll services are managed by Conduent and 11 million traveler transactions go through Conduent transportation toll systems daily. 

•Transaction Processing – We provide high volume print and mail services, enrollment processing and personalized and targeted marketing and communications to large corporations and are a leading provider in this market with more than 3.6 billion documents captured, indexed and classified annually. We process 89 million invoices annually for our Finance, Accounting and Procurement clients. 

Global delivery expertise – Our scale and global delivery network enables us to deliver our proprietary technology, differentiated service offerings and service capabilities expertly to clients around the world. We have operations in 23 countries including India, Philippines, Jamaica, Guatemala, Mexico, Romania, Dominican Republic and several locations within the United States, giving our customers the option for "onshore", "nearshore" or "offshore" outsourced business process services. This global delivery model enables us to leverage lower-cost production locations, consistent methodologies and processes, time zone advantages and business continuity plans. As of December 31, 2019, 51% of our employees were located in high cost countries and 49% were located in low cost countries.

Differentiated suite of multi-industry service offerings at scale – We manage transaction-intensive processes and work directly with end-users to meet their needs often in real-time. We are unique in our ability to offer our clients these business process services on a large scale and with high quality. Additionally, we are able to leverage our cross-industry services to bring the same scale and quality to our portfolio of industry-specific service offerings, such as healthcare claims management, employee benefits management and public transit fare collection.

Recurring revenue model supported by a loyal, diverse client base – We have a broad and diverse base of clients in countries across geographies and industries, including a majority of the Fortune 100 as well as Fortune 1,000 companies and midsize businesses and governmental entities. Our close client relationships and successful client execution support our stable recurring revenue model and high renewal rates. Excluding our strategic decision not to renew certain contracts and the impact of divestitures, renewal rates for 2019 and 2018 were 81% and 95%, respectively.

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

10

Table of Contents 

Competition

Although we encounter competition in all areas of our portfolio, we lead across certain areas of our principal businesses. We compete on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, reputation and customer service and support. In the current political environment in the U.S. and other territories, we also consider our "onshore" delivery capacity to be a competitive advantage. We participate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, driven by changes in industry standards and demands of customers to become more efficient. Our competitors range from large international companies to relatively small firms. Our competitors include:

•Large multinational service providers such as CGI Group, Accenture, Aon Hewitt, Cognizant, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, Fidelity Information Systems, Bank of America, IBM, Teletech and Teleperformance;

•Traditional Business Process Outsourcing companies such as Genpact, ELX Services, Exela Technologies and WNS Global Services;

•Payroll processing and human capital management providers such as ADP and Paychex;

•Healthcare-focused IT and service solutions providers such as Cerner and Maximus;

•Human resource services providers such as Alight and Willis Towers Watson;

•Health Savings Account administrators such as Health Equity, HSA Bank, and WexHealth;

•U.S. Federal focused government services such as CACI International and DXC Technology;

•Transportation multi-nationals such as Roper/TransCore, Cubic, Kapsch and Verra Mobility; and

•Smaller niche business processing service providers and in-house departments that perform functions that could be outsourced to us.

Sales and Marketing

We market our business process services to both potential and existing clients through our worldwide sales force and our business development team. Additionally, we have dedicated “solution architects” who work with clients to better understand their business requirements and to develop custom-tailored solutions to meet their unique needs.

Our sales and marketing strategy is to go to market by solutions to deliver key industry-specific and cross-industry

services and solutions to our clients. We focus on developing new prospects through market research and analysis, demand generation, renewing expiring contracts and leveraging existing client relationships to offer additional services. We leverage our broad, cross-industry service offerings to package solutions through enterprise selling, while maintaining a disciplined approach to pricing and contracting. Our sales efforts typically involve extended selling cycles and our deep domain and industry expertise is critical to winning new business.

Intellectual Property

Our general policy is to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. We own approximately 1,030 patents and pending applications. Our patent portfolio evolves as new patents are awarded to us and as older patents expire. These patents expire at various dates, generally 20 years from their original filing dates. While we believe that our portfolio of patents and applications has value, in general, no single patent is essential to our business or any individual segment. In addition, any of our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide significant competitive advantages. 

Our business relies on software provided to an approximately equal extent, by both internal development and external sourcing to deliver our services. With respect to internally developed software, we claim copyright on all such software, registering works which may be accessible to third parties. In addition, we rely on maintaining source code confidentiality to assure our market competitiveness. With respect to externally sourced software, we rely on contracts assuring our continued access for our business usage.

In the United States, we own 76 trademarks, which are either registered or applied for, reflecting the many businesses we participate in. These trademarks may have a perpetual life, subject to renewal every 10 years and may be subject to cancellation or invalidation based on certain use requirements and third party challenges, or on other grounds. We vigorously enforce and protect our trademarks.

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

11

Table of Contents 

People and Culture

We draw on the skills, expertise, and experience of our talented and diverse global workforce to deliver mission-critical services and solutions that drive exceptional client outcomes. We have 67,000 associates in 23 countries working towards a common vision and purpose, with 44% located in North America and the remainder located primarily in our delivery centers in India, Philippines, Jamaica, Guatemala and Mexico.

We believe an engaged and motivated workforce is our most important asset, which is why we are focused on building a workplace where our people can do their best work, feel empowered to innovate and put forth new ideas and solutions and have the tools and resources they need to be successful. We take pride in our ‘One Conduent’ culture, which is underpinned by our core values and leadership and teamwork principles. We place a strong emphasis on teamwork and shared success – and we amplify this unity across our associate base through several programs, including employee volunteerism, diversity and inclusion programs and continuous, open and transparent two-way communication.

Corporate Ethics

We operate according to our ethics and compliance program, which is designed to meet general governance and specific industry and regulatory requirements with a focus on values, culture and performance with integrity. Conduent has a business ethics program, which is overseen by the business ethics office, and a code of business conduct (Code), which serves as the foundation of our business ethics program. The Code sets forth our expectations for ethical leadership, performance of job responsibilities and compliance with company policies and the law. In addition, the Code embodies and reinforces Conduent’s commitment to integrity and helps employees resolve ethics and compliance concerns consistent with operating principles and legal and policy controls. In addition, our employees are required to complete business ethics training annually and we periodically solicit their input to gauge the state of Conduent’s ethical culture and help identify areas for improvement.

Our directors must act in accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board; our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, among others, must act in accordance with our Finance Code of Conduct; and all of our executives and employees must act in accordance with our Code of Business Conduct. Each of these codes of conduct can be accessed through our website at www.conduent.com/corporate-governance. They are also available to any shareholder who requests them in writing addressed to Conduent Incorporated, 100 Campus Drive Suite 200, Florham Park, NJ 07932, Attention: Corporate Secretary. We will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for members of the Board and, our Code of Business Conduct and our Finance Code of Conduct for our officers on our website as promptly as practicable, and consistent with the requirements of applicable U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and NASDAQ rules.

Seasonality

Our revenues can be affected by various factors such as our clients’ demand pattern for our services, which includes peak windows for benefit enrollment and new product launch by clients.

Availability of Company Information

Our internet address is www.conduent.com. In the Investor Information section of our Internet website, you will find our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our Proxy Statements and any amendments to these reports and statements. We make these documents available as soon as we can after we have filed them with, or furnished them to, the SEC free of charge.

The SEC maintains an internet address (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-K is nor incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K unless expressly noted.

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

12

Table of Contents 

Information about our Executive Officers

The following is a list of the executive officers of Conduent as of February 26, 2020, their current ages, their present positions and the year appointed to their present positions. 

Each officer is elected to hold office until the meeting of the Board of Directors held on the day of the next annual meeting of shareholders, subject to the provisions of the by-laws.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________________ 

*Member of Conduent Board of Directors 

Each of the officers named above has been an officer or an executive of Conduent or its subsidiaries for less than five years. 

Mr. Skelton was appointed Chief Operating Officer of Conduent in June 2019 and Chief Executive Officer of Conduent in August 2019. He served as President of Fiserv Output Solutions from March 2017 to June 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Skelton was the Group President and Chief Information Officer at Fiserv from April 2012 until March 2017. Mr. Skelton also held a variety of leadership roles at companies such as Ally Financial (formerly General Motors Acceptance Corporation) and Bank of America. Mr. Skelton is a former Navy fighter pilot and served in the Navy for over 20 years. 

Mr. Webb-Walsh served as the Chief Financial Officer of Xerox Services since January 2016. Prior to this, Mr. Webb-Walsh was Senior Vice President of Finance for the Government Healthcare Group and the Platform Development and Systems Integration Group of Xerox Services. Mr. Webb-Walsh joined Xerox Corporation in 1997 and has held a variety of leadership positions.

Mr. Pompeo previously served as Chief Audit Executive of Conduent since 2017 and was appointed Chief Accounting Officer of Conduent in June 2019. Prior to joining Conduent, Mr. Pompeo was a partner and the National Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Advisory Services Leader at CohnReznick, LLP from 2015 – 2017 and served as Senior Vice President – Finance & CFO of Stuart Weitzman, Inc. from 2013 – 2015. He began his accounting career in the Assurance and Business Advisory Practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP.

Mr. Michael Krawitz served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since November 2019. Prior to joining Conduent, from June 2015 to November, 2019, Mr. Krawitz was Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of insurance services firm York Risk Services Group, a portfolio company of Onex Corp. From 2014 to 2015, he was Chief Legal Officer of Veriteq Corp., a biotech company. From 1999 to 2014, Mr. Krawitz held leadership roles in public and private companies in technology and finance sectors. Mr. Krawitz began his career at Fried Frank and was educated at Cornell University and Harvard Law School.

Mr. Brewer joined Conduent as Executive Vice President & President – Public Sector in June 2019. Prior to joining Conduent, he served as Senior Vice President and Managing Director of Diebold Nixdorf from 2018 to 2019. Prior to that Mr. Brewer was Global Vice President for DXC’s Technology, Enterprise Application and Cloud Businesses from 2016 to 2018. He also held a variety of Senior Executive leadership roles at IBM Corporation for over 20 years, in Europe, Asia and the Americas. Mr. Brewer has served as a member of several boards of global companies, including IBM Australia and Softlayer, and has advised clients and boards around the world on changes that will fundamentally transform their businesses. 

CNDT 2019 Annual Report

13

Table of Contents 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS