PART I

Item 1.Business

This combined Form 10-K is filed separately by three registrants: CenterPoint Energy, Inc., CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC and CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant is filed by such registrant solely on its own behalf. Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating exclusively to the other registrants. Except as discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, no registrant has an obligation in respect of any other registrant’s debt securities, and holders of such debt securities should not consider the financial resources or results of operations of any registrant other than the obligor in making a decision with respect to such securities. 

The discussion of CenterPoint Energy’s consolidated financial information includes the financial results of Houston Electric and CERC, which, along with CenterPoint Energy, are collectively referred to as the Registrants. Where appropriate, information relating to a specific registrant has been segregated and labeled as such. Unless the context indicates otherwise, specific references to Houston Electric and CERC also pertain to CenterPoint Energy. In this Form 10-K, the terms “our,” “we” and “us” are used as abbreviated references to CenterPoint Energy, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries.

OUR BUSINESS

Overview

CenterPoint Energy is a public utility holding company and owns interests in Enable. CenterPoint Energy’s operating subsidiaries own and operate electric transmission and distribution, electric generation and natural gas distribution facilities, supply natural gas to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities and provide underground pipeline construction and repair services, energy performance contracting and sustainable infrastructure services.

Houston Electric is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy that provides electric transmission and distribution services to REPs serving the Texas Gulf Coast area that includes the city of Houston. 

CERC Corp. is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy with operating subsidiaries that own and operate natural gas distribution facilities in six states and supply natural gas to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities in over 30 states.

CenterPoint Energy’s simplified corporate structure as of December 31, 2019 is shown below:

(1)Houston Electric engages in the electric transmission and distribution business in the Texas Gulf Coast area that includes the city of Houston. 

(2)Bond Companies are wholly-owned, bankruptcy remote entities formed solely for the purpose of purchasing and owning transition or system restoration property through the issuance of Securitization Bonds.

1

(3)CERC’s NGD operates natural gas distribution systems in six states.

(4)CES obtains and offers competitive variable and fixed-price physical natural gas supplies and services primarily to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities in over 30 states.

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(6)Vectren engages in regulated operations through three public utilities: 

•Indiana Gas provides energy delivery services to natural gas customers located in central and southern Indiana;

•SIGECO provides energy delivery services to electric and natural gas customers and owns and operates electric generation assets to serve its electric customers and optimizes those assets in the wholesale power market; and 

•VEDO provides energy delivery services to natural gas customers in west-central Ohio. 

Vectren performs non-utility activities through Infrastructure Services, which provides underground pipeline construction and repair services, and through ESG, which provides energy performance contracting and sustainable infrastructure services.

On February 3, 2020, CenterPoint Energy, through its subsidiary VUSI, entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement to sell the businesses within its Infrastructure Services reportable segment. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020. For further information, see Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

Additionally, on February 24, 2020, CenterPoint Energy, through its subsidiary CERC Corp., entered into the Equity Purchase Agreement to sell CES, which represents substantially all of the businesses within the Energy Services reportable segment. This transaction does not include CEIP and its assets. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020. For further information, see Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

CenterPoint Energy’s service territories as of December 31, 2019 are depicted below:

2

As of December 31, 2019, reportable segments by Registrant are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For a discussion of operating income by segment, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations by Reportable Segment” in Item 7 of Part II of this report. For additional information about the segments, see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we consider the acquisition or the disposition of assets or businesses. 

The Registrants’ principal executive offices are located at 1111 Louisiana, Houston, Texas 77002 (telephone number: 713-207-1111).

We make available free of charge on our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, we make available free of charge on our Internet website:

•our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers;

•our Ethics and Compliance Code;

•our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and

•the charters of the audit, compensation, finance and governance committees of our Board of Directors.

Any shareholder who so requests may obtain a printed copy of any of these documents from us. Changes in or waivers of our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and waivers of our Ethics and Compliance Code for directors or executive officers will be posted on our Internet website within five business days of such change or waiver and maintained for at least 12 months or timely reported on Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. 

Our website address is www.centerpointenergy.com. Investors should also note that we announce material financial information in SEC filings, press releases and public conference calls. Based on guidance from the SEC, we may use the investor relations section of our website to communicate with our investors. It is possible that the financial and other information posted there could be deemed to be material information. Except to the extent explicitly stated herein, documents and information on our website are not incorporated by reference herein.

Houston Electric T&D (CenterPoint Energy and Houston Electric)

Houston Electric is a transmission and distribution electric utility that operates wholly within the state of Texas and is a member of ERCOT. ERCOT serves as the independent system operator and regional reliability coordinator for member electric power systems in most of Texas. The ERCOT market represents approximately 90% of the demand for power in Texas and is one of the nation’s largest power markets. The ERCOT market operates under the reliability standards developed by the NERC, approved by the FERC and monitored and enforced by the Texas RE. The PUCT has primary jurisdiction over the ERCOT market to ensure the adequacy and reliability of electricity supply across the state’s main interconnected power transmission grid. Houston Electric does not make direct retail or wholesale sales of electric energy or own or operate any electric generating facilities. 

Electric Transmission

On behalf of REPs, Houston Electric delivers electricity from power plants to substations, from one substation to another and to retail electric customers taking power at or above 69 kV in locations throughout Houston Electric’s certificated service territory. Houston Electric constructs and maintains transmission facilities and provides transmission services under tariffs approved by the PUCT.

3

The ERCOT ISO is responsible for operating the bulk electric power supply system in the ERCOT market. Houston Electric’s transmission business, along with those of other owners of transmission facilities in Texas, supports the operation of the ERCOT ISO. Houston Electric participates with the ERCOT ISO and other ERCOT utilities to plan, design, obtain regulatory approval for and construct new transmission lines necessary to increase bulk power transfer capability and to remove existing constraints on the ERCOT transmission grid.

Electric Distribution

In ERCOT, end users purchase their electricity directly from certificated REPs. Houston Electric’s distribution network receives electricity from the transmission grid through power distribution substations and delivers electricity for REPs in its certificated service area by carrying lower-voltage power from the substation to the retail electric customer through distribution feeders. Houston Electric’s operations include construction and maintenance of distribution facilities, metering services, outage response services and call center operations. Houston Electric provides distribution services under tariffs approved by the PUCT. PUCT rules and market protocols govern the commercial operations of distribution companies and other market participants. Rates for these existing services are established pursuant to rate proceedings conducted before municipalities that have original jurisdiction and the PUCT.

Bond Companies 

Houston Electric has special purpose subsidiaries consisting of the Bond Companies, which it consolidates. These consolidated special purpose subsidiaries are wholly-owned, bankruptcy remote entities that were formed solely for the purpose of purchasing and owning transition or system restoration property through the issuance of Securitization Bonds, and conducting activities incidental thereto. The Securitization Bonds are repaid through charges imposed on customers in Houston Electric’s service territory. For further discussion of the Securitization Bonds and the outstanding balances as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.

Customers

Houston Electric serves nearly all of the Houston/Galveston metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2019, Houston Electric’s customers consisted of approximately 68 REPs, which sell electricity to approximately 2.5 million metered customers in Houston Electric’s certificated service area, and municipalities, electric cooperatives and other distribution companies located outside Houston Electric’s certificated service area. Each REP is licensed by, and must meet minimum creditworthiness criteria established by, the PUCT. Houston Electric does not have long-term contracts with any of its customers. It operates using a continuous billing cycle, with meter readings being conducted and invoices being distributed to REPs each business day. For information regarding Houston Electric’s major customers, see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. The table below reflects the number of metered customers in Houston Electric’s service area as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Utility Technology

Houston Electric’s Smart Grid is comprised of the AMS, IG, ADMS and private telecommunications network. Houston Electric has deployed fully operational advanced meters to virtually all of its approximately 2.5 million metered customers, automated 95 substations, installed 1,603 IG Switching Devices and other automation devices on more than 450 circuits, built a wireless radio frequency mesh telecommunications network across Houston Electric’s 5,000-square mile footprint, and enabled real-time grid monitoring and control, which leverages information from smart meters and field sensors to manage system events through the ADMS. The Smart Grid continues to improve electric distribution service reliability and restoration, enhance the consumer experience, support the growth of renewable energy and help the environment by reducing carbon emissions. 

In addition, Houston Electric has implemented leading capabilities with customer service applications and mobile data applications including the PAS. The PAS notification tool alerts over 1.2 million registered customers of power delivery events at or near their home or facility via text, email or phone call. 

4

Competition

There are no other electric transmission and distribution utilities in Houston Electric’s service area. For another provider of transmission and distribution services to provide such services in Houston Electric’s territory, it would be required to obtain a certificate of convenience and necessity from the PUCT and, depending on the location of the facilities, may also be required to obtain franchises from one or more municipalities. Houston Electric is not aware of any other party intending to enter this business in its service area at this time. Distributed generation (i.e., power generation located at or near the point of consumption) could result in a reduction of demand for Houston Electric’s distribution services but has not been a significant factor to date.

Seasonality

Houston Electric’s revenues are primarily derived from rates that it collects from each REP based on the amount of electricity it delivers on behalf of that REP. Houston Electric’s revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity usage, with revenues generally being higher during the warmer months when more electricity is used for cooling purposes.

Properties

All of Houston Electric’s properties are located in Texas. Its properties consist primarily of high-voltage electric transmission lines and poles, distribution lines, substations, service centers, service wires, telecommunications network and meters. Most of Houston Electric’s transmission and distribution lines have been constructed over lands of others pursuant to easements or along public highways and streets under franchise agreements and as permitted by law.

All real and tangible properties of Houston Electric, subject to certain exclusions, are currently subject to:

•the lien of a Mortgage and Deed of Trust (the Mortgage) dated November 1, 1944, as supplemented; and

•the lien of a General Mortgage (the General Mortgage) dated October 10, 2002, as supplemented, which is junior to the lien of the Mortgage.

For information related to debt outstanding under the Mortgage and General Mortgage, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.

Electric Lines - Transmission and Distribution. As of December 31, 2019, Houston Electric owned and operated the following electric transmission and distribution lines:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Substations. As of December 31, 2019, Houston Electric owned 236 major substation sites having a total installed rated transformer capacity of 68,053 Mva.

Service Centers. As of December 31, 2019, Houston Electric operated 15 regional service centers located on a total of 345 acres of land. These service centers consist of office buildings, warehouses and repair facilities that are used in the business of transmitting and distributing electricity.

Franchises

Houston Electric holds non-exclusive franchises from certain incorporated municipalities in its service territory. In exchange for the payment of fees, these franchises give Houston Electric the right to use the streets and public rights-of-way of these municipalities to construct, operate and maintain its transmission and distribution system and to use that system to conduct its 

5

electric delivery business and for other purposes that the franchises permit. The terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from 20 to 40 years.

Indiana Electric Integrated (CenterPoint Energy)

Upon consummation of the Merger, CenterPoint Energy added Indiana Electric Integrated as a new reportable segment. Indiana Electric Integrated consists of SIGECO’s electric transmission and distribution services, including its power generating and wholesale power operations. As of December 31, 2019, Indiana Electric supplied electric service to the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

System Load

Total load and the related reserve margin at the time of the system summer peak on September 12, 2019, is presented below in MW, except for reserved margin at peak.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The winter peak load for the 2018-2019 season of approximately 757 MW occurred on January 30, 2019. 

Coal Purchases

Coal for coal-fired generating stations has been supplied from operators of nearby coal mines as there are substantial coal reserves in the southern Indiana area. Approximately 2.6 million tons were purchased for generating electricity during 2019. Indiana Electric’s coal inventory was approximately 664,000 tons as of December 31, 2019. The average cost of coal per ton purchased and delivered in 2019 was $50.67. Since August 2014, Indiana Electric has purchased substantially all of its coal from Sunrise Coal, LLC.

Firm Purchase Supply

As part of its power portfolio, Indiana Electric is a 1.5% shareholder in the OVEC, and based on its participation in the ICPA between OVEC and its shareholder companies, many of whom are regulated electric utilities, Indiana Electric has the right to 1.5% of OVEC’s generating capacity output, which, as of December 31, 2019, was approximately 32 MWs. Per the ICPA, Indiana Electric is charged demand charges which are based on OVEC’s operating expenses, including its financing costs. Those demand charges are eligible to pass through to customers under Indiana Electric’s fuel adjustment clause. Under the ICPA, and while OVEC’s plants are operating, Indiana Electric is severally responsible for its share of OVEC’s debt obligations. Based on OVEC’s current financing, as of December 31, 2019, Indiana Electric’s 1.5% share of OVEC’s debt obligation equates to between $20 million and $25 million, depending on revolving capacity commitments. Despite the bankruptcy proceedings of one of OVEC’s shareholders that holds a 4.9% interest under the ICPA, OVEC has represented it has both liquidity and financing capability that will allow it to continue to operate and provide power to its participating members, who include American Electric Power Company Inc., Duke Energy Corporation, and PPL Corporation. In 2019, Indiana Electric purchased approximately 121 GWh from OVEC. If a default were to occur by a member, any reallocation of the existing debt requires consent of the remaining ICPA participants. If any such reallocation were to occur, Indiana Electric would expect to recover any related costs through the fuel adjustment clause, as it does currently for its 1.5% share. In July 2019, the Ohio Legislature enacted House Bill 6, which provides for financial support to the members of OVEC serving Ohio customers.

In April 2008, Indiana Electric executed a capacity contract with Benton County Wind Farm, LLC to purchase as much as 30 MW of energy from a wind farm located in Benton County, Indiana, with IURC approval. The contract expires in 2029. Indiana 

6

Electric purchased approximately 71 GWh in 2019 under this contract. In December 2009, Indiana Electric executed a 20-year power purchase agreement with Fowler Ridge II Wind Farm, LLC to purchase as much as 50 MW of energy from a wind farm located in Benton and Tippecanoe Counties in Indiana, with the approval of the IURC. Indiana Electric purchased approximately 126 GWh in 2019 under this contract. In total, wind resources provided 4% of total GWh sourced in 2019.

MISO Related Activity

Indiana Electric is a member of the MISO, a FERC approved regional transmission organization. The MISO serves the electric transmission needs of much of the Midcontinent region and maintains operational control over Indiana Electric’s electric transmission facilities as well as other utilities in the region. Indiana Electric is an active participant in the MISO energy markets, where it bids its generation into the Day Ahead and Real Time markets and procures power for its retail customers at LMP as determined by the MISO market. MISO-related purchase and sale transactions are recorded using settlement information provided by the MISO. These purchase and sale transactions are accounted for on at least a net hourly position. During 2019, in intervals when purchases from the MISO were in excess of generation sold to the MISO, the net purchases were 447 GWh. During the year ended December 31, 2019, in intervals when sales to the MISO were in excess of purchases from the MISO, the net sales were 377 GWh.

Interconnections

As of December 31, 2019, Indiana Electric had interconnections with Louisville Gas and Electric Company, Duke Energy Shared Services, Inc., Indianapolis Power & Light Company, Hoosier Energy Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc. and Big Rivers Electric Corporation providing the ability to simultaneously interchange approximately 900 MW during peak load periods. Indiana Electric, as required as a member of the MISO, has turned over operational control of the interchange facilities and its own transmission assets to the MISO. Indiana Electric, in conjunction with the MISO, must operate the bulk electric transmission system in accordance with NERC Reliability Standards. As a result, interchange capability varies based on regional transmission system configuration, generation dispatch, seasonal facility ratings and other factors. Indiana Electric is in compliance with reliability standards promulgated by the NERC. 

Properties

Generating Capacity. As of December 31, 2019, Indiana Electric had 1,167 MW of installed generating capacity, as set forth in the following table. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)SIGECO and AGC own a 300 MW unit at the Warrick Power Plant as tenants in common.

7

(2)The Northeast Gas Turbines with 20 MW of combined capacity were retired in April 2019. Broadway Avenue Unit 2 with 65 MW of capacity was retired in December 2019.

(3)Brown Unit 3 is also equipped to burn oil. 

Electric Lines - Transmission and Distribution. As of December 31, 2019, Indiana Electric owned and operated the following electric transmission and distribution lines:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)These assets interconnect with Louisville Gas and Electric Company’s transmission system at Cloverport, Kentucky and with Big Rivers Electric Cooperative at Sebree, Kentucky.

Substations. As of December 31, 2019, Indiana Electric’s transmission system also includes 33 substations with an installed capacity of approximately 4,900 Mva. In addition, Indiana Electric’s distribution system includes 81 distribution substations with an installed capacity of approximately 2,200 Mva and 55,727 distribution transformers with an installed capacity of 2,522 Mva.

Natural Gas Distribution (CenterPoint Energy and CERC)

CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD engages in regulated intrastate natural gas sales and natural gas transportation and storage for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation customers. See the detail of customers by state below. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD also provides unregulated services in Minnesota consisting of residential appliance repair and maintenance services along with HVAC equipment sales. 

Upon consummation of the Merger, CenterPoint Energy added the legacy natural gas utility services of Vectren, which includes the natural gas utility operations of Indiana Gas, SIGECO and VEDO and provides natural gas distribution and transportation services to nearly two-thirds of Indiana and about 20% of Ohio, primarily in the west-central area. The Indiana and Ohio service areas contain diversified manufacturing and agriculture-related enterprises. 

Customers

In 2019, approximately 35% and 39% of CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD’s total throughput was to residential customers and approximately 65% and 61% was to commercial and industrial and transportation customers, respectively. 

8

The table below reflects the number of CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD customers by state as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The largest metropolitan areas served in each state are Houston, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Little Rock, Arkansas; Shreveport, Louisiana; Biloxi, Mississippi; Lawton, Oklahoma; Evansville, Indiana and Dayton, Ohio.

Seasonality

The demand for natural gas sales to residential customers and natural gas sales and transportation for commercial and industrial customers is seasonal and affected by variations in weather conditions. In 2019, approximately 67% of CenterPoint Energy’s NGD’s total throughput and 69% of CERC’s NGD total throughput occurred in the first and fourth quarters. These patterns reflect the higher demand for natural gas for heating purposes during the colder months.

Supply and Transportation. In 2019, CenterPoint Energy’s NGD purchased virtually all of its natural gas supply pursuant to contracts with remaining terms varying from a few months to four years. Certain contracts are firm commitments under five- and ten-year arrangements. Major suppliers are those that account for greater than 10% of CenterPoint Energy’s or CERC’s annual natural gas supply purchases. In 2019, CenterPoint Energy and CERC purchased 53% and 46% of their natural gas supply from four and three major suppliers, respectively. Numerous other suppliers provided the remainder of CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s natural gas supply requirements.

CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD transports their natural gas supplies through various intrastate and interstate pipelines under contracts with remaining terms, including extensions, varying from one to sixteen years. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD anticipates that these gas supply and transportation contracts will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration.

CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD actively engages in commodity price stabilization pursuant to annual gas supply plans presented to and/or filed with each of its state regulatory authorities. These price stabilization activities include use of storage gas and contractually establishing structured prices (e.g., fixed price, costless collars and caps) with CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD’s physical gas suppliers. Their gas supply plans generally call for 50–75% of winter supplies to be stabilized in some fashion.

The regulations of the states in which CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD operates allow them to pass through changes in the cost of natural gas, including savings and costs of financial derivatives associated with the index-priced physical supply, to their customers under purchased gas adjustment provisions in their tariffs. Depending upon the jurisdiction, the purchased gas adjustment factors are updated periodically, ranging from monthly to semi-annually. The changes in the cost of gas billed to customers are subject to review by the applicable regulatory bodies.

CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD uses various third-party storage services or owned natural gas storage facilities to meet peak-day requirements and to manage the daily changes in demand due to changes in weather. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD may also supplement contracted supplies and storage from time to time with stored LNG and propane-air plant production.

9

As of December 31, 2019, CenterPoint Energy and CERC’s NGD owned and operated the following natural gas facilities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table below reflects CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD contracted upstream storage services as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On an ongoing basis, CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD enters into contracts to provide sufficient supplies and pipeline capacity to meet their customer requirements. However, it is possible for limited service disruptions to occur from time to time due to weather conditions, transportation constraints and other events. As a result of these factors, supplies of natural gas may become unavailable from time to time, or prices may increase rapidly in response to temporary supply constraints or other factors.

CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD has AMAs associated with their utility distribution service in Arkansas, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma and Texas. The AMAs have varying terms, the longest of which expires in 2023. Pursuant to the provisions of the agreements, CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD either sells natural gas to the asset manager and agrees to repurchase an equivalent amount of natural gas throughout the year at the same cost, or simply purchases its full natural gas requirements at each delivery point from the asset manager. Generally, AMAs are contracts between CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD and an asset manager that are intended to transfer the working capital obligation and maximize the utilization of the assets. In these agreements, CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD agrees to release transportation and storage capacity to other parties to manage natural gas storage, supply and delivery arrangements for CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD and to use the released capacity for other purposes when it is not needed for CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD may receive compensation from the asset manager through payments made over the life of the AMAs. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD has an obligation to purchase their winter storage requirements that have been released to the asset manager under these AMAs.

Assets

As of December 31, 2019, CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD owned approximately 98,000 and 76,000 linear miles of natural gas distribution and transmission mains, respectively, varying in size from one-half inch to 24 inches in diameter. CenterPoint Energy’s NGD in Indiana and Ohio includes approximately 22,000 miles of distribution and transmission mains, all of which are located in Indiana and Ohio except for pipeline facilities extending from points in northern Kentucky to points in 

10

southern Indiana so that gas may be transported to Indiana and sold or transported to customers in Indiana. Generally, in each of the cities, towns and rural areas served by CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD, they own the underground gas mains and service lines, metering and regulating equipment located on customers’ premises and the district regulating equipment necessary for pressure maintenance. With a few exceptions, the measuring stations at which CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD receives gas are owned, operated and maintained by others, and their distribution facilities begin at the outlet of the measuring equipment. These facilities, including odorizing equipment, are usually located on land owned by suppliers. 

Competition

CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD competes primarily with alternate energy sources such as electricity and other fuel sources. In some areas, intrastate pipelines, other gas distributors and marketers also compete directly for gas sales to end users. In addition, as a result of federal regulations affecting interstate pipelines, natural gas marketers operating on these pipelines may be able to bypass CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD’s facilities and market, sell and/or transport natural gas directly to commercial and industrial customers.

Energy Services (CenterPoint Energy and CERC)

CERC offers competitive variable and fixed-priced physical natural gas supplies primarily to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities through CES and its subsidiary, CEIP, collectively, Energy Services. 

In 2019, CES marketed approximately 1,305 Bcf of natural gas (including approximately 47 Bcf to affiliates) and provided related energy services and transportation to approximately 31,000 customers in over 30 states. CES customers vary in size from small commercial customers to large utility companies. Not included in the 2019 customer count are approximately 66,000 natural gas customers that are served under residential and small commercial choice programs invoiced by their host utility. These customers are not included in customer count so as not to distort the significant margin impact from the remaining customer base.

CES offers a variety of natural gas management services to gas utilities, large industrial customers, electric generators, smaller commercial and industrial customers, municipalities, educational institutions, government facilities and hospitals. These services include load forecasting, supply acquisition, daily swing volume management, invoice consolidation, storage asset management, firm and interruptible transportation administration and forward price management. CES also offers a portfolio of physical delivery services designed to meet customers’ supply and risk management needs. These services include (1) through CEIP, permanent pipeline connections through interconnects with various interstate and intrastate pipeline companies and (2) through MES, temporary delivery of LNG and CNG throughout the lower 48 states, utilizing a fleet of customized equipment to provide continuity of natural gas service when pipeline supply is not available.

In addition to offering natural gas management services, CES procures and optimizes transportation and storage assets. CES maintains a portfolio of natural gas supply contracts and firm transportation and storage agreements to meet the natural gas requirements of its customers. CES aggregates supply from various producing regions and offers contracts to buy natural gas with terms ranging from one month to over five years. In addition, CES actively participates in the spot natural gas markets to balance daily and monthly purchases and sales obligations. Natural gas supply and transportation capabilities are leveraged through contracts for ancillary services including physical storage and other balancing arrangements.

As described above, CES offers its customers a variety of load following services. In providing these services, CES uses its customers’ purchase commitments to forecast and arrange its own supply purchases, storage and transportation services to serve customers’ natural gas requirements. As a result of the variance between this forecast activity and the actual monthly activity, CES will either have too much supply or too little supply relative to its customers’ purchase commitments. These supply imbalances arise each month as customers’ natural gas requirements are scheduled and corresponding natural gas supplies are nominated by CES for delivery to those customers. CES’s processes and risk control policy are designed to measure and value imbalances on a real-time basis to ensure that CES’s exposure to commodity price risk is kept to a minimum. The value assigned to these imbalances is calculated daily and is known as the aggregate VaR.

CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s risk control policy, which is overseen by CenterPoint Energy’s Risk Oversight Committee, defines authorized and prohibited trading instruments and trading limits. CES is a physical marketer of natural gas and uses a variety of tools, including pipeline and storage capacity, financial instruments and physical commodity purchase contracts, to support its sales. CES optimizes its use of these various tools to minimize its supply costs and does not engage in speculative commodity trading. CES currently operates within a VaR limit set by CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors, consistent with CES’ operational objective of matching its aggregate sales obligations (including the swing associated with load following services) with its supply portfolio in a manner that minimizes its total cost of supply. Should CES exceed this VaR limit, management is required to notify CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors. 

11

Assets 

As of December 31, 2019, CEIP owned and operated over 210 miles of intrastate pipeline in Louisiana and Texas. In addition, CES leases transportation capacity on various interstate and intrastate pipelines and storage to service its shippers and end users.

Competition

CES competes with regional and national wholesale and retail gas marketers, including the marketing divisions of natural gas producers and utilities. In addition, CES competes with intrastate pipelines for customers and services in its market areas.

On February 24, 2020, CenterPoint Energy, through its subsidiary CERC Corp., entered into the Equity Purchase Agreement to sell CES, which represents substantially all of the businesses within the Energy Services reportable segment. This transaction does not include CEIP and its assets. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020. For further information, see Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

Infrastructure Services (CenterPoint Energy)

Infrastructure Services provides underground pipeline construction and repair services through wholly-owned subsidiaries Miller Pipeline, LLC and Minnesota Limited, LLC. Infrastructure Services provides services to many utilities, including CenterPoint Energy’s utilities, as well as other industries.

Backlog represents the amount of revenue Infrastructure Services expects to realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Infrastructure Services operates primarily under two types of contracts, blanket contracts and bid contracts. Under blanket contracts, customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services; however, the Company expects to be chosen to perform work needed by a customer in a given time frame. These contracts are typically awarded on an annual or multi-year basis. For blanket work, backlog represents an estimate of the amount of revenue that Infrastructure Services expects to realize from work to be performed in the next twelve months on either existing contracts or contracts it reasonably expects to be renewed or awarded based upon recent history or discussions with customers. Under bid contracts, customers are contractually committed to a specific service to be performed for a specific price, whether in total for a project or on a per unit basis. 

Projects included in backlog can be subject to delays or cancellation as a result of regulatory requirements, adverse weather conditions and certain customer requirements, among other factors. Such delays or cancellations could cause realized revenue amounts to differ significantly from that which was originally expected. 

On February 3, 2020, CenterPoint Energy, through its subsidiary VUSI, entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement to sell the businesses within its Infrastructure Services reportable segment. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020. For further information, see Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

Midstream Investments (CenterPoint Energy)

CenterPoint Energy’s Midstream Investments reportable segment consists of its equity method investment in Enable. Enable is a publicly traded MLP, jointly controlled by CenterPoint Energy (indirectly through CNP Midstream) and OGE as of December 31, 2019. 

On September 4, 2018, CERC completed the Internal Spin of its equity investment in Enable, consisting of Enable common units and its interests in Enable GP, to CenterPoint Energy. For further discussion of the Internal Spin, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.

Enable. Enable owns, operates and develops midstream energy infrastructure assets strategically located to serve its customers. Enable’s assets and operations are organized into two reportable segments: (i) gathering and processing and (ii) transportation and storage. Enable’s gathering and processing segment primarily provides natural gas gathering and processing to its producer customers and crude oil, condensate and produced water gathering services to its producer and refiner customers. Enable’s transportation and storage segment provides interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline transportation and storage services primarily to its producer, power plant, local distribution company and industrial end-user customers.

Enable’s Gathering and Processing segment. Enable owns and operates substantial natural gas and crude oil gathering and natural gas processing assets in five states. Enable’s gathering and processing operations consist primarily of natural gas gathering 

12

and processing assets serving the Anadarko, Arkoma and Ark-La-Tex Basins, crude oil and condensate gathering assets serving the Anadarko Basin and crude oil and produced water gathering assets serving the Williston Basin. Enable provides a variety of services to the active producers in its operating areas, including gathering, compressing, treating, and processing natural gas, fractionating NGLs, and gathering crude oil and produced water. Enable serves shale and other unconventional plays in the basins in which it operates.

Enable’s gathering and processing systems compete with gatherers and processors of all types and sizes, including those affiliated with various producers, other major pipeline companies and various independent midstream entities. Competition for crude oil, condensate, produced water and extracted NGL services also includes trucking and railroad transportation companies. In the process of selling NGLs, Enable competes against other natural gas processors extracting and selling NGLs. Enable’s primary competitors are other midstream companies who are active in the regions where it operates. Enable’s management views the principal elements of competition for its gathering and processing systems as gathering rate, processing value, system reliability, fuel rate, system run time, construction cycle time and prices at the wellhead. 

Enable’s Transportation and Storage segment. Enable owns and operates interstate and intrastate natural gas transportation and storage systems across nine states. Enable’s transportation and storage systems consist primarily of its interstate systems, its intrastate system and its investment in SESH. Enable’s transportation and storage assets transport natural gas from areas of production and interconnected pipelines to power plants, local distribution companies and industrial end users as well as interconnected pipelines for delivery to additional markets. Enable’s transportation and storage assets also provide facilities where natural gas can be stored by customers.

Enable’s interstate and intrastate pipelines compete with a variety of other interstate and intrastate pipelines across its operating areas in providing transportation and storage services, including several pipelines with which it interconnects. Enable’s management views the principal elements of competition among pipelines as rates, terms of service, flexibility and reliability of service. 

For information related to CenterPoint Energy’s equity method investment in Enable, see Note 2(c) and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.

Corporate and Other Operations (CenterPoint Energy and CERC)

CenterPoint Energy’s Corporate and Other Operations reportable segment consists of energy performance contracting and sustainable infrastructure services, such as renewables, distributed generation and combined heat and power projects, through ESG, home repair protection plans through a third party and other corporate support operations that support CenterPoint Energy’s business operations. CenterPoint Energy’s Corporate and Other Operations also includes office buildings and other real estate used for business operations.

CERC’s Corporate and Other Operations reportable segment consists primarily of corporate operations which support all of the business operations of CERC and includes unallocated corporate costs and inter-segment eliminations.

REGULATION

The Registrants are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local governmental agencies, including the regulations described below. The following discussion is based on regulation in the Registrants’ businesses and CenterPoint Energy’s investment in Enable as of December 31, 2019.

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

The FERC has jurisdiction under the NGA and the NGPA, as amended, to regulate the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce and natural gas sales for resale in interstate commerce that are not first sales. The FERC regulates, among other things, the construction of pipeline and related facilities used in the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of these facilities. The FERC has authority to prohibit market manipulation in connection with FERC-regulated transactions, to conduct audits and investigations, and to impose significant civil penalties (up to approximately $1.29 million per day per violation, subject to periodic adjustment to account for inflation) for statutory violations and violations of the FERC’s rules or orders. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s Energy Services reportable segment markets natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to blanket authority granted by the FERC.

Indiana Electric is a “public utility” under the FPA and is subject to regulation by the FERC. The FERC regulates, among other things, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, mergers, acquisitions and corporate transactions by electricity companies, energy markets, reliability standards and the issuance of short-term debt. The FERC also 

13

has authority to impose significant civil penalties (up to approximately $1.29 million per day per violation, subject to periodic adjustment to account for inflation) for statutory violations and violations of the FERC’s rules or orders. Houston Electric is not a “public utility” under the FPA and, therefore, is not generally regulated by the FERC, although certain of its transactions are subject to limited FERC jurisdiction. The FERC has certain responsibilities with respect to ensuring the reliability of electric transmission service, including transmission facilities owned by Houston Electric and other utilities within ERCOT. The FERC has designated the NERC as the ERO to promulgate standards, under FERC oversight, for all owners, operators and users of the bulk power system (Electric Entities). The ERO and the FERC have authority to (a) impose fines and other sanctions on Electric Entities that fail to comply with approved standards and (b) audit compliance with approved standards. The FERC has approved the delegation by the NERC of authority for reliability in ERCOT to the Texas RE and in the MISO to ReliabilityFirst Corporation. Neither Houston Electric nor Indiana Electric anticipate that the reliability standards proposed by the NERC and approved by the FERC will have a material adverse impact on their operations. To the extent that Houston Electric is required to make additional expenditures to comply with these standards, it is anticipated that Houston Electric and Indiana Electric will seek to recover those costs through the transmission charges that are imposed on all distribution service providers within ERCOT and the MISO, respectively, for electric transmission provided.

As a public utility holding company, under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, CenterPoint Energy and its consolidated subsidiaries are subject to reporting and accounting requirements and are required to maintain certain books and records and make them available for review by the FERC and state regulatory authorities in certain circumstances.

For a discussion of the Registrants’ ongoing regulatory proceedings, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of Part II of this report, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.

State and Local Regulation – Electric Transmission & Distribution (CenterPoint Energy and Houston Electric)

Houston Electric conducts its operations pursuant to a certificate of convenience and necessity issued by the PUCT that covers its present service area and facilities. The PUCT and certain municipalities have the authority to set the rates and terms of service provided by Houston Electric under cost-of-service rate regulation. Houston Electric holds non-exclusive franchises from certain incorporated municipalities in its service territory. In exchange for payment of fees, these franchises give Houston Electric the right to use the streets and public rights-of-way of these municipalities to construct, operate and maintain its transmission and distribution system and to use that system to conduct its electric delivery business and for other purposes that the franchises permit. The terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from 20 to 40 years.

Houston Electric’s distribution rates charged to REPs for residential and small commercial customers are primarily based on amounts of energy delivered, whereas distribution rates for a majority of large commercial and industrial customers are primarily based on peak demand. All REPs in Houston Electric’s service area pay the same rates and other charges for transmission and distribution services. This regulated delivery charge includes the transmission and distribution rate (which includes municipal franchise fees), a distribution recovery mechanism for recovery of incremental distribution-invested capital above that which is already reflected in the base distribution rate, a nuclear decommissioning charge associated with decommissioning the South Texas nuclear generating facility, an EECR charge, and charges associated with securitization of regulatory assets, stranded costs and restoration costs relating to Hurricane Ike. Transmission rates charged to distribution companies are based on amounts of energy transmitted under “postage stamp” rates that do not vary with the distance the energy is being transmitted. All distribution companies in ERCOT pay Houston Electric the same rates and other charges for transmission services.

With the IURC’s approval, Indiana Electric is a member of the MISO, a FERC-approved regional transmission organization. The MISO serves the electrical transmission needs of much of the midcontinent region and maintains operational control over Indiana Electric’s electric transmission and generation facilities as well as those of other utilities in the region. Indiana Electric is an active participant in the MISO energy markets, bidding its owned generation into the Day Ahead and Real Time markets and procuring power for its retail customers at Locational Marginal Pricing as determined by the MISO market. Indiana Electric also receives transmission revenue that results from other members’ use of Indiana Electric’s transmission system. Generally, these transmission revenues, along with costs charged by the MISO, are considered components of base rates and any variance from that included in base rates is recovered from or refunded to retail customers through tracking mechanisms.

For a discussion of certain of Houston Electric’s and Indiana Electric’s ongoing regulatory proceedings, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of Part II of this report, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.

14

State and Local Regulation – Electric Generation (CenterPoint Energy)

Indiana Electric owns and operates 1,000 MW of coal-fired generation, 163 MW of gas-fired generation and 4 MW of solar generation. Indiana Electric also is party to two purchase power agreements, entitling it to the delivery of up to 80 MW of electricity produced by wind turbines. The energy and capacity secured from Indiana Electric’s available generation resources are utilized primarily to serve the needs of retail electric customers residing within Indiana Electric’s franchised service territory. Costs of operating Indiana Electric’s generation facilities are recovered through IURC-approved base rates as well as periodic rate recovery mechanisms including the CECA, DSMA, ECA, FAC, MCRA, RCRA Mechanism and TDSIC. Costs that are deemed unreasonable or imprudent by the IURC may not be recoverable through retail electric rates. Indiana Electric also receives revenues from the MISO to compensate it for benefits the generation facilities provide to the transmission system. Proceeds from the sales of energy from Indiana Electric’s generation facilities that exceed the requirements of retail customers are shared by Indiana Electric and retail electric customers.

The generation facilities owned and operated by Indiana Electric are subject to various environmental regulations enforced by the EPA and the IDEM. Operation of Indiana Electric’s generation facilities are subject to regulation by the EPA and the IDEM as it pertains to the discharge of constituents from the generation facilities. For further discussion, see “Our Business — Environmental Matters” below. 

State and Local Regulation – Natural Gas Distribution (CenterPoint Energy and CERC)

In almost all communities in which CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD provides natural gas distribution services, they operate under franchises, certificates or licenses obtained from state and local authorities. The original terms of the franchises, with various expiration dates, typically range from 10 to 30 years, although franchises in Arkansas are perpetual. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD expects to be able to renew expiring franchises. In most cases, franchises to provide natural gas utility services are not exclusive.

Substantially all of CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD is subject to cost-of-service rate regulation by the relevant state public utility commissions and, in Texas, by those municipalities served by CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD that have retained original jurisdiction. In certain of the jurisdictions in which they operate, CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD has annual rate adjustment mechanisms that provide for changes in rates dependent upon certain changes in invested capital, earned returns on equity or actual margins realized. 

For a discussion of certain of CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD’s ongoing regulatory proceedings, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of Part II of this report, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.

Department of Transportation (CenterPoint Energy and CERC)

In December 2006, Congress enacted the 2006 Act, which reauthorized the programs adopted under the 2002 Act. These programs included several requirements related to ensuring pipeline safety, and a requirement to assess the integrity of pipeline transmission facilities in areas of high population concentration. 

Pursuant to the 2006 Act, PHMSA, an agency of the DOT, issued regulations, effective February 12, 2010, requiring operators of gas distribution pipelines to develop and implement integrity management programs similar to those required for gas transmission pipelines, but tailored to reflect the differences in distribution pipelines. Operators of natural gas distribution systems were required to write and implement their integrity management programs by August 2, 2011. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s natural gas distribution systems met this deadline.

Pursuant to the 2002 Act and the 2006 Act, PHMSA has adopted a number of rules concerning, among other things, distinguishing between gathering lines and transmission facilities, requiring certain design and construction features in new and replaced lines to reduce corrosion and requiring pipeline operators to amend existing written operations and maintenance procedures and operator qualification programs. PHMSA also updated its reporting requirements for natural gas pipelines effective January 1, 2011. 

In December 2011, Congress passed the 2011 Act. This act increased the maximum civil penalties for pipeline safety administrative enforcement actions; required the DOT to study and report on the expansion of integrity management requirements and the sufficiency of existing gathering line regulations to ensure safety; required pipeline operators to verify their records on maximum allowable operating pressure; and imposed new emergency response and incident notification requirements. In 2016, the 2016 Act reauthorized PHMSA’s pipeline safety programs through 2019 and provided limited new authority, including the 

15

ability to issue emergency orders, to set inspection requirements for certain underwater pipelines and to promulgate minimum safety standards for natural gas storage facilities, as well as to provide increased transparency into the status of as-yet-incomplete PHMSA actions required by the 2011 Act. Congress did not pass a bill reauthorizing PHMSA in 2019, and PHMSA is operating under a continuing resolution until a new bill is passed. PHMSA did receive federal funding for fiscal year 2020.

CenterPoint Energy and CERC anticipate that compliance with PHMSA’s regulations, performance of the remediation activities by CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD and intrastate pipelines and verification of records on maximum allowable operating pressure will continue to require increases in both capital expenditures and operating costs. The level of expenditures will depend upon several factors, including age, location and operating pressures of the facilities. In particular, the cost of compliance with the DOT’s integrity management rules will depend on integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary by such testing. Changes to the amount of pipe subject to integrity management, whether by expansion of the definition of the type of areas subject to integrity management procedures or of the applicability of such procedures outside of those defined areas, may also affect the costs incurred. Implementation of the 2011 and 2016 Acts, or implementation of future acts, by PHMSA may result in other regulations or the reinterpretation of existing regulations that could impact compliance costs. In addition, CenterPoint Energy and CERC may be subject to the DOT’s enforcement actions and penalties if they fail to comply with pipeline regulations.

Midstream Investments – Rate and Other Regulation (CenterPoint Energy)

Federal, state, and local regulation of pipeline gathering and transportation services may affect certain aspects of Enable’s business and the market for its products and services, as discussed below.

Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Regulation

Enable’s interstate pipeline systems—EGT, MRT and SESH—are subject to regulation by the FERC and are considered “natural gas companies” under the NGA. Under the NGA, the rates for service on Enable’s interstate facilities must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Rate and tariff changes for these facilities can only be implemented upon approval by the FERC. Enable’s interstate pipelines business operations may be affected by changes in the demand for natural gas, the available supply and relative price of natural gas in the Mid-continent and Gulf Coast natural gas supply regions and general economic conditions. 

Market Behavior Rules; Posting and Reporting Requirements

The EPAct of 2005 amended the NGA and the FPA to add an anti-manipulation provision that makes it unlawful for any entity to engage in prohibited behavior as prescribed in FERC rules, which were subsequently issued in FERC Order No. 670. The EPAct of 2005 also amends the NGA, the FPA and the NGPA to give the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of these statutes and FERC’s regulations, rules, and orders, of up to approximately $1.29 million per day per violation, subject to periodic adjustment to account for inflation. Should Enable fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, it could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. In addition, the CFTC is directed under the CEA to prevent price manipulations for the commodity and futures markets, including the energy futures markets. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and other authority, the CFTC has adopted anti-market manipulation regulations that prohibit fraud and price manipulation in the commodity and futures markets. The CFTC also has statutory authority to seek civil penalties of up to the greater of $1.2 million or triple the monetary gain to the violator for violations of the anti-market manipulation sections of the CEA. These maximum penalty levels are also subject to periodic adjustment to account for inflation.

Intrastate Natural Gas Pipeline and Storage Regulation

Intrastate natural gas transportation is largely regulated by the state in which the transportation takes place. However, an intrastate natural gas pipeline system may transport natural gas in interstate commerce provided that the rates, terms, and conditions of such transportation service comply with Section 311 of the NGPA and Part 284 of the FERC’s regulations. Rates for service pursuant to Section 311 of the NGPA are generally subject to review and approval by the FERC at least once every five years. Failure to observe the service limitations applicable to transportation services provided under Section 311, failure to comply with the rates approved by the FERC for Section 311 service, or failure to comply with the terms and conditions of service established in the pipeline’s FERC-approved Statement of Operating Conditions could result in the assertion of federal NGA jurisdiction by the FERC and/or the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as described under “—Market Behavior Rules; Posting and Reporting Requirements” above.

16

Natural Gas Gathering and Processing Regulation

Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the FERC. Although the FERC has not made formal determinations with respect to all of the facilities Enable considers to be natural gas gathering facilities, Enable believes that its natural gas pipelines meet the traditional tests that the FERC has used to determine that a pipeline is a natural gas gathering pipeline and is therefore not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and the FERC determines whether facilities are natural gas gathering facilities on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and regulation of Enable’s gathering facilities is subject to change based on future determinations. 

States may regulate gathering pipelines. State regulation of natural gas gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, anti-discrimination requirements, and in some instances complaint-based rate regulation. Enable’s natural gas gathering operations may be subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in the states in which they operate.

Enable’s gathering operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services. Enable’s natural gas gathering operations could also be subject to additional safety and operational regulations relating to the design, construction, testing, operation, replacement and maintenance of gathering facilities. CenterPoint Energy cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on Enable’s operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.

Interstate Crude Oil Gathering Regulation

Enable’s crude oil gathering systems in the Williston Basin transport crude oil in interstate commerce pursuant to a public tariff in accordance with FERC regulatory requirements. Crude oil gathering pipelines that transport crude oil in interstate commerce may be regulated as common carriers by the FERC under the ICA, the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. The ICA and FERC regulations require that rates for interstate service pipelines that transport crude oil and refined petroleum products (collectively referred to as “petroleum pipelines”) and certain other liquids, be just and reasonable and non-discriminatory or not conferring any undue preference upon any shipper. FERC regulations also require interstate common carrier petroleum pipelines to file with the FERC and publicly post tariffs stating their interstate transportation rates and terms and conditions of service.

Intrastate Crude Oil and Condensate Gathering Regulation

Enable’s crude oil and condensate gathering system in the Anadarko Basin is located in Oklahoma and is subject to limited regulation by the OCC. Crude oil and condensate gathering systems are common carriers under Oklahoma law and are prohibited from unjust or unlawful discrimination in favor of one customer over another. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. Enable’s crude oil and condensate gathering results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.

Safety and Health Regulation

Certain of Enable’s facilities are subject to pipeline safety regulations. PHMSA regulates safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of jurisdictional natural gas and hazardous liquid pipeline facilities. All natural gas transmission facilities, such as Enable’s interstate natural gas pipelines, are subject to PHMSA’s regulations, but natural gas gathering pipelines are subject only to the extent they are classified as regulated gathering pipelines. In addition, several NGL pipeline facilities and crude oil pipeline facilities are regulated as hazardous liquids pipelines. 

Pursuant to various federal statutes, including the NGPSA, the DOT, through PHMSA, regulates pipeline safety and integrity. NGL and crude oil pipelines are subject to regulation by PHMSA under the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act which requires PHMSA to develop, prescribe, and enforce minimum federal safety standards for the transportation of hazardous liquids by pipeline, and comparable state statutes with respect to design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. Should Enable fail to comply with DOT or comparable state regulations, it could be subject to penalties and fines. If future DOT pipeline regulations were to require that Enable expand its integrity management program to currently unregulated pipelines, costs associated with compliance may have a material effect on its operations.

17

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The following discussion is based on environmental matters in the Registrants’ businesses as of December 31, 2019. The Registrants’ operations and the operations of Enable are subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations pertaining to the environment. As an owner or operator of natural gas pipelines, distribution systems and storage, electric transmission and distribution systems, steam electric generation systems and the facilities that support these systems, the Registrants must comply with these laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact the Registrants’ business activities in many ways, including, but not limited to:

•restricting the way the Registrants can handle or dispose of wastes, including wastewater discharges and air emissions;

•limiting or prohibiting construction activities in sensitive areas such as wetlands, coastal regions or areas inhabited by endangered species;

•requiring remedial action and monitoring to mitigate environmental conditions caused by the Registrants’ operations or attributable to former operations;

•enjoining the operations of facilities with permits issued pursuant to such environmental laws and regulations; and

•impacting the demand for the Registrants’ services by directly or indirectly affecting the use or price of fossil fuels, including, but not limited to, natural gas.

To comply with these requirements, the Registrants may need to spend substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time to, among other activities:

•construct or acquire new facilities and equipment;

•acquire permits for facility operations or purchase emissions allowances;

•modify, upgrade or replace existing and proposed equipment; and

•decommission or remediate waste management areas, fuel storage facilities and other locations.

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, revocation of permits, the imposition of remedial actions and monitoring and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to assess, clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been stored, disposed or released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and/or property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment.

The recent trend in environmental regulation has been to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment. There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation and monitoring, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts currently anticipated. The Registrants try to anticipate future regulatory requirements that might be imposed and plan accordingly to maintain compliance with changing environmental laws and regulations. 

Based on current regulatory requirements and interpretations, the Registrants do not believe that compliance with federal, state or local environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on their business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the Registrants believe that their current environmental remediation activities will not materially interrupt or diminish their operational ability. The Registrants cannot assure you that future events, such as changes in existing laws, the promulgation of new laws, or the development or discovery of new facts or conditions will not cause them to incur significant costs. The following is a discussion of material current environmental and safety issues, laws and regulations that relate to the Registrants’ operations. The Registrants believe that they are in substantial compliance with these environmental laws and regulations.

Global Climate Change

There is increasing attention being paid in the United States and worldwide to the issue of climate change. As a result, from time to time, regulatory agencies have considered the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or 

18

regulations addressing the emissions of GHG on the state, federal, or international level. Some of the proposals would require industrial sources to meet stringent new standards that would require substantial reductions in GHG emissions. CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s revenues, operating costs and capital requirements could be adversely affected as a result of any regulatory action that would require installation of new control technologies or a modification of their operations or would have the effect of reducing the consumption of natural gas. One such rule, the ACE rule, which was finalized by the EPA in 2019, requires states to establish heat rate performance standards for steam electric generating facilities. Under the ACE rule, a state has three years to finalize its program and the EPA then has 18 months to approve, making compliance by Indiana Electric’s generating units required in 2023-2024. 

Houston Electric, in contrast to some electric utilities, does not generate electricity and thus is not directly exposed to the risk of high capital costs and regulatory uncertainties that face electric utilities that burn fossil fuels to generate electricity. Nevertheless, CenterPoint Energy’s and Houston Electric’s revenues could be adversely affected to the extent any resulting regulatory action has the effect of reducing consumption of electricity by ultimate consumers within Houston Electric’s service territory. Likewise, incentives to conserve energy or to use energy sources other than natural gas could result in a decrease in demand for the Registrants’ services. Conversely, regulatory actions that effectively promote the consumption of natural gas because of its lower emissions characteristics would be expected to beneficially affect CenterPoint Energy and CERC and their natural gas-related businesses. At this point in time, however, it would be speculative to try to quantify the magnitude of the impacts from possible new regulatory actions related to GHG emissions, either positive or negative, on the Registrants’ businesses.

To the extent climate changes may occur and such climate changes result in warmer temperatures in the Registrants’ or Enable’s service territories, financial results from the Registrants’ and Enable’s businesses could be adversely impacted. For example, CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD could be adversely affected through lower natural gas sales and Enable’s natural gas gathering, processing and transportation and crude oil gathering businesses could experience lower revenues. On the other hand, warmer temperatures in CenterPoint Energy’s and Houston Electric’s electric service territory may increase revenues from transmission and distribution and generation through increased demand for electricity for cooling. Another possible result of climate change is more frequent and more severe weather events, such as hurricanes or tornadoes. Since many of the Registrants’ facilities are located along or near the Gulf Coast, increased or more severe hurricanes or tornadoes could increase costs to repair damaged facilities and restore service to customers. When the Registrants cannot deliver electricity or natural gas to customers, or customers cannot receive services, the Registrants’ financial results can be impacted by lost revenues, and they generally must seek approval from regulators to recover restoration costs. To the extent the Registrants are unable to recover those costs, or if higher rates resulting from recovery of such costs result in reduced demand for services, the Registrants’ future financial results may be adversely impacted.

Air Emissions

The Registrants’ operations are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate emissions of air pollutants from various industrial sources, including processing plants and compressor stations, and also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements. Such laws and regulations may require pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions. The Registrants may be required to obtain and strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations, or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations, and potentially criminal enforcement actions. The Registrants may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions.

The EPA has established new air emission control requirements for natural gas and NGLs production, processing and transportation activities. Under the NESHAPS, the EPA established the RICE MACT rule. Compressors and back up electrical generators used by CenterPoint Energy’s and CERC’s NGD, and back up electrical generators used by CenterPoint Energy and Houston Electric, are substantially compliant with these laws and regulations. Similarly, the EPA also established the MATS rule, which sets emission limits for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from steam electric generating facilities. Indiana Electric’s generating units are in full compliance with the MATS rule.

19

Water Discharges

The Registrants’ operations are subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended, also known as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations impose detailed requirements and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The unpermitted discharge of pollutants, including discharges resulting from a spill or leak incident, is prohibited. The Clean Water Act and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material into wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. Any unpermitted release of petroleum or other pollutants from the Registrants’ pipelines or facilities could result in fines or penalties as well as significant remedial obligations.

Waters of the United States

Under the Obama administration, the EPA promulgated a set of rules that included a comprehensive regulatory overhaul of defining “waters of the United States” for the purposes of determining federal jurisdiction. The Trump administration signaled its intent to repeal and replace the Obama-era rules. In accordance with this intent, the EPA promulgated a rule in early 2018 that postponed the effectiveness of the Obama-era rules until 2020. Thereafter, the EPA proposed a new set of rules that would narrow the Clean Water Act’s jurisdiction, which were released in January 2020 and will become final upon publication in the Federal Register. Environmental stakeholders and certain states have indicated their intent to challenge the new rule and further litigation is likely. The potential impact of any new “waters of the United States” regulations on the Registrants’ business, liabilities, compliance obligations or profits and revenues is uncertain at this time.

ELG

In 2015 the EPA finalized revisions to the existing steam electric wastewater discharge standards which set more stringent wastewater discharge limits and effectively prohibited further wet disposal of coal ash in ash ponds. These new standards are applied at the time of permit renewal and an affected facility must comply no later than December 31, 2023. In February 2019, the IURC approved Indiana Electric’s ELG compliance plan for its F.B. Culley Generating Station, and Indiana Electric is currently finalizing its ELG compliance plan for the remainder of its affected units as part of its ongoing IRP process.

Cooling Water Intake Structures

Section 316 of the federal Clean Water Act requires steam electric generating facilities use “best technology available” to minimize adverse environmental impacts on a body of water. In May 2014 EPA finalized a regulation requiring installation of BTA to mitigate impingement and entrainment of aquatic species in cooling water intake structures. Indiana Electric is currently completing the required ecological studies and anticipates timely compliance in 2021-2022. 

Hazardous Waste

The Registrants’ operations generate wastes, including some hazardous wastes, that are subject to the federal RCRA, and comparable state laws, which impose detailed requirements for the handling, storage, treatment, transport and disposal of hazardous and solid waste. RCRA currently exempts many natural gas gathering and field processing wastes from classification as hazardous waste. Specifically, RCRA excludes from the definition of hazardous waste waters produced and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of crude oil and natural gas. However, these oil and gas exploration and production wastes are still regulated under state law and the less stringent non-hazardous waste requirements of RCRA. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils may be regulated as hazardous waste. The transportation of natural gas in pipelines may also generate some hazardous wastes that would be subject to RCRA or comparable state law requirements.

Coal Ash

Indiana Electric has three ash ponds, two at the F.B. Culley facility (Culley East and Culley West) and one at the A.B. Brown facility. In 2015, the EPA finalized its CCR Rule, which regulates coal ash as non-hazardous material under the RCRA. The final rule allows beneficial reuse of ash, and the majority of the ash generated by Indiana Electric’s generating plants will continue to be reused. Under the existing CCR Rule, Indiana Electric is required to perform integrity assessments, including ground water monitoring, at its F.B. Culley and A.B. Brown generating stations. The ground water studies are necessary to determine the remaining service life of the ponds and whether a pond must be retrofitted with liners or closed in place. In March 2018, Indiana Electric began posting ground water data monitoring reports annually to its public website in accordance with the requirements of the CCR Rule. This data preliminarily indicates potential groundwater impacts very close to Indiana Electric’s ash impoundments, and further analysis is ongoing.The CCR Rule required companies to complete location restriction determinations by October 18, 

20

2018. Indiana Electric completed its evaluation and determined that one F.B. Culley pond (Culley East) and the A.B. Brown pond fail the aquifer placement location restriction. As a result of this failure, Indiana Electric is required to cease disposal of new ash in the ponds and commence closure of the ponds by August 2020. Indiana Electric plans to seek extensions available under the CCR Rule that would allow Indiana Electric to continue to use the ponds through December 31, 2023. The inability to take these extensions may result in increased and potentially significant operational costs in connection with the accelerated implementation of an alternative ash disposal system or adversely impact Indiana Electric’s future operations. Failure to comply with these requirements could also result in an enforcement proceeding, including the imposition of fines and penalties. For further discussion about Indiana Electric’s ash ponds, please see Note 16(e) to the consolidated financial statements. 

Liability for Remediation

CERCLA, also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons responsible for the release of “hazardous substances” into the environment. Classes of PRPs include the current and past owners or operators of sites where a hazardous substance was released and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at offsite locations such as landfills. Although petroleum, as well as natural gas, is expressly excluded from CERCLA’s definition of a “hazardous substance,” in the course of the Registrants’ ordinary operations they do, from time to time, generate wastes that may fall within the definition of a “hazardous substance.” CERCLA authorizes the EPA and, in some cases, third parties to take action in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to recover the costs they incur from the responsible classes of persons. Under CERCLA, the Registrants could potentially be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up and restoring sites where hazardous substances have been released, for damages to natural resources, and for associated response and assessment costs, including for the costs of certain health studies.

Liability for Preexisting Conditions

For information about preexisting environmental matters, please see Note 16(e) to the consolidated financial statements.

EMPLOYEES

The following table sets forth the number of employees by Registrant and reportable segment as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For information about the status of collective bargaining agreements, see Note 8(j) to the consolidated financial statements.

On February 3, 2020, CenterPoint Energy, through its subsidiary VUSI, entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement to sell the businesses within its Infrastructure Services reportable segment. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020. For further information, see Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

Additionally, on February 24, 2020, CenterPoint Energy, through its subsidiary CERC Corp., entered into the Equity Purchase Agreement to sell CES, which represents substantially all of the businesses within the Energy Services reportable segment. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020. For further information, see Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

21

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

(as of February 25, 2020)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Milton Carroll has served on the Board of Directors of CenterPoint Energy or its predecessors since 1992. He has served as Executive Chairman of CenterPoint Energy since June 2013 and as Chairman from September 2002 until May 2013. Mr. Carroll has served as a director of Halliburton Company since 2006. He has served as a director of Health Care Service Corporation since 1998 and as its chairman since 2002. He previously served as a director of Western Midstream Holdings, LLC, the general partner of Western Midstream Partners, LP, from February 2019 to August 2019, Western Gas Holdings, LLC, the general partner of Western Gas Partners, LP, from 2008 to February 2019, LyondellBasell Industries N.V. from July 2010 to July 2016 as well as LRE GP, LLC, the general partner of LRR Energy, L.P., from November 2011 to January 2014.

John W. Somerhalder has served as Interim President and Chief Executive Officer of CenterPoint Energy since February 19, 2020. He has served as a director of CenterPoint Energy since October 2016. He most recently served as Interim President and Chief Executive Officer of Colonial Pipeline Company, a privately held company that operates a refined liquid petroleum products pipeline system, from February 2017 to October 2017. Prior to joining Colonial Pipeline Company, Mr. Somerhalder served as President, Chief Executive Officer and as a director of AGL Resources Inc., a former publicly traded energy services holding company, whose principal business is the distribution of natural gas, from March 2006 through December 2015 and as chairman of the board of AGL Resources Inc. from November 2007 through December 2015. Prior to joining AGL Resources Inc., he served in a number of roles with El Paso Corporation, a publicly traded natural gas and related energy products provider, and its subsidiaries since 1977, including as Executive Vice President. Mr. Somerhalder currently serves on the board of directors of Enable GP, LLC, the general partner of Enable Midstream Partners, LP. He served as a director of Crestwood Equity GP LLC, the general partner of Crestwood Equity Partners LP, from 2013 to February 2020 and as a director of SunCoke Energy Partners GP LLC, the general partner of SunCoke Energy Partners, L.P. from 2017 to July 2019. He also serves as a director or trustee on the boards of numerous non-profit organizations.

Xia Liu has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CenterPoint Energy since April 2019. Prior to joining CenterPoint Energy, Ms. Liu was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Georgia Power Company, a subsidiary of the Southern Company, from October 2017 to April 2019 and served as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Gulf Power Company, formerly a subsidiary of the Southern Company, from July 2015 to October 2017. She also served in various finance, regulatory and operations roles of increasing responsibility at the Southern Company beginning in 1998, including Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from 2014 to 2015 and Vice President, Finance and Assistant Treasurer from 2010 to 2014. Ms. Liu currently serves on the Board of Directors of Enable GP, LLC, the general partner of Enable Midstream Partners, LP, and as a director of the PACT World Organization.

Scott E. Doyle has served as Executive Vice President, Natural Gas Distribution since February 2019. With more than 25 years of utility industry experience, he previously served as Senior Vice President, Natural Gas Distribution from March 2017 to February 2019; Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Public Affairs from February 2014 to March 2017; as Division Vice President, Rates and Regulatory from April 2012 to February 2014; and as Division Vice President, Regional Operations from March 2010 to April 2012. Mr. Doyle currently serves on the boards of Goodwill Industries of Houston, Southern Gas Association, Central Indiana Corporate Partnership, Evansville Regional Business Council and the American Gas Foundation. He previously served on the boards of the Texas Gas Association and the Association of Electric Companies of Texas.

Kenneth M. Mercado has served as Senior Vice President, Electric Operations since February 2020. He previously served as Chief Integration Officer from May 2018 to February 2020; as Senior Vice President, Electric Operations from February 2014 to May 2018; and as Division Senior Vice President, Grid and Market Operations from January 2012 to February 2014 in addition to other key positions at CenterPoint Energy focusing on Electric Operations technology and logistics. Mr. Mercado serves on the boards of the Southeastern Electric Exchange, Research Advisory Counsel at the Electric Power Research Institute, Advisory 

22

Board at Texas A&M Smart Grid Coalition, the Engineering Leadership Board at the University of Houston and the Center for Houston’s Future.

Joseph J. Vortherms has served as Senior Vice President, Competitive Energy Businesses since March 2017. He previously served as Vice President, Energy Services from November 2015 to March 2017; as Vice President, Regional Operations in Minnesota from October 2014 to November 2015; as Division Vice President, Regional Operations from April 2012 to October 2014; and as Director, Home Service Plus from January 2007 to April 2012. Mr. Vortherms has served on the Southern Gas Association Executive Council as well as the American Gas Association Scenario Planning Council. He also previously served on the boards of the Minnesota Region American Red Cross and the Minnesota Business Partnership.

Jason M. Ryan has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel since April 2019. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Legal, Regulatory Services and Government Affairs from February 2019 to April 2019; as Vice President of Regulatory and Government Affairs and Associate General Counsel from March 2017 to February 2019; and as Vice President and Associate General Counsel from September 2014 to March 2017. He was appointed to the Texas Diabetes Council by Texas Governor Perry in 2013 for a term ending in 2019 and reappointed by Texas Governor Abbott in 2019 for a term ending in 2025. Mr. Ryan currently serves on the boards of the Houston Bar Foundation, the Texas Gulf Coast Chapter of the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society and the Association of Electric Companies of Texas. He also serves on the executive committee of the legal committee of the American Gas Association.

Sue B. Ortenstone has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of CenterPoint Energy since February 2014. Prior to joining CenterPoint Energy, Ms. Ortenstone was Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer at Copano Energy from July 2012 to May 2013. Before joining Copano, she spent more than 30 years at El Paso Corporation and served most recently as Senior Vice President and then Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer from November 2003 to May 2012. Ms. Ortenstone serves on the Industrial Advisory Board in the College of Engineering at the University of Wisconsin. Ms. Ortenstone also serves on the Board of Trustees for Northwest Assistance Ministries of Houston.

Item 1A.Risk Factors