ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. See "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of certain risks and uncertainties that may cause these differences. 

Overview

Citrix is an enterprise software company focused on helping customers improve the productivity and user experience of their most valuable assets, their employees. We do this by creating a digital workspace that provides unified, secure, and reliable access to all applications and content employees need to be productive - anytime, anywhere, on any device. Our Networking solutions which can be consumed via hardware or software, complement our Workspace solutions by delivering applications and data employees need across any network with security, reliability and speed. 

Executive Summary 

As an organization, we have been transforming our business in three primary ways: shifting our customers from on-premises datacenters to the cloud; moving from perpetual licenses to a subscription business; and evolving our portfolio from building individual point products to a unified platform for work. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we released new solutions that illustrate our progress through this transformation, including Citrix Workspace with intelligent capabilities and Citrix Analytics for performance, both cloud subscription offerings made possible by a unified and expanded Citrix portfolio.

Our subscription transition is expected to result in more sustainable, recurring revenue growth over time as less revenue comes from one-time product and licensing streams and more revenue comes from predictable, recurring streams that will be recognized in future periods. We believe that this dynamic is best captured in our Subscription and SaaS Annualized Recurring Revenue, or ARR. This operating metric represents the contracted recurring value of all termed subscriptions normalized to a one-year period. It is calculated at the end of a reporting period by taking each contract’s recurring total contract value and dividing by the length of the contract. ARR includes only active contractually committed, fixed subscription fees. All contracts are annualized, including 30 day offerings where we take monthly recurring revenue multiplied by 12 to annualize. ARR may be influenced by seasonality within the year. ARR should be viewed independently of U.S. GAAP revenue, deferred revenue and unbilled revenue and is not intended to be combined with or to replace those items. ARR is not a forecast of future revenue. As we continue through this business model transition, we believe ARR is a key indicator of the overall health and trajectory of our business. Management uses ARR to monitor the growth of our subscription business.

On January 22, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a $0.35 per share dividend payable March 20, 2020 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 6, 2020 and that our Board of Directors increased our share repurchase authorization by $1.00 billion. We also announced that we entered into a $1.00 billion term loan credit facility (the "Term Loan Credit Agreement").

On January 30, 2020, we used the proceeds from our Term Loan Credit Agreement to enter into accelerated share repurchase transactions ("ASR") with each of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (each, a "Dealer") for an aggregate of $1.00 billion. Under the ASR transactions, we received an initial share delivery of 6.5 million shares of our common stock, with the remainder, if any, delivered upon completion of the ASR transactions. The total number of shares of common stock that we will repurchase under each ASR agreement will be based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of our common stock during the term of the applicable ASR agreement, less a discount. At settlement, each Dealer may be required to deliver additional shares of common stock to us or, under certain circumstances, we may be required to deliver shares of common stock, at our election, or make a cash payment to the applicable Dealer. Our Board of Directors will continue to review our capital allocation strategy and will determine whether to repurchase shares of our common stock and/or declare future dividends based on our financial performance, business outlook and other considerations.

On August 19, 2019, we announced the appointment of Arlen R. Shenkman as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective September 9, 2019.

Summary of Results

For the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, we delivered the following financial performance:

•Subscription revenue increased 42.9% to $650.8 million; 

32

•SaaS revenue increased 42.7% to $390.8 million;

•Product and license revenue decreased 20.6% to $583.5 million;

•Support and services revenue decreased 0.4% to $1.78 billion;

•Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased 0.8% to 84.6%;

•Operating income decreased 20.9% to $536.1 million; 

•Diluted net income per share increased from $3.94 to $5.03;

•Unbilled revenue increased $366.4 million to $704.8 million;

•Subscription ARR increased $215.4 million to $742.9 million; and

•SaaS ARR increased $169.9 million to $519.7 million.

Our Subscription revenue increased primarily due to increased customer adoption of our cloud-based solutions from our Workspace offerings and an increase from on-premise licensing of our Networking offerings, primarily pooled capacity. Our Product and license revenue decreased primarily due to lower sales of our perpetual Networking products and Workspace solutions as customers continue to shift to our subscription offerings. The decrease in Support and services revenue was not significant. We currently expect total revenue to increase when comparing the first quarter of 2020 to the first quarter of 2019. In addition, when comparing the 2020 fiscal year to the 2019 fiscal year, we currently expect total revenue to increase. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to an increase in costs related to providing our subscription offerings. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, as we have realigned the organization to better support our subscription model transition and have made additional investments in product and engineering as well as customer facing resources. The increase in diluted net income per share was primarily due to a decrease in income tax expense as a result of a benefit related to Swiss tax reform and a decrease in the number of weighted average shares outstanding due to share repurchases, partially offset by a decrease in operating income. Both Subscription and SaaS ARR increased due to the acceleration of subscription sales.

2018 Business Combinations 

Sapho, Inc.

On November 13, 2018, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding securities of Sapho, Inc. (“Sapho”), whose technology is intended to advance our development of the intelligent workspace. The acquired technology enables efficient workstyles by creating a unified and customizable notification experience for business applications. The total cash consideration for this transaction was $182.7 million, net of $3.7 million cash acquired. Transaction costs associated with the acquisition were not significant. 

Cedexis, Inc.

On February 6, 2018, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding securities of Cedexis, Inc. (“Cedexis”) whose solution is a real-time data driven service for dynamically optimizing the flow of traffic across public clouds and data centers that provides a dynamic and reliable way to route and manage Internet performance for customers moving towards hybrid and multi-cloud deployments. The total cash consideration for this transaction was $66.0 million, net of $6.0 million cash acquired. Transaction costs associated with the acquisition were not significant. During the third quarter of 2019, we tested certain intangible assets for recoverability due to changes in facts and circumstances associated with the shift in strategic focus and reduced profitability expectations. As a result, we impaired a portion of the carrying value of the intangible assets related to this acquisition in the third quarter of 2019. See Note 2 for more information on the impairment.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and these estimates form the basis for our judgments concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We periodically evaluate these estimates and judgments based on available information and experience. Actual results could differ from our estimates under different assumptions and conditions. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted. 

33

We believe that the accounting policies described below are critical to understanding our business, results of operations and financial condition because they involve more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development, selection and application of our critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and our independent auditors, and our Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 

Revenue Recognition

We generate all of our revenues from contracts with customers. At contract inception, we assess the solutions or services, or bundles of solutions and services, obligated in the contract with a customer to identify each performance obligation within the contract, and then evaluate whether the performance obligations are capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of the contract. Solutions and services that are not both capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of the contract are combined and treated as a single performance obligation in determining the allocation and recognition of revenue. 

The standalone selling price is the price at which we would sell a promised product or service separately to the customer. For the majority of our software licenses and hardware, CSP and on-premise subscription software licenses, we use the observable price in transactions with multiple performance obligations. For the majority of our support and services, and cloud-hosted subscription offerings, we use the observable price when we sell that support and service and cloud-hosted subscription separately to similar customers. If the standalone selling price for a performance obligation is not directly observable, we estimate it. We estimate the standalone selling price by taking into consideration market conditions, economics of the offering and customers’ behavior. We maximize the use of observable inputs and apply estimation methods consistently in similar circumstances. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis.

Revenues are recognized when control of the promised products or services are transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for further information on our revenue recognition.

Valuation and Classification of Investments

The authoritative guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). Our available-for-sale debt investments are measured to fair value on a recurring basis. In addition, we hold direct investments in privately-held companies which are accounted for at cost, less impairment plus or minus adjustments resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. These investments are periodically reviewed for impairment and when indicators of impairment exist, are measured to fair value as appropriate on a non-recurring basis. We also hold equity interests in certain private equity funds which are accounted for under the net asset value practical expedient. The net asset value of these investments is determined using quarterly capital statements from the funds which are based on our contributions to the funds, allocation of profit and loss and changes in fair value of the underlying fund investments. In determining the fair value of our investments, we are sometimes required to use various alternative valuation techniques. The authoritative guidance establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available.

The authoritative guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: Level 1, observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, Level 2, inputs, other than quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly, and Level 3, unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which requires us to develop our own assumptions. Observable inputs are those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability that are based on market data obtained from independent sources, such as market quoted prices. When Level 1 observable inputs for our investments are not available to determine their fair value, we must then use other inputs which may include indicative pricing for securities from the same issuer with similar terms, yield curve information, benchmark data, prepayment speeds and credit quality or unobservable inputs that reflect our 

34

estimates of the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the investments based on the best information available in the circumstances. When valuation techniques, other than those described as Level 1 are utilized, management must make estimations and judgments in determining the fair value for its investments. The degree to which management’s estimation and judgment is required is generally dependent upon the market pricing available for the investments, the availability of observable inputs, the frequency of trading in the investments and the investment’s complexity. If we make different judgments regarding unobservable inputs, we could potentially reach different conclusions regarding the fair value of our investments.

After we have determined the fair value of our investments, for those that are in an unrealized loss position, we must then determine if the investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. We review our investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment and if different judgments are used, the classification of the losses related to our investments could differ. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the carrying value of an available-for-sale debt investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than carrying value, our intent to retain or sell the investment, and whether it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell the investment before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, which may not be until maturity. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, including industry and sector performance, rating agency actions and changes in credit default swap levels. 

For our investments in privately-held companies accounted for at cost, less impairment plus or minus adjustments resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or a similar investment of the same issuer, we periodically review for impairment and observable price changes on a quarterly basis, and adjust the carrying value accordingly. See Notes 5 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information on our investments.

Intangible Assets

We have product related technology assets and other intangible assets from acquisitions and other third party agreements. We allocate the purchase price of intangible assets acquired through third party agreements based on their estimated relative fair values. We allocate a portion of the purchase price of acquired companies to the product related technology assets and other intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. We typically engage third party appraisal firms to assist us in determining the fair values and useful lives of product related technology assets and other intangible assets acquired. Such valuations and useful life determinations require us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in determining the fair value and useful lives of the product related technology assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows earned from the product related technology and discount rates applied in determining the present value of those cash flows. Critical estimates in valuing certain other intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer contracts, customer retention rates, customer lists, distribution agreements, patents, brand awareness and market position, as well as discount rates. 

Management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. 

We monitor acquired intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis by reviewing for indicators of impairment. If an indicator exists, we compare the estimated net realizable value to the carrying value of the intangible asset as of the reporting period. The recoverability of the intangible assets is primarily dependent upon our ability to commercialize solutions utilizing the acquired technologies, retain existing customers and customer contracts, and maintain brand awareness. The estimated net realizable value of the acquired intangible assets is based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such intangible assets. Our assumptions about future revenues and expenses require significant judgment associated with the forecast of the performance of our solutions, customer retention rates and ability to secure and maintain our market position. Actual revenues and costs could vary significantly from these forecasted amounts. If these solutions are not ultimately accepted by our customers and distributors, and there is no alternative future use for the technology; or if we fail to retain acquired customers or successfully market acquired brands, we could determine that some or all of the remaining $108.5 million carrying value of our acquired intangible assets is impaired. In the event of impairment, we would record an impairment charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Goodwill

The excess of the fair value of the purchase price over the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities from our acquisitions is recorded as goodwill. At December 31, 2019, we had $1.80 billion in goodwill related to our acquisitions under 

35

one reportable unit. Our revenues are derived from sales of our Workspace solutions and Networking products, and related support. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for additional information regarding our reportable segment. 

We account for goodwill in accordance with FASB’s authoritative guidance, which requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to an annual impairment test. We complete our goodwill and certain intangible assets impairment tests on an annual basis, during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that an impairment in the value of goodwill and certain intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet may exist. 

In the fourth quarter of 2019, we performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether further quantitative impairment testing for goodwill and certain intangible assets is necessary, and we refer to this assessment as the Qualitative Screen. In performing the Qualitative Screen, we are required to make assumptions and judgments including but not limited to the following: the evaluation of macroeconomic conditions as related to our business, industry and market trends, and the overall future financial performance of our reporting unit and future opportunities in the markets in which it operates. If after performing the Qualitative Screen impairment indicators are present, we would perform a quantitative impairment test to estimate the fair value of goodwill and certain intangible assets. In doing so, we would estimate future revenue, consider market factors and estimate our future cash flows. Based on these key assumptions, judgments and estimates, we determine whether we need to record an impairment charge to reduce the value of the goodwill and certain intangible assets carried on our balance sheet to their estimated fair value. Assumptions, judgments and estimates about future values are complex and often subjective and can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy or our internal forecasts. Although we believe the assumptions, judgments and estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions, judgments and estimates could materially affect our results of operations. As a result of the Qualitative Screen, no further quantitative impairment test was deemed necessary. There was no impairment of goodwill as a result of the annual impairment tests completed during the fourth quarters of 2019 and 2018. 

Income Taxes 

We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2019, we had $359.2 million in net deferred tax assets. The authoritative guidance requires a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets reported if, based on the weight of the evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We review deferred tax assets periodically for recoverability and make estimates and judgments regarding the expected geographic sources of taxable income and gains from investments, as well as tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. At December 31, 2019, we determined that a $128.4 million valuation allowance relating to deferred tax assets for net operating losses and tax credits was necessary. If the estimates and assumptions used in our determination change in the future, we could be required to revise our estimates of the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and adjust our provisions for additional income taxes.

In the ordinary course of global business, there are transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain; thus judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. We provide for income taxes on transactions based on our estimate of the probable liability. We adjust our provision as appropriate for changes that impact our underlying judgments. Changes that impact provision estimates include such items as jurisdictional interpretations on tax filing positions based on the results of tax audits and general tax authority rulings. Due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

The 2017 Cuts and Jobs Act ("2017 Tax Act") significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, in part but not limited to: reducing the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on certain un-repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, modifying executive compensation deduction limitations, and repealing the deduction for domestic production activities. The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines. In response, on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. We completed the accounting for the tax effects of all of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act within the required measurement period.

36

On May 19, 2019, Swiss voters approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“TRAF”), which provides for broad changes to federal and cantonal taxation in Switzerland effective January 1, 2020. The TRAF requires the abolishment of certain favorable tax regimes, provides for certain transitional relief, and directs the cantons to implement certain mandatory measures while other provisions are at the discretion of the canton. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the cantonal authority provided guidance for the cantonal tax implications of the TRAF. As a result of the TRAF and the accompanying guidance from the Swiss taxing authorities, we recorded a deferred tax asset and related tax benefits of $145.6 million and $99.9 million attributable to the cantonal and federal impact of the TRAF, respectively. We also recorded a valuation allowance of $33.5 million to reduce the cantonal deferred tax asset as it is not more likely than not the cantonal deferred tax asset will be fully realized. The income tax impact of the TRAF may be subject to change due to the issuance of further legislative guidance from the Swiss taxing authorities. 

37

Results of Operations

In this section, we discuss the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the year ended December 31, 2017, please refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 which was filed with the SEC on February 15, 2019.

The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of income data and presentation of that data as a percentage of change from year-to-year (in thousands other than percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Not meaningful 

Revenues

Net revenues include Subscription, Product and license and Support and services revenues. 

Subscription revenue relates to fees which are generally recognized ratably over the contractual term. Our subscription revenue includes SaaS, which primarily consists of subscriptions delivered via a cloud hosted service whereby the customer does not take possession of the software and hybrid subscription offerings and the related support; and non-SaaS, which consists primarily of on-premise licensing, hybrid subscription offerings, CSP services and the related support. Our hybrid subscription offerings are allocated between SaaS and non-SaaS, which are generally recognized at a point in time. In addition, 

38

our CSP program provides subscription-based services in which the CSP partners host software services to their end users. The fees from the CSP program are recognized based on usage and as the CSP services are provided to their end users.

Product and license revenue primarily represents fees related to the perpetual licensing of the following major solutions:

•Workspace is primarily comprised of our Application Virtualization solutions, which include Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops, our unified endpoint management solutions, which include Citrix Endpoint Management, Citrix Content Collaboration, and Citrix Workspace; and

•Networking products, which primarily include Citrix ADC and Citrix SD-WAN.

We offer incentive programs to our VADs and VARs to stimulate demand for our solutions. Product and license and Subscription revenues associated with these programs are partially offset by these incentives to our VADs and VARs. 

Support and services revenue consists of maintenance and support fees primarily related to our perpetual offerings and include the following:

•Customer Success Services, which gives customers a choice of tiered support offerings that combine the elements of product version upgrades, guidance, enablement, support and proactive monitoring to help our customers and our partners fully realize their business goals. Fees associated with this offering are recognized ratably over the term of the contract; and

•Hardware Maintenance fees for our perpetual Networking products, which include technical support and hardware and software maintenance, are recognized ratably over the contract term; and

•Fees from consulting services related to the implementation of our solutions, which are recognized as the services are provided; and 

•Fees from product training and certification, which are recognized as the services are provided.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Subscription

Subscription revenue increased during 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to increased customer adoption of our cloud-based solutions from our Workspace offerings of $114.7 million and an increase from on-premise licensing of our Networking offerings of $38.1 million, primarily pooled capacity. We currently expect our Subscription revenue to increase when comparing the first quarter of 2020 to the first quarter of 2019 and the fiscal year 2020 to the fiscal year 2019 due to our continued transition to a subscription-based business model.

Product and license

Product and license revenue decreased during 2019 when compared to 2018 primarily due to lower sales of our perpetual Networking products of $107.9 million and lower sales of our perpetual Workspace solutions of $43.1 million as customers continue to shift to our subscription offerings. We currently expect Product and license revenue to decrease when comparing the first quarter of 2020 to the first quarter of 2019 and the fiscal year 2020 to the fiscal year 2019 due to our continued transition to a subscription-based business model. 

39

Support and services

Support and services revenue remained consistent when comparing 2019 to 2018. We currently expect Support and services revenue to decrease when comparing the first quarter of 2020 to the first quarter of 2019 and the fiscal year 2020 to the fiscal year 2019 as new purchases within our subscription offerings continue to increase. 

Deferred Revenue, Unbilled Revenue and Backlog

Deferred revenue is primarily comprised of Support and services revenue from maintenance fees, which include software and hardware maintenance, technical support related to our perpetual offerings and services revenue related to our consulting contracts. Deferred revenue also includes Subscription revenue from our Content Collaboration and cloud-based subscription offerings.

Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition and is recognized in our consolidated balance sheets and statements of income as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Unbilled revenue primarily represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in accounts receivable or deferred revenue within our consolidated financial statements. Deferred revenue and unbilled revenue are influenced by several factors, including new business seasonality within the year, the specific timing, size and duration of customer subscription agreements, annual billing cycles of subscription agreements, and invoice timing. Fluctuations in unbilled revenue may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and the related revenue associated with these contractual commitments.

The following table presents the amounts of deferred and unbilled revenue (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Deferred revenues decreased approximately $38.8 million as of December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 primarily due to a decrease in maintenance and support of $176.0 million, mostly from Workspace perpetual software maintenance of $66.7 million and Networking perpetual hardware maintenance of $58.9 million, partially offset by an increase from subscription of $146.0 million, mostly due to increased customer adoption of our cloud-based subscription offerings. Unbilled revenue increased primarily due to an increase in multi-year subscription agreements as a result of an increase in customer adoption of our cloud-based subscription offerings. 

While it is generally our practice to promptly ship our products upon receipt of properly finalized orders, at any given time, we have confirmed product license orders that have not shipped and are unfulfilled. Backlog includes the aggregate amounts we expect to recognize as point in time revenue in the following quarter associated with contractually committed amounts for on-premise subscription software licenses, as well as confirmed product license orders that have not shipped and are unfulfilled. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the amount of backlog was not material. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance.

International Revenues

International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for 48.2% and 47.0% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The change in our international revenues as a percentage of our net revenues is not significant. For detailed information on international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.

40

Cost of Net Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of subscription, support and services revenues consists primarily of compensation and other personnel-related costs of providing technical support, consulting and cloud capacity costs, as well as the costs related to providing our offerings delivered via the cloud. Cost of product and license revenues consists primarily of hardware, shipping expense, royalties, product media and duplication, manuals and packaging materials. Also included in cost of net revenues is amortization and impairment of product related intangible assets.

Cost of subscription, support and services revenues increased during 2019 when compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in costs related to providing our subscription offerings. We currently expect cost of subscription, support and services revenues to increase when comparing the first quarter of 2020 to the first quarter of 2019 and the fiscal year 2020 to the fiscal year 2019, consistent with the expected increases in Subscription revenue as discussed above.

Cost of product and license revenues decreased during 2019 when compared to 2018 primarily due to lower overall sales of our perpetual Networking products, which contain hardware components that have a higher cost than our software products. We currently expect cost of product and license revenues to decrease when comparing the first quarter of 2020 to the first quarter of 2019 and the fiscal year 2020 to the fiscal year 2019.

Amortization and impairment of product related intangible assets increased during 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to the impairments of certain acquired intangible assets in 2019. 

Gross Margin

Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 84.6% for 2019 and 85.4% for 2018. Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased during 2019 as compared to 2018 due to an increase in costs related to providing our subscription offerings. 

Operating Expenses

Foreign Currency Impact on Operating Expenses

The functional currency for all of our wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. A substantial majority of our overseas operating expenses and capital purchasing activities are transacted in local currencies and are therefore subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to minimize the impact on our operating results, we generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks up to 12 months in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses. Generally, when the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher, and these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gains realized from our hedging contracts. Conversely, if the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower. These lower expenses will in turn be partially offset by the losses incurred from our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the time frame for which we hedge our risk.

Research and Development Expenses 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related costs and facility and equipment costs directly related to our research and development activities. We expensed substantially all development costs included in the research and development of our products. 

41

Research and development expenses increased during 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation of $38.4 million and an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs of $25.8 million due to a net increase in headcount. 

Sales, Marketing and Services Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales, marketing and services expenses consist primarily of personnel related costs, including sales commissions, pre-sales support, the costs of marketing programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as brand development, advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs and costs related to our facilities, equipment, information systems and pre-sale demonstration related cloud capacity costs that are directly related to our sales, marketing and services activities.

Sales, marketing and services expenses increased during 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation of $23.2 million, an increase in variable compensation of $20.4 million and an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs of $12.7 million due to a net increase in sales and services headcount.

General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel related costs and expenses related to outside consultants assisting with information systems, as well as accounting and legal fees.

General and administrative expenses increased during 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation of $10.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in facilities costs of $5.7 million. 

Restructuring Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we incurred costs of $22.2 million and $2.5 million, respectively, related to initiatives intended to accelerate the transformation to a cloud-based subscription business, increase strategic focus, and improve operational efficiency. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred costs of $19.6 million related to employee severance and related costs and $2.7 million related to the consolidation of leased facilities. 

In connection with our restructuring initiatives, we had previously vacated or consolidated properties and subsequently reassessed our obligations on non-cancelable leases. The fair value estimate of these non-cancelable leases was based on the contractual lease costs over the remaining term, partially offset by estimated future sublease rental income. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we incurred costs of $14.2 million related to the consolidation of leased facilities.

For more information regarding our restructuring, see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

2020 Operating Expense Outlook

When comparing the first quarter of 2020 to the fourth quarter of 2019, we currently expect operating expenses to increase with respect to research and development expenses as we continue to invest in innovation capacity. We also expect general and administrative expenses and sales, marketing and services expenses to remain consistent.

42

Interest income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income primarily consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Interest income decreased during 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to lower investment balances as a result of the repayment of the outstanding principal balance of our 0.500% Convertible Notes due April 15, 2019 (the "Convertible Notes") on April 15, 2019 and lower yields on investments as a result of a decrease in interest rates. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for investment information.

Interest Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense primarily consists of interest paid on our Convertible Notes, 2027 Notes and credit facility. When comparing 2019 and 2018, the decrease is primarily due to the repayment of the outstanding principal balance of our Convertible Notes on April 15, 2019. When comparing fiscal year 2020 to fiscal year 2019, we currently expect interest expense to increase as a result of the Term Loan Credit Agreement that we entered into in January 2020. For more information regarding our debt, see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.

Other income (expense), net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other income (expense), net is primarily comprised of gains (losses) from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions, sublease income, realized losses related to changes in the fair value of our investments that have a decline in fair value considered other-than-temporary and recognized gains (losses) related to our investments, which was not material for all periods presented.

The change in Other income (expense), net when comparing 2019 to 2018 is primarily driven by a decrease in realized losses in our available-for-sale investment portfolio of $6.6 million, mostly due to a decline in fair value considered other-than-temporary recorded in 2018 and an increase in net gains on remeasurement and settlement of foreign currency transactions of $1.4 million.

Income Taxes

We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. We maintain certain strategic management and operational activities in overseas subsidiaries and our foreign earnings are taxed at rates that are generally lower than in the United States. 

The 2017 Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, in part but not limited to: reducing the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on certain un-repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, modifying executive compensation deduction limitations, and repealing the deduction for domestic production activities. The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines. In response, on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. We completed the accounting for the tax effects of all of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act within the required measurement period.

43

On May 19, 2019, Swiss voters approved the TRAF, which provides for broad changes to federal and cantonal taxation in Switzerland effective January 1, 2020. The TRAF requires the abolishment of certain favorable tax regimes, provides for certain transitional relief, and directs the cantons to implement certain mandatory measures while other provisions are at the discretion of the canton. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the cantonal authority provided guidance for the cantonal tax implications of the TRAF. As a result of the TRAF and the accompanying guidance from the Swiss taxing authorities, we recorded a deferred tax asset and related tax benefits of $145.6 million and $99.9 million attributable to the cantonal and federal impact of the TRAF, respectively. We also recorded a valuation allowance of $33.5 million to reduce the cantonal deferred tax asset as it is not more likely than not the cantonal deferred tax asset will be fully realized. The income tax impact of the TRAF may be subject to change due to the issuance of further legislative guidance from the Swiss taxing authorities. 

We are subject to tax in the U.S. and in multiple foreign tax jurisdictions. Our U.S. liquidity needs are currently satisfied using cash flows generated from our U.S. operations, borrowings, or both. We also utilize a variety of tax planning strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in locations in which it is needed. Prior to 2017, we did not recognize a deferred tax liability related to undistributed foreign earnings of our subsidiaries because such earnings were considered to be indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations, or were remitted substantially free of U.S. tax. Under the 2017 Tax Act, all foreign earnings are now subject to U.S. taxation. As a result, we expect to repatriate a substantial portion of our foreign earnings over time, to the extent that the foreign earnings are not restricted by local laws or result in significant incremental costs associated with repatriating the foreign earnings.

Our effective tax rate was approximately (33.8)% for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease in the effective tax rate when comparing the year ended December 31, 2019 to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to tax items unique to each period including major changes to the tax regime in Switzerland and significant changes related to U.S. tax reform, as well as a change in the combination of income between our U.S. and foreign operations. Unique tax items include tax benefits of $112.1 million and $99.9 million attributable to the cantonal and federal impact of the TRAF, respectively, and a tax benefit of $20.1 million attributable to the 2015 U.S. federal income tax return statute of limitations closing. The results from the year ended December 31, 2018, also included unique tax items due to U.S. tax reform legislative changes including a tax benefit of $21.9 million to true up the provisional transition tax on deemed repatriation of foreign income and a tax benefit of $4.4 million to true up the provisional benefit for the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities because of the maximum U.S. federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%. 

As of December 31, 2019, our net unrecognized tax benefits totaled approximately $84.5 million compared to $89.9 million as of December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2019, $57.1 million included in the balance for tax positions would affect the annual effective tax rate if recognized. As of December 31, 2019, we have accrued $3.2 million for the payment of interest related to uncertain tax positions. 

We and one or more of our subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income taxes in the United States, as well as income taxes of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. We are not currently under examination by the United States Internal Revenue Service. With few exceptions, we are generally not subject to examination for state and local income tax, or in non-U.S. jurisdictions by tax authorities for years prior to 2016. 

As of December 31, 2019, we had $359.2 million in net deferred tax assets. The authoritative guidance requires a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets reported if, based on the weight of the evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We review deferred tax assets periodically for recoverability and make estimates and judgments regarding the expected geographic sources of taxable income and gains from investments, as well as tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. As of December 31, 2019, we determined that a $128.4 million valuation allowance relating to deferred tax assets for net operating losses, tax credits, the cantonal deferred tax asset recorded due to the TRAF, and amortization was necessary. If the estimates and assumptions used in our determination change in the future, we could be required to revise our estimates of the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and adjust our provisions for additional income taxes.

On July 24, 2018, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the U.S. Tax Court’s unanimous decision in Altera v. Commissioner, where the Tax Court held the Treasury regulation requiring participants in a qualified cost sharing arrangement share stock-based compensation costs to be invalid. On August 7, 2018, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, on its own motion, withdrew its July 24, 2018 opinion to allow time for a reconstituted panel to confer. Given the increased uncertainty as to the Ninth Circuit panel's eventual ruling and the impact it will have on the Internal Revenue Service’s ability to challenge the technical merits of our position, we accrued amounts for this uncertain tax position as of the year ended December 31, 2018.

44

On June 7, 2019, a reconstituted panel issued a new opinion which again reversed the Tax Court's holding in Altera v. Commissioner and upheld a 2003 regulation that requires participants in a cost-sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The Ninth Circuit panel concluded that the 2003 regulations were valid under the Administrative Procedure Act. Since we previously accrued amounts for this uncertain tax position, there were no changes to our position or treatment of our cost-sharing arrangements in the current period. On July 22, 2019, Altera Corp. filed an appeal with the Ninth Circuit to rehear this case, which is ongoing. Therefore, the case's final disposition may result in a benefit for us in the future if the case is reversed.

In the ordinary course of global business, there are transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain; thus judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. We provide for income taxes on transactions based on our estimate of the probable liability. We adjust our provision as appropriate for changes that impact our underlying judgments. Changes that impact provision estimates include such items as jurisdictional interpretations on tax filing positions based on the results of tax audits and general tax authority rulings. Due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

During 2019, we generated continuing operating cash flows of $783.1 million. These operating cash flows related primarily to net income from continuing operations of $681.8 million, adjusted for, among other things, non-cash charges, stock-based compensation expense of $278.9 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $139.3 million and amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets of $50.2 million. Partially offsetting these changes was a deferred income tax benefit of $244.9 million and a change in operating assets and liabilities of $190.5 million, net of effects of acquisitions. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily a result of an outflow in other assets of $74.2 million mostly due to an increase in capitalized commissions from higher subscription sales, an outflow in accounts receivable of $39.0 million mostly due to an increase in sales and changes in deferred revenue of $38.8 million. Our continuing operations investing activities provided $1.04 billion of cash consisting primarily of net proceeds from investments of $1.10 billion, partially offset by cash paid for the purchase of property and equipment of $63.5 million. Our continuing operations financing activities used cash of $1.89 billion, primarily for the cash repayment of the outstanding principal balance of our Convertible Notes of $1.16 billion, stock repurchases of $453.9 million, repayment of borrowings under our credit facility of $200.0 million, cash dividends paid on common stock of $182.9 million and cash paid for tax withholding on vested stock awards of $89.2 million. These outflows are partially offset by borrowings from our credit facility of $200.0 million.

During 2018, we generated continuing operating cash flows of $1.04 billion. These operating cash flows related primarily to net income from continuing operations of $575.7 million, adjusted for, among other things, non-cash charges, stock-based compensation expense of $203.6 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $141.9 million and amortization of debt discount and transaction costs of $39.1 million. Also contributing to these cash inflows was a change in operating assets and liabilities of $30.3 million, net of effects of acquisitions. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily a result of changes in deferred revenue of $69.5 million, accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $37.0 million mostly due to employee-related accruals, and changes in net accounts receivable of $18.7 million driven by an increase in collections from higher sales. These inflows were partially offset by an outflow in net income taxes of $57.0 million due to a decrease in income taxes payable and an increase in prepaid taxes, and changes in other assets of $33.6 million primarily due to an increase in capitalized commissions as a result of the new revenue standard. Our continuing operations investing activities provided $132.2 million of cash consisting primarily of net proceeds from investments of $456.9 million, partially offset by cash paid for acquisitions of $248.9 million and cash paid for the purchase of property and equipment of $69.4 million. Our continuing operations financing activities used cash of $1.66 billion, primarily due to stock repurchases of $1.26 billion, payments on early redemptions of convertible notes of $273.0 million, cash paid for tax withholding on vested stock awards of $71.6 million, and cash dividends paid on common stock of $46.8 million. 

Term Loan Credit Agreement

On January 21, 2020, we entered into the Term Loan Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other lenders party thereto from time to time (collectively, the “Lenders”). The Term Loan Credit Agreement provides us with facilities to borrow term loans on an unsecured basis in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.00 billion, consisting of (i) a $500.0 million 364-day term loan facility (the “364-day Term Loan”), and (ii) a $500.0 million 3-year term loan facility (the “3-year Term Loan”), in each case in a single borrowing, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Term Loan Credit Agreement. We borrowed $1.00 billion under the term loans to enter into an aggregate $1.00 billion accelerated share repurchase transaction. See Notes 9 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual 

45

Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for additional details on the accelerated share repurchase and Term Loan Credit Agreement.  

Senior Notes

On November 15, 2017, we issued $750.0 million of the 2027 Notes. The 2027 Notes accrue interest at a rate of 4.5% per annum. Interest on the 2027 Notes is due semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning on June 1, 2018. The net proceeds from this offering were approximately $741.0 million, after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated offering expenses payable by us. Net proceeds from this offering were used to repurchase shares of our common stock through an ASR transaction which we entered into with the ASR counterparty on November 13, 2017. The 2027 Notes will mature on December 1, 2027, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased in accordance with their terms prior to such date. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for additional details on the 2027 Notes. 

Credit Facility

On November 26, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with a group of financial institutions, which amends and restates the Company’s Credit Agreement, dated January 7, 2015. The Credit Agreement provides for a five year unsecured revolving credit facility in the aggregate amount of $250.0 million, subject to continued covenant compliance. We may elect to increase the revolving credit facility by up to $250.0 million if existing or new lenders provide additional revolving commitments in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. The proceeds of borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we borrowed and repaid $200.0 million under the credit facility. As of December 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for additional details on the Credit Agreement. 

Convertible Senior Notes 

During 2014, we completed a private placement of approximately $1.44 billion principal amount of 0.500% Convertible Notes due 2019. As of October 15, 2018, we had received conversion notices from noteholders with respect to $273.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes requesting conversion as a result of the sales price condition having been met during the second and third quarter of 2018. In accordance with the terms of the Convertible Notes, in the fourth quarter of 2018, we made cash payments of this aggregate principal amount and delivered 1.3 million newly issued shares of our common stock in respect of the remainder of our conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes being converted, in full satisfaction of such converted notes. We received shares of our common stock under the Bond Hedges that offset the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. In addition, on or after October 15, 2018 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the April 15, 2019 maturity date, holders of the Convertible Notes had the right to convert their notes at any time, regardless of whether the sales price condition was met. All Convertible Notes were converted by their beneficial owners prior to their maturity on April 15, 2019. In accordance with the terms of the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, on April 15, 2019, we paid $1.16 billion in the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes and delivered 4.9 million newly issued shares of our common stock in respect of the remainder of our conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes being converted, in full satisfaction of such converted notes. We received shares of our common stock under the Bond Hedges that offset the issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for additional details on our Convertible Notes and Bond Hedges. 

Historically, significant portions of our cash inflows were generated by our operations. We currently expect this trend to continue in 2020. We believe that our existing cash and investments together with cash flows expected from operations will be sufficient to meet expected operating and capital expenditure requirements and service our debt obligations for the next 12 months. We continue to search for suitable acquisition candidates and could acquire or make investments in companies we believe are related to our strategic objectives. We could from time to time continue to seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities for larger acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.

46

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and investments at December 31, 2019 as compared to December 31, 2018, is primarily due to the cash repayment of the outstanding principal amount of our Convertible Notes of $1.16 billion, cash paid for stock repurchases of $453.9 million, repayment of borrowings under our credit facility of $200.0 million, cash dividends paid on common stock of $182.9 million, cash paid for tax withholding on vested stock awards of $89.2 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $63.5 million. These decreases are partially offset by cash provided by our operating activities of $783.1 million and borrowings from our credit facility of $200.0 million. As of December 31, 2019, $336.2 million of the $605.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the 2017 Tax Act, the cash, cash equivalents and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries can be repatriated without incurring any additional U.S. federal tax. Upon repatriation of these funds, we could be subject to foreign and U.S. state income taxes, as well as additional foreign withholding taxes. The amount of taxes due is dependent on the amount and manner of the repatriation, as well as the locations from which the funds are repatriated and received. We generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in investment grade, highly liquid securities to allow for flexibility in the event of immediate cash needs. Our short-term and long-term investments primarily consist of interest-bearing securities.

Stock Repurchase Program

Our Board of Directors authorized an ongoing stock repurchase program, of which $600.0 million was approved in October 2019 and an additional $1.00 billion was approved in January 2020. We may use the approved dollar authority to repurchase stock at any time until the approved amounts are exhausted. The objective of the stock repurchase program is to improve stockholders’ returns. At December 31, 2019, $914.0 million was available to repurchase common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase program. All shares repurchased are recorded as treasury stock. A portion of the funds used to repurchase stock over the course of the program was provided by net proceeds from the Convertible Notes and 2027 Notes offerings, as well as proceeds from employee stock awards and the related tax benefit. We are authorized to make purchases of our common stock using general corporate funds through open market purchases, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in privately negotiated transactions.

In November 2017, we purchased $750.0 million of shares of our common stock through the ASR agreement with the ASR counterparty. We paid $750.0 million to the ASR counterparty under the ASR agreement and received approximately 7.1 million shares of our common stock from the ASR counterparty, which represented 80 percent of the value of the shares to be repurchased pursuant to the ASR agreement. The total number of shares of common stock that we repurchased under the ASR agreement was based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of our common stock during the term of the ASR agreement, less a discount. Final settlement of the ASR agreement was completed in January 2018 and we received delivery of an additional 1.4 million shares of our common stock. 

In February 2018, we entered into an ASR transaction with a counterparty to pay an aggregate of $750.0 million in exchange for the delivery of approximately 6.5 million shares of our common stock based on current market prices. The purchase price per share under the ASR was based on the volume-weighted average price of our common stock during the term of the ASR, less a discount. The ASR was entered into pursuant to our existing share repurchase program. Final settlement of the ASR agreement was completed in April 2018 and we received delivery of an additional 1.6 million shares of our common stock.

During the year ended December 31, 2019, we expended $453.9 million on open market purchases under the stock repurchase program, repurchasing 4,533,688 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $100.11. 

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we expended $511.2 million on open market purchases under the stock repurchase program, repurchasing 4,730,542 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $108.05. 

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we expended $575.0 million on open market purchases under the stock repurchase program, repurchasing 7,384,368 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $77.86. 

Shares for Tax Withholding

During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, we withheld 882,078 shares, 739,522 shares and 974,501 shares, respectively, from equity awards that vested. Amounts withheld to satisfy minimum tax withholding obligations that 

47

arose on the vesting of equity awards was $89.2 million for 2019, $71.6 million for 2018 and $80.0 million for 2017. These shares are reflected as treasury stock in our consolidated balance sheets included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.

Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2019 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)During the fourth quarter of 2017, we completed the issuance of $750.0 million principal amount of 4.5% Senior Notes due 2027. The amount above represents the balance to be repaid. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for detailed information on the 2027 Notes offering and the transactions related thereto. 

(2)Purchase obligations represent non-cancelable commitments to purchase inventory ordered before year-end 2019 of approximately $10.8 million and a contingent obligation to purchase inventory of approximately $15.6 million. It also includes minimum purchase commitments for our use of certain cloud services with two third-party providers of $50.0 million. 

(3)Represents transition tax payable on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income incurred as a result of the 2017 Tax Act. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for further information.

(4)Total contractual obligations do not include agreements where our commitment is variable in nature or where cancellations without payment provisions exist and excludes $84.5 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions recorded in accordance with authoritative guidance, because we could not make reasonably reliable estimates of the period or amount of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for further information.

As of December 31, 2019, we did not have any individually material finance lease obligations or other material long-term commitments reflected on our consolidated balance sheets.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any special purpose entities or off-balance sheet financing arrangements.

48

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK