Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our business and results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and notes, as well as the selected historical consolidated financial data included elsewhere in this report.

Certain statements in our discussion below are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We caution that a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied or expressed by the forward-looking statements. Please see “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further details about these statements.

Overview

We are an independent oil and natural gas company engaged in the acquisition, development, exploration and production of oil and natural gas properties. We are one of the largest operators in the Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico. Concho’s legacy in the Permian Basin provides us a deep understanding of operating and geological trends, and we are actively developing our resource base utilizing large-scale development projects, which include long-lateral wells and multi-well pad locations, throughout our operating areas. Oil comprised 62 percent of our 1,002 MMBoe of estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2019 and 63 percent of our 121 MMBoe of production for 2019. We seek to operate the wells in which we own an interest, and we operated wells that accounted for 93 percent of our proved developed producing reserves and 75 percent of our 5,981 gross wells at December 31, 2019. By controlling operations, we are able to more effectively manage the development strategy as well as the cost and timing of exploration and development of our properties.

38
Financial and Operating Performance

Our financial and operating performance for 2019 included the following highlights:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•$890 million of impairments of long-lived assets during 2019;

•$282 million of impairments of goodwill during 2019;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

partially offset by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39
Commodity Prices

Our results of operations are heavily influenced by commodity prices. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a description of the factors that may impact future commodity prices, including the price of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids.

Although we cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect future commodity prices, or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that we produce will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. From time to time, we expect that we may hedge a portion of our commodity price risk to mitigate the impact of price volatility on our business. See Notes 9 and 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding our commodity derivative positions at December 31, 2019 and additional derivative contracts entered into subsequent to December 31, 2019, respectively.

The following table sets forth the average NYMEX oil and natural gas prices for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, as well as the high and low NYMEX prices for the same periods:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Further, the NYMEX oil price and NYMEX natural gas price reached highs and lows of $63.27 and $49.57 per Bbl and $2.20 and $1.77 per MMBtu, respectively, during the period from January 1, 2020 to February 14, 2020. At February 14, 2020, the NYMEX oil price and NYMEX natural gas price were $52.05 per Bbl and $1.84 per MMBtu, respectively.

Historically, and during the year ended December 31, 2019, we derived a significant portion of our total natural gas revenues from the value of the natural gas liquids contained in our natural gas, with the remaining portion coming from the value of the dry natural gas residue. The average Mont Belvieu price for a blended barrel of natural gas liquids was $20.19 per Bbl, $29.94 per Bbl and $25.06 per Bbl during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

Potential cost inflation. Oilfield service and supply costs are also subject to supply and demand dynamics. As companies expand their drilling and development activities, the demand for third-party oilfield services and suppliers may also increase. As such, when commodity prices begin to trend upward, we expect demand for oilfield services and supplies to grow, and the costs of drilling, equipping and operating our wells and infrastructure could increase. 

40
Recent Events

The following are significant recent developments since our last quarterly report on Form 10-Q was filed on October 30, 2019:

2020 capital budget. In February 2020, our board of directors approved our 2020 capital budget of up to $2.9 billion. We expect to spend between $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion on drilling and completion activity.

Dividends. On February 18, 2020, our board of directors approved a cash dividend of $0.20 per share for the first quarter of 2020 that is expected to be paid on March 27, 2020 to stockholders of record as of February 28, 2020. The total cash dividend paid to our stockholders during 2019 was $100 million.

New Mexico Shelf divestiture. In November 2019, we closed on our New Mexico Shelf asset divestiture and received cash proceeds of $837 million, subject to post-closing adjustments. Refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding the New Mexico Shelf divestiture. We used the proceeds from this divestiture to repay outstanding borrowings under our Credit Facility and initiate the share repurchase program, as discussed below.

Share repurchase program. In September 2019, we announced that our board of directors authorized the initiation of a share repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of our common stock. A portion of the proceeds from the New Mexico Shelf divestiture was used to initiate the share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2019, we had repurchased and retired 3,300,370 shares under the program at an aggregate cost of $250 million. 

Derivative Financial Instruments

Derivative financial instrument exposure. At December 31, 2019, the fair value of our financial derivatives was a net liability of $102 million. Under the terms of our financial derivative instruments, we do not have exposure to potential “margin calls” on our financial derivative instruments. The terms of our Credit Facility do not allow us to offset amounts we may owe a lender against amounts we may be owed related to our financial instruments with such party.

New commodity derivative contracts. After December 31, 2019, we entered into derivative contracts to hedge additional amounts of estimated future production. Refer to Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding these commodity derivative contracts.

41
Results of Operations

The following table sets forth summary production and operating data for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. The actual historical data in this table excludes results from the RSP Acquisition for periods prior to July 19, 2018. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities, fluctuations in commodity prices and the effects of acquisitions and divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42
The following table presents selected production data for the fields that represent greater than 15 percent of our total proved reserves at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Represents less than 15% of our total proved reserves for the year indicated. 

43
The following tables and related discussion set forth key operating and financial data as of and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. For similar operating and financial data and discussion of our 2018 results compared to our 2017 results, refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019.

Oil and natural gas revenues. Revenue from oil and natural gas operations was $4,592 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of $441 million (11 percent) from $4,151 million for 2018. The increase was primarily due to the increase in oil and natural gas production, in part due to the RSP Acquisition, partially offset by the decrease in realized oil and natural gas prices (excluding the effects of derivative activities).

Specific factors affecting oil and natural gas revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 include the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44
Oil and natural gas production expenses. The following table provides the components of our oil and natural gas production expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Lease operating expenses were $681 million ($5.64 per Boe) for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of $128 million (23 percent) from $553 million ($5.76 per Boe) for 2018. The increase in lease operating expenses during 2019 as compared to the prior year was primarily the result of an increase in well count due to our acquisitions during 2018, and additional wells successfully drilled and completed during 2018 and 2019, partially offset by the New Mexico Shelf divestiture. The decrease in lease operating expenses per Boe was primarily due to higher production from our drilling program during 2019 and the New Mexico Shelf divestiture. 

Workover costs were $35 million ($0.29 per Boe) for the year ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of $2 million from $37 million ($0.38 per Boe) for 2018. The decrease in workover costs per Boe during 2019 was primarily due to increased production and decreased workover activity. 

Production and ad valorem taxes. The following table provides the components of our production and ad valorem tax expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Production taxes per unit of production were $2.33 per Boe during the year ended December 31, 2019, a decrease of 18 percent from $2.84 per Boe during 2018. Over the same period, our revenue per Boe (excluding the effects of derivatives) decreased 12 percent. The decrease in production taxes per unit of production was due to lower realized revenue per Boe along with a higher percentage of our total production originating in Texas, which has a lower tax rate than New Mexico. 

Production taxes fluctuate with the market value of our production sold, while ad valorem taxes are generally based on the valuation of our oil and natural gas properties at the beginning of the year, which vary across the different areas in which we operate.

Ad valorem taxes increased $34 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to additional wells drilled and completed, new wells acquired and an increase in tax rates in certain counties. The increase in ad valorem taxes per Boe during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in tax rates. 

Gathering, processing and transportation costs. The following table shows the gathering, processing and transportation costs for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gathering, processing and transportation costs were $115 million ($0.96 per Boe) for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of 109 percent from $55 million for 2018. The increase in gathering, processing and transportation costs for 2019 was primarily due to a certain crude oil gathering and transportation contract that, among other things, was modified to allow repurchase rights. As such, costs related to this contract that were previously recorded as a deduction to revenue during 2018 are now recorded in gathering, processing and transportation costs. In addition, contributing to the increase in gathering, processing and transportation costs was the RSP Acquisition and the increase in production. The increase in gathering, processing and transportation costs per Boe was primarily related to the aforementioned crude oil gathering and transportation contract and fixed costs associated with 

45
certain contracts. Additionally, we entered into a marketing contract that requires us to deliver 50,000 barrels of oil per day that began in October 2019. As a result of this contract, we expect our realized oil prices, as well as our gathering, processing and transportation costs, to increase for the related oil production in future periods.

Exploration and abandonments expense. The following table provides the components of our exploration and abandonments expense for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our geological and geophysical expense for the periods presented above primarily consists of the costs of acquiring and processing geophysical data and core analysis. 

We recorded $147 million and $35 million of leasehold abandonments for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, primarily related to certain expiring acreage where we had no plans to extend the lease and acreage where we had no long-term plans to drill. 

Our other expense for the periods presented above primarily consists of surface and title costs on locations we no longer intend to drill, certain plugging costs and delay rentals. The increase in other expense during 2019 was primarily due to the abandonments of certain exploratory wells, in part due to mechanical issues encountered during the completion of certain wells that made them unable to produce hydrocarbons in economic quantities.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. The following table provides components of our depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depletion of proved oil and natural gas properties was $1,932 million ($15.98 per Boe) for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of $479 million (33 percent) from $1,453 million ($15.14 per Boe) for 2018. The increase in depletion expense was due to an increase in production and the depletion rate per Boe. The increase in depletion expense per Boe was primarily due to the RSP Acquisition and certain downward adjustments to our proved oil and natural gas reserves, partially offset by lower depletion of the Yeso field due to the impairment charge recognized during 2019, as discussed below, and the New Mexico Shelf divestiture.

Impairments of long-lived assets. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized impairments of long-lived assets of $890 million. During the second quarter of 2019, we recognized an impairment charge of $868 million that was primarily attributable to certain downward adjustments to our economically recoverable proved oil and natural gas reserves associated with properties in our Yeso field due to the decline in commodity prices. During the third quarter of 2019, we recognized an additional impairment charge of $20 million primarily to reduce the carrying value of the remaining assets in the Yeso field to their fair value. Our Yeso field was primarily composed of the New Mexico Shelf assets that we sold in November 2019. We did not recognize an impairment during 2018. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information on the fair value assumptions used for long-lived assets. 

It is reasonably possible that the estimate of undiscounted future net cash flows of our long-lived assets may change in the future resulting in the need to further impair carrying values. The primary factors that may affect estimates of future net cash flows are (i) commodity prices including differentials, (ii) increases or decreases in production and capital costs, (iii) future reserve volume adjustments, both positive and negative, to proved reserves and appropriate risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, (iv) results of future drilling activities and (v) changes in income and expenses from integrated assets.

46
Impairments of goodwill. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized goodwill impairments of $282 million. The impairments were due to a decline in our market capitalization along with declines in observed control premiums during the second half of 2019 and the New Mexico Shelf divestiture. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information on the impairment of our goodwill. 

General and administrative expenses. The following table provides components of our general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total general and administrative expenses were $326 million ($2.69 per Boe) for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of $15 million (5 percent) from $311 million ($3.25 per Boe) for 2018. The increase in total general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in the average employee headcount, in part due to the RSP Acquisition, partially offset by lower variable compensation accruals during 2019. The decrease in total general and administrative expenses per Boe was primarily the result of increased production, partially offset by the increase in total general and administrative expenses.

We receive fees for the operation of jointly-owned oil and natural gas properties during the drilling and production phases and record such reimbursements as reductions to general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. We earned reimbursements of approximately $18 million and $19 million during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

Gain (loss) on derivatives. The following table sets forth the gain (loss) on derivatives for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table represents our net cash receipts from (payments on) derivatives for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our earnings are affected by the changes in value of our derivatives portfolio between periods and the related cash settlements of those derivatives, which could be significant. To the extent the future commodity price outlook declines between measurement periods, we will have mark-to-market gains; while to the extent future commodity price outlook increases between measurement periods, we will have mark-to-market losses. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding significant judgments made in classifying financial instruments in the fair value hierarchy.

Gain on disposition of assets, net. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded a net gain on disposition of assets of $170 million, primarily due to a gain of $297 million related to our contribution of certain water infrastructure assets in exchange for a cash distribution and an equity ownership interest in an entity, partially offset by losses related to certain nonmonetary transactions and the New Mexico Shelf divestiture. 

47
During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a net gain on disposition of assets of $800 million, which was primarily due to (i) a gain of $575 million related to our February 2018 acquisition and divestiture primarily in the Midland Basin, (ii) a gain of $134 million related to our Delaware Basin divestiture in January 2018 and (iii) a gain of $79 million related to the contribution of certain infrastructure assets in the southern portion of the Delaware Basin. In addition, during 2018, we completed multiple nonmonetary transactions that included the exchange of both proved and unproved oil and natural gas properties that resulted in pre-tax gains of $15 million. 

Refer to Notes 2 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further discussion of certain of the 2019 and 2018 transactions mentioned above.

Interest expense. The following table sets forth interest expense, weighted average interest rates and weighted average debt balances for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to 2018 was primarily due to the increase in the weighted average debt balance, partially offset by the increase in capitalized interest and lower weighted average interest rate on our Credit Facility. The increase in the weighted average senior notes balance was primarily due to the senior notes issued in connection with the RSP Acquisition. 

Other income, net. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded other income of $313 million, primarily related to $289 million of cash proceeds from the sale of our ownership interest in Oryx I, a crude oil gathering and transportation system in the Delaware Basin (“Oryx I”). See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding this sale.

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded other income of $108 million primarily related to a cash distribution received from Oryx. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding this distribution. 

Income tax provisions. We recorded an income tax benefit of $154 million and an income tax expense of $603 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The change to income tax benefit in 2019 from income tax expense in 2018 was primarily due to the pre-tax loss during 2019 as compared to pre-tax income during 2018.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, we recorded an income tax benefit of $21 million due to the decrease in our applicable state tax rate in New Mexico as a result of the New Mexico Shelf divestiture. During the second quarter of 2019, the state of New Mexico enacted a tax law which, among other changes, amended the apportioned net operating loss carryforwards for corporations. As a result of this law change, we recorded a deferred state tax benefit of $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.

For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company completed its accounting for all of the enactment-date tax effects of the TCJA and recognized an adjustment to the provisional amount recorded as of the enactment date of approximately $7 million primarily related to the deductibility of certain performance-based compensation expenses.

Our effective income tax rates were 18 percent and 21 percent for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our effective income tax rate of 18 percent for the year ended December 31, 2019 differed from the federal statutory tax rate of 21 percent primarily due to (i) nondeductible goodwill impairment; (ii) deferred benefit recognized from the decrease in the applicable state tax rate as a result of the New Mexico Shelf divestiture; (iii) state income taxes, including the impact of the enacted New Mexico tax law change; and (iv) research and development credits, net of unrecognized tax benefits.

Our effective tax rate of 21 percent for the year ended December 31, 2018 approximated the federal statutory tax rate of 21 percent primarily due to the benefits from (i) research and development credits, net of unrecognized tax benefits; (ii) the change in 

48
the applicable state tax rates due to the RSP Acquisition; and (iii) the adjustment to provisional TCJA tax effects; offset by (iv) other recurring permanent differences and state income taxes that affect our rates.

49
Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity

Capital commitments. Our primary needs for cash are for (i) development, exploration and acquisition of oil and natural gas assets, (ii) midstream joint ventures and other capital commitments, (iii) payment of contractual obligations and (iv) working capital obligations. Funding for these cash needs may be provided by any combination of internally-generated cash flow, financing under our Credit Facility, proceeds from the disposition of assets or alternative financing sources, as discussed in “— Capital resources” below.

Oil and natural gas properties. Our costs incurred on oil and natural gas properties, excluding acquisitions, during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 totaled $3.0 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. The primary reason for the differences in costs incurred and cash flow expenditures included in our consolidated statements of cash flows was the timing of payments. Our 2019 capital expenditures were primarily funded from cash flows from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility.

2020 capital budget. In February 2020, our board of directors approved our 2020 capital budget of up to $2.9 billion. We expect to spend between $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion on drilling and completion activity.

Dividends. On February 18, 2020, our board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.20 per share for the first quarter of 2020 that is expected to be paid on March 27, 2020 to stockholders of record as of February 28, 2020. Total cash dividends paid to our stockholders during the year ended December 31, 2019 were $100 million. We intend to continue to pay a quarterly dividend of $0.20 in the future, however, any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant.

Share repurchase program. In September 2019, we announced that our board of directors authorized the initiation of a share repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of our common stock. The maximum aggregate dollar amount of repurchases that may be made in any quarter requires advance approval of the board of directors. The share repurchase program may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time by our board of directors and we are not obligated to acquire any specific number of shares.

We used a portion of the proceeds from the New Mexico Shelf divestiture, which closed in November 2019, to initiate share repurchases in the fourth quarter of 2019, while maintaining sufficient liquidity to fund our capital commitments and dividend payments. All additional future repurchases will require the approval of the Company’s board of directors. As of December 31, 2019, we repurchased and retired 3,300,370 shares under the program at an aggregate cost of $250 million. 

Other than the customary purchase of leasehold acreage, our capital budgets are exclusive of acquisitions. We do not have a specific acquisition budget because the timing and size of acquisitions are difficult to forecast. We evaluate opportunities to purchase or sell oil and natural gas properties in the marketplace and could participate as a buyer or seller of properties at various times. We seek to acquire oil and natural gas properties that provide opportunities for the addition of reserves and production through a combination of development, high-potential exploration and control of operations that will allow us to apply our operating expertise.

Acquisitions. The following table reflects our expenditures for acquisitions of proved and unproved properties for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Included in the property acquisition costs above are budgeted unproved leasehold acreage acquisitions of $50 million and $51 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our unbudgeted acquisitions during 2018 were primarily comprised of approximately $7.6 billion of property acquisition costs related to the RSP Acquisition. 

50
Contractual obligations. We had the following contractual obligations at December 31, 2019: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding future interest payment obligations on our long-term debt. The amounts included in the table above represent principal maturities only.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c)Derivative obligations represent commodity derivatives that were valued at December 31, 2019. The ultimate settlement amounts of our derivative obligations are unknown because they are subject to continuing market risk. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding our derivative obligations.

(d)Amounts represent costs related to expected oil and natural gas property abandonments, net of any future accretion.

(e)Represents amounts of cash compensation we are obligated to pay to our officers under employment agreements assuming such employees continue to serve the entire term of their employment agreement and their cash compensation is not adjusted.

(f)Relates to purchase agreements we have entered into including water commitment agreements, throughput volume delivery commitments, fixed and variable power commitments, sand commitment agreements and other commitments.

(g)Relates to our operating and financing leases, including office space, office equipment, drilling rigs, field equipment and vehicles. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding our lease obligations. Included in the “Less than 1 year” column are the Company’s drilling rigs. Drilling rigs are short-term leases and are not capitalized under the lease standard. A portion of these costs will be reimbursed to the Company by other working interest owners.

(h)The amounts above do not include the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information.

Off-balance sheet arrangements. Currently, we do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements.

Capital resources. Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash flows generated from (i) operating activities, (ii) borrowings under our Credit Facility, (iii) asset dispositions and (iv) proceeds from bond and equity offerings. In February 2020, our board of directors approved our 2020 capital budget of up to $2.9 billion. We expect to spend between $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion on drilling and completion activity. We expect to fund our 2020 capital budget primarily with operating cash flows. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, together with cash flows generated from operating activities and available borrowings under our Credit Facility, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.

51
The following table summarizes our changes in cash and cash equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. The discussion of changes in cash and cash equivalents for the year ended December 31, 2017 is included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash flow from operating activities. The increase in operating cash flows during the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to 2018 was primarily due to an increase in our total operating revenues of $441 million and an increase of $120 million due to $98 million of settlements paid on derivatives during the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to $218 million during 2018. The increase was partially offset by an increase in operating expenses on our oil and natural gas properties. 

Our net cash provided by operating activities included a reduction of $40 million and a benefit of $4 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, associated with changes in working capital items. Changes in working capital items adjust for the timing of receipts and payments of actual cash.

Cash flow from investing activities. Our investing activities consist primarily of drilling and completion activity, acquisitions and divestitures. The primary reason for the differences in costs incurred on oil and natural gas properties, including acquisitions, and cash flow expenditures is the timing of payments and the issuances of shares of common stock to fund certain acquisitions.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, our net cash used in investing activities was approximately $2.0 billion, which consisted primarily of our investment of approximately $3.1 billion for additions to oil and natural gas properties. This was partially offset by approximately $1.3 billion of cash proceeds from asset dispositions primarily due to the New Mexico Shelf divestiture, the sale of Oryx I and the contribution of certain water infrastructure assets to an entity. We used the proceeds from these and other divestitures to repay our outstanding balance under our Credit Facility. Our capital expenditures during the year ended December 31, 2019 were funded with cash flows from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility. 

For the year ended December 31, 2018, our net cash used in investing activities was approximately $2.2 billion, which consisted primarily of our investment of approximately $2.5 billion for additions to oil and natural gas properties and $136 million of oil and natural gas property acquisitions, partially offset by (i) $361 million of proceeds received from the disposition of certain assets and (ii) a $148 million distribution received from Oryx, one of our equity method investments. The total distribution from Oryx was $157 million, of which $9 million represented cumulative Oryx earnings and was classified as cash flow from operating activities, while the remaining amount of $148 million was classified as cash flow from investing activities. The 2018 expenditures were primarily funded with cash flows from operations. 

Cash flow from financing activities.  For the year ended December 31, 2019, our net cash used in financing activities was $773 million primarily due to $250 million of common stock repurchases under our share repurchase program, $242 million of net payments under our Credit Facility and $100 million of dividends paid on our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we decreased our book overdrafts by $159 million. 

For the year ended December 31, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities was $342 million. In July 2018, we issued $1.6 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and used the net proceeds to redeem and cancel certain senior unsecured notes assumed in the RSP Acquisition ("RSP Notes"). We made aggregate payments of approximately $1.2 billion to redeem and cancel the RSP Notes, including make-whole call premiums of $68 million. We also paid accrued interest of $14 million on the RSP Notes. The remaining proceeds, along with borrowings under our Credit Facility, were used to repay the $540 million of outstanding principal under RSP’s revolving credit facility, including $1 million in accrued interest. We also made net payments of $80 million on our Credit Facility during 2018. 

In September 2017, we elected to enter into an Investment Grade Period under our Credit Facility, which had the effect of releasing all collateral formerly securing our Credit Facility. If the Investment Grade Period under our Credit Facility terminates (whether automatically or by our election), our Credit Facility will once again be secured by a first lien on substantially all of our oil and natural gas properties and by a pledge of the equity interests in our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2019, we had unused commitments under our Credit Facility of $2.0 billion.

Advances on our Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, based on:

(i)an alternative base rate, which is equal to the highest of

52
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)the federal funds effective rate plus 0.5 percent, and

(c)the LIBOR plus 1.0 percent; or

(ii)LIBOR.

Our Credit Facility’s interest rates and commitment fees on the unused portion of the available commitment vary depending on our credit ratings from Moody’s and S&P. At our current credit ratings, LIBOR Rate Loans and Alternate Base Rate Loans bear interest margins of 150 basis points and 50 basis points per annum, respectively, and commitment fees on the unused portion of the available commitment are 25 basis points per annum.

In conducting our business, we may utilize various financing sources, including the issuance of (i) fixed and floating rate debt, (ii) convertible securities, (iii) preferred stock, (iv) common stock and (v) other securities. Historically, we have demonstrated our use of the capital markets by issuing common stock and senior unsecured debt. There are no assurances that we can access the capital markets to obtain additional funding, if needed, and at cost and terms that are favorable to us. We may also sell assets and issue securities in exchange for oil and natural gas assets or interests in energy companies. Additional securities may be of a class senior to common stock with respect to such matters as dividends and liquidation rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined from time to time. Utilization of some of these financing sources may require approval from the lenders under our Credit Facility.

Liquidity. Our principal source of liquidity is the available borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility. At December 31, 2019, our commitments from our bank group totaled $2.0 billion, all of which was unused.

Debt ratings.  We receive debt credit ratings from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch and are designated as investment grade with all three agencies. In determining our ratings, the agencies perform regular reviews and consider a number of qualitative and quantitative factors including, but not limited to, the industry in which we operate, production growth opportunities, liquidity, debt levels and asset and reserve mix.

A downgrade in our credit ratings could (i) negatively impact our costs of capital and our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy, (ii) affect our ability to raise debt in the public debt markets, and the cost of any new debt could be much higher than our outstanding debt and (iii) negatively affect our ability to obtain additional financing or the interest rate, fees and other terms associated with such additional financing. Further, if we are unable to maintain credit ratings of “Ba2” or better from Moody’s and “BB” or better from S&P, the Investment Grade Period under our Credit Facility will automatically terminate and cause our Credit Facility to once again be secured by a first lien on substantially all of our oil and natural gas properties and by a pledge of the equity interests in our subsidiaries. These and other impacts of a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there have been no changes to our credit ratings; however, we cannot be assured that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future.

Book capitalization and current ratio.  Our net book capitalization at December 31, 2019 was $21.8 billion, consisting of cash and cash equivalents of $70 million, debt of $4.0 billion and stockholders’ equity of $17.8 billion. Our net book capitalization at December 31, 2018 was $23.0 billion, consisting of debt of $4.2 billion and stockholders’ equity of $18.8 billion. Our ratio of net debt to net book capitalization was 18 percent and 18 percent at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 0.89 to 1.0 at December 31, 2019 as compared to 1.04 to 1.0 at December 31, 2018.

Inflation and changes in prices. Our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to obtain bank financing or additional capital on attractive terms have been and will continue to be affected by changes in commodity prices and the costs to produce our reserves. Commodity prices are subject to significant fluctuations that we are unable to control or predict. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we received an average of $54.03 per barrel of oil and $1.74 per Mcf of natural gas before consideration of commodity derivative contracts compared to $56.22 and $48.13 per barrel of oil and $3.40 and $3.07 per Mcf of natural gas in the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Although certain of our costs are affected by general inflation, inflation does not normally have a significant effect on our business.

53
Critical Accounting Policies, Practices and Estimates

Our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes to consolidated financial statements contain information that is pertinent to our management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. Preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires that our management make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. However, the accounting principles used by us generally do not change our reported cash flows or liquidity. Interpretation of the existing rules must be done and judgments made on how the specifics of a given rule apply to us.

In management’s opinion, the more significant reporting areas impacted by management’s judgments and estimates are the choice of accounting method for oil and natural gas activities, oil and natural gas reserve estimation, asset retirement obligations, impairments of long-lived assets, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of business combinations, accounting and valuation of nonmonetary transactions, impairments of goodwill, litigation and environmental contingencies, valuation of financial derivative instruments, uncertain tax positions and income taxes. Management’s judgments and estimates in these areas are based on information available from both internal and external sources, including engineers, geologists and historical experience in similar matters. Actual results could differ from the estimates as additional information becomes known.

Successful Efforts Method of Accounting

We utilize the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Under this method, exploration expenses, including geological and geophysical costs, lease rentals and exploratory dry holes, are charged against income as incurred. Costs of successful wells and related production equipment, undeveloped leases and developmental dry holes are capitalized. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but are charged to expense if and when a well is determined not to have found proved reserves. Generally, a gain or loss is recognized when producing fields are sold. This accounting method may yield significantly different results than the full cost method of accounting.

The application of the successful efforts method of accounting requires management’s judgment to determine the proper designation of wells as either developmental or exploratory, which will ultimately determine the proper accounting treatment of costs of dry holes. Once a well is drilled, the determination that proved reserves have been discovered may take considerable time, and requires both judgment and application of industry experience. The evaluation of oil and natural gas leasehold acquisition costs included in unproved properties requires management’s judgment to estimate the fair value of such properties. Drilling activities in an area by other companies may also effectively impair our leasehold positions.

Depletion of capitalized drilling and development costs of oil and natural gas properties is computed using the unit-of-production method on total estimated proved developed oil and natural gas reserves. Depletion of producing leaseholds is based on the unit-of-production method using our total estimated proved reserves. In arriving at rates under the unit-of-production method, the quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas are established based on estimates made by our geologists and engineers and independent engineers. Service properties, equipment and other assets are depreciated using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives of two to 39 years.

Oil and Natural Gas Reserves and Standardized Measure of Discounted Net Future Cash Flows

This report presents estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2019, which have been prepared and presented in accordance with SEC guidelines. The pricing that was used for estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2019 was based on the 12-month unweighted average of the first-day-of-the-month WTI posted price of $52.19 per Bbl for oil and Henry Hub spot natural gas price of $2.58 per MMBtu for natural gas.

Our independent engineers and technical staff prepare the estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves and associated future net cash flows. Even though our independent engineers and technical staff are knowledgeable and follow authoritative guidelines for estimating reserves, they must make a number of subjective assumptions based on professional judgments in developing the reserve estimates. Reserve estimates are updated at least annually and consider recent production levels and other technical information about each field. Periodic revisions to the estimated reserves and future net cash flows may be necessary as a result of a number of factors, including reservoir performance, new drilling, oil and natural gas prices, cost changes, technological advances, new geological or geophysical data, or other economic factors. We cannot predict the amounts or timing of future reserve revisions. If such revisions are significant, they could significantly alter future depletion and result in impairment of long-lived assets that may be material.

It should not be assumed that the Standardized Measure included in this report as of December 31, 2019 is the current market value of our estimated proved reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we based the 2019 Standardized Measure on the 12-month unweighted average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing for oil and natural gas and prevailing costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs utilized in the estimate. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 2. Properties” for additional information regarding estimates of proved reserves.

Our estimates of proved reserves materially impact depletion expense. If the estimates of proved reserves decline, the rate at which we record depletion expense will increase, reducing future earnings. Such a decline may result from lower commodity prices, 

54
which may make it uneconomical to drill for and produce higher cost fields. In addition, a decline in proved reserve estimates may impact the outcome of our assessment of our proved properties for impairment.

Asset Retirement Obligations

There are legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and the normal operation of a long-lived asset. The primary impact of this relates to oil and natural gas wells on which we have a legal obligation to plug and abandon. We record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred and, generally, a corresponding increase in the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. The determination of the fair value of the liability requires us to make numerous judgments and estimates, including judgments and estimates related to future costs to plug and abandon wells, future inflation rates and estimated lives of the related assets. When the judgments used to estimate the initial fair value of the asset retirement obligation change, an adjustment is recorded to both the obligation and the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. Historically, there have been no significant revisions to our initial estimates once future results became known. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding our asset retirement obligations.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

All of our long-lived assets are monitored for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be greater than management’s estimates of its future net cash flows, including cash flows from proved reserves, risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, and integrated assets. If the carrying value of the long-lived assets exceeds the sum of estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the assets. The evaluations involve a significant amount of judgment since the results are based on estimated future events, such as future sales prices for oil and natural gas, future costs to produce these products, estimates of future oil and natural gas reserves to be recovered and the timing thereof, the economic and regulatory climates, cash flows from integrated assets and other factors. The need to test an asset for impairment may result from significant declines in sales prices or downward revisions in estimated quantities of oil and natural gas reserves. Any assets held for sale are reviewed for impairment when we approve the plan to sell. Estimates of anticipated sales prices are highly judgmental and subject to material revision in future periods. At December 31, 2019, our estimates of commodity prices for purposes of determining undiscounted future cash flows, which are based on the NYMEX strip, ranged from a 2020 price of $58.83 per barrel of oil decreasing to a 2023 price of $51.31 per barrel of oil then rising to a 2026 price of $52.57 per barrel of oil. Natural gas prices ranged from a 2020 price of $2.29 per Mcf of natural gas increasing to a 2026 price of $2.55 per Mcf of natural gas. Both oil and natural gas commodity prices for this purpose were held flat after 2026.

Unproved oil and natural gas properties are periodically assessed for impairment by considering future drilling and exploration plans, results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales and expiration of all or a portion of the projects. During the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recognized expense of approximately $147 million, $35 million and $27 million, respectively, related to abandoned and expiring acreage, which is included in exploration and abandonments expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

Valuation of Stock-Based Compensation

In accordance with GAAP, we calculate the fair value of stock-based compensation using various valuation methods. The valuation methods require the use of estimates to derive the inputs necessary to determine fair value. We utilize (i) the average of the high and low stock price on the date of grant for the fair value of restricted stock awards and (ii) the Monte Carlo simulation method for the fair value of performance unit awards. The significant assumptions used in these models include expected volatility, expected term, risk-free interest rate, forfeiture rate, dividends, and the probability of meeting performance targets. Each of these valuation methods were chosen as management believes they give the best estimate of fair value for the respective stock-based awards. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for more information regarding our stock-based compensation.

Valuation of Business Combinations

In connection with a purchase business combination, the acquiring company must record assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on fair values as of the acquisition date. Deferred taxes must be recorded for any differences between the assigned values and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Any excess of purchase price over amounts assigned to assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. The amount of goodwill recorded in any particular business combination can vary significantly depending upon the value attributed to assets acquired and liabilities assumed.

In estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we make various assumptions. The most significant assumptions related to the estimated fair values assigned to proved and unproved oil and natural gas properties and integrated assets. To estimate the fair values of these properties, we utilize estimates of oil and natural gas reserves. We make future price assumptions to apply to the estimated reserves quantities acquired and estimate future operating and development costs to arrive at estimates of future net cash flows. For estimated proved reserves, the future net cash flows are discounted using a market-based weighted average cost of capital rate determined appropriate at the time of the acquisition. The market-based weighted average cost of capital rate is subject to additional project-specific risking factors. To estimate the fair value of unproved properties, we apply 

55
risk-weighting factors of the future net cash flows of unproved reserves, or we may evaluate acreage values through recent market transactions in the area.

Estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired can have a significant effect on results of operations in the future. A higher fair value assigned to a property results in a higher depletion expense, which results in lower net earnings. Fair values are based on estimates of future commodity prices, reserves quantities, operating expenses and development costs. This increases the likelihood of impairment if future commodity prices or reserves quantities are lower than those originally used to determine fair value or if future operating expenses or development costs are higher than those originally used to determine fair value. Impairment would have no effect on cash flows but would result in a decrease in net income for the period in which the impairment is recorded. Historically, we have had no material revisions to valuations of business combinations once the valuation estimate was finalized.

Accounting and Valuation of Nonmonetary Transactions

In connection with nonmonetary transactions, which include exchanges of producing and non-producing assets, we must evaluate the transaction to determine appropriate accounting treatment. In general, the basic principle of accounting for nonmonetary transactions is based on the fair values involved, which is the same basis used in monetary transactions and results in the recognition of gains and losses. However, certain nonmonetary transactions meet criteria that require modification of the basic principle that necessitate recording values based on historical book value. We determine the treatment of nonmonetary transactions based on the individual facts and circumstances of each transaction. In cases where nonmonetary transactions are recorded at fair value, we make various assumptions. The most significant assumptions are related to the estimated fair values assigned to proved and unproved oil and natural gas properties, similar to our valuation of the fair value of oil and natural gas assets acquired during a business combination described above. Any resulting difference between the fair value of the assets involved and their carrying value is recorded as a gain or loss in the consolidated statement of operations.

Estimated fair values assigned to assets exchanged can have a significant effect on our results of operations in the future. If future commodity prices or reserves quantities are lower than those originally used to determine fair value or if future operating expenses or development costs are higher than those originally used to determine fair value, we would record an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value. Impairment would have no effect on cash flows but would result in a decrease in net income for the period in which the impairment is recorded.

Impairments of Goodwill

Goodwill is assessed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Impairment tests, which involve the use of estimates related to the fair market value of the business operations with which goodwill is associated, is performed as of July 1 of each year. As we operate as a single operating segment and a single reporting unit, we evaluate goodwill for impairment based on an evaluation of the fair value of the company as a whole. The fair value of the reporting unit is our enterprise value (combined market capitalization of our equity plus a control premium, and the fair value of our long-term debt). There are multiple valuation methodologies available to us in determining the fair values; however, given that we are one reporting unit, we use quoted market prices in active markets as the basis for our measurement as we believe they are the best evidence of fair value. There is considerable judgment involved in estimating fair values, particularly in determining the control premium. To establish a reasonable control premium, we consider the premiums paid in recent market acquisitions and analyze current industry, market and economic conditions along with other factors or available information specific to our business. Deteriorating industry, market and economic conditions could negatively impact our control premium and our enterprise value, which could lead to an impairment of our goodwill balance. 

As discussed in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in August 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our assets in the New Mexico Shelf. We classified these assets as held for sale at August 29, 2019. We allocated $81 million of goodwill to this disposal group, all of which we impaired. In addition, we performed an impairment test at September 30, 2019 due to declines in our market capitalization and at December 31, 2019 due to declines in observed control premiums. The fair value of the reporting unit at September 30, 2019 exceeded the carrying value of our net assets. However, during the fourth quarter of 2019, our fair value declined further resulting in a $201 million goodwill impairment charge at December 31, 2019. 

It is reasonably possible that the estimates of our enterprise value may change in the future and result in the need to impair goodwill. Currently, the primary factors that may negatively affect our enterprise value are the continued depressed level of our stock price and estimated control premium we use in the fair value of our reporting unit. We use an average stock price over a determined period to estimate the fair value of our reporting unit, which we believe removes the impact of short-term market fluctuations. We used an average stock price of $72.23 in determining our market capitalization at December 31, 2019. In addition, our control premium is based on the estimated median control premium of transactions involving companies in our industry. Further declines in our average stock price and/or in our estimated control premium could result in additional impairments of goodwill. Many factors affecting our stock price are beyond our control and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. In addition, stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. Other assumptions such as the control premium and the value of our long-term debt will likely change in the future, and these and other assumptions may worsen or partially mitigate some of the effects of a reduction in our average stock price. As a result, we are unable to predict with certainty whether or not a decline in our stock price alone will or will not cause us to recognize an impairment charge or the magnitude of such impairment charge. 

56
See Notes 2 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for more information regarding goodwill.

Litigation and Environmental Contingencies

We make judgments and estimates in recording liabilities for ongoing litigation and environmental remediation. Actual costs can vary from such estimates for a variety of reasons. The costs to settle litigation can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations of laws and opinions and assessments on the amount of damages. Similarly, environmental remediation liabilities are subject to change because of changes in laws and regulations, developing information relating to the extent and nature of site contamination and improvements in technology. A liability is recorded for these types of contingencies if we determine the loss to be both probable and reasonably estimable. If we are unable to reasonably estimate an amount but we are able to estimate a range of reasonably possible amounts, then the low end of the range is recorded. See Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for more information regarding our commitments and contingencies.

Valuation of Financial Derivatives

In order to reduce commodity price uncertainty and increase cash flow predictability relating to the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we enter into commodity price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. In addition, we have used derivative instruments in connection with acquisitions and certain price-sensitive projects. Management exercises significant judgment in determining the types of instruments to be used, production volumes to be hedged, prices at which to hedge and the counterparties’ creditworthiness. All derivative instruments are reflected at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets.

Our open commodity derivative instruments were in a net liability position with a fair value of $102 million at December 31, 2019. In order to determine the fair value at the end of each reporting period, we compute discounted cash flows for the duration of each commodity derivative instrument using the terms of the related contract. Inputs consist of published forward commodity price curves as of the date of the estimate. We compare these prices to the price parameters contained in our hedge contracts to determine estimated future cash inflows or outflows. We then discount the cash inflows or outflows using a combination of published LIBOR rates and Eurodollar futures rates. The fair values of our commodity derivative assets and liabilities include a measure of credit risk based on average published yields by credit rating.

Changes in the fair values of our commodity derivative instruments have a significant impact on our net income because we follow mark-to-market accounting and recognize all gains and losses on such instruments in earnings in the period in which they occur. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we reported a $895 million loss on commodity derivative instruments.

We compare our estimates of the fair values of our commodity derivative instruments with those provided by our counterparties. There have been no significant differences.

Income Taxes

On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed the TCJA into law, which enacted significant changes to the federal income tax laws. According to ASC 740, “Income Taxes,” a company is required to record the effects of an enacted tax law or rate change in the period of enactment. Based on the comprehensiveness of TCJA and the challenges faced by calendar year-end registrants to complete the accounting for the income tax effects of the TCJA in the period of enactment, the SEC issued SAB 118 “Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” which allowed companies to report provisional amounts when based on reasonable estimates and to adjust these amounts during a measurement period of up to one year.

We elected to apply SAB 118 and recorded provisional amounts of our income tax balances in our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2017. We calculated our best estimate of the impact of the TCJA, including the federal statutory tax rate change noted below, in our 2017 income tax provision in accordance with our understanding of the TCJA and recorded a $398 million decrease to our income tax provision at December 31, 2017. The provisional amount related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. At December 31, 2018, the Company completed its accounting for all of the enactment-date tax effects of the TCJA and recognized an adjustment of $7 million to the provisional amount recorded at December 31, 2017. This adjustment was primarily related to the deductibility of certain performance-based compensation based on additional available regulatory and interpretive guidance.

On July 19, 2018, we completed the RSP Acquisition. For federal income tax purposes, the transaction qualified as a tax-free merger whereby we acquired carryover tax basis in RSP’s assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2018, we recorded an opening balance sheet deferred tax liability of $515 million based on our assessment of the carryover tax basis, which includes a deferred tax asset related to tax attributes acquired from RSP. The acquired income tax attributes primarily consist of NOLs and research and development credits that are subject to an annual limitation under Internal Revenue Code Section 382. The Company expects that these tax attributes will be fully utilized prior to expiration.

Our provision for income taxes includes both federal and state taxes of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We estimate our overall tax rate using a combination of the enacted federal statutory tax rate, which decreased from 35 percent to 21 percent effective 

57
January 1, 2018 as a result of the TCJA, and a blend of enacted state tax rates. Acquisitions or dispositions of assets and changes in our drilling plan by tax jurisdiction could change the apportionment of our state taxes, which would impact our overall tax rate.

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based upon the technical merits of the position. If all or a portion of the unrecognized tax benefit is sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, the tax benefit will be recognized as a reduction to our deferred tax liability and will affect our effective tax rate in the period it is recognized. The assessment of potential uncertain tax positions requires a significant amount of judgment and are reviewed and adjusted on a periodic basis.

Our federal and state income tax returns are not prepared or filed before the consolidated financial statements are prepared; therefore, we estimate the tax basis of our assets and liabilities and tax attributes, which are based on numerous judgments and assumptions inherent in the determination of taxable income, at the end of each period. Adjustments related to these estimates are recorded in our tax provision in the period in which we finalize our income tax returns. Historically, we have had no significant changes as a result of filing our tax returns. Material changes to our tax accruals and uncertain tax positions may occur in the future based on audits, changes in legislation or resolution of pending matters.

See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding our current year income tax benefit, deferred tax balances and uncertain tax positions.

New accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding new accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted.

58
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk