Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following combined discussion is separately filed by DTE Energy and DTE Electric. However, DTE Electric does not make any representations as to information related solely to DTE Energy or the subsidiaries of DTE Energy other than itself.

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

DTE Energy is a diversified energy company with 2019 Operating Revenues of approximately $12.7 billion and Total Assets of approximately $41.9 billion. DTE Energy is the parent company of DTE Electric and DTE Gas, regulated electric and natural gas utilities engaged primarily in the business of providing electricity and natural gas sales, distribution, and storage services throughout Michigan. DTE Energy operates three energy-related non-utility segments with operations throughout the United States.

The following table summarizes DTE Energy's financial results:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in 2019 Net Income Attributable to DTE Energy Company was primarily due to higher earnings in the Electric and Gas segments, partially offset by lower earnings in the Gas Storage and Pipelines and Power and Industrial Projects segments. The decrease in 2018 Net Income Attributable to DTE Energy Company was primarily due to lower earnings in the Gas Storage and Pipelines, Energy Trading, and Corporate and Other segments, partially offset by higher earnings in the Electric, Gas, and Power and Industrial Projects segments. The 2018 decrease was primarily due to higher Income Tax Expense, as 2017 included a one-time net income tax benefit of $105 million related to the enactment of the TCJA.

Please see detailed explanations of segment performance in the following "Results of Operations" section.

DTE Energy's strategy is to achieve long-term earnings growth, a strong balance sheet, and an attractive dividend yield.

 28

DTE Energy's utilities are investing capital to improve customer reliability through investments in base infrastructure and new generation, and to comply with environmental requirements. DTE Energy expects that planned significant capital investments will result in earnings growth. DTE Energy is focused on executing plans to achieve operational excellence and customer satisfaction with a focus on customer affordability. DTE Energy operates in a constructive regulatory environment and has solid relationships with its regulators.

In March 2019, DTE Energy announced updated plans for accelerating its reduction of carbon emissions to 32% by the early 2020s, 50% by 2030, and 80% by 2040 from the 2005 carbon emissions levels. In September 2019, DTE Energy expanded on its commitment by announcing a net zero carbon emissions goal by 2050 for DTE Electric. To achieve the reduction goals in the near term, DTE Energy will transition away from coal-powered sources and incorporate more renewable energy, energy waste reduction projects, demand response, and natural gas fueled generation. DTE Energy has already begun the transition in the way it produces power through the continued retirement of its aging coal-fired plants. Refer to the "Capital Investments" section below for further discussion.

DTE Energy has significant investments in non-utility businesses. DTE Energy employs disciplined investment criteria when assessing growth opportunities that leverage its assets, skills, and expertise, and provides diversity in earnings and geography. Specifically, DTE Energy invests in targeted energy markets with attractive competitive dynamics where meaningful scale is in alignment with its risk profile. DTE Energy expects growth opportunities in the Gas Storage and Pipelines and Power and Industrial Projects segments.

A key priority for DTE Energy is to maintain a strong balance sheet which facilitates access to capital markets and reasonably priced short-term and long-term financing. Near-term growth will be funded through internally generated cash flows and the issuance of debt and equity. DTE Energy has an enterprise risk management program that, among other things, is designed to monitor and manage exposure to earnings and cash flow volatility related to commodity price changes, interest rates, and counterparty credit risk.

CAPITAL INVESTMENTS

DTE Energy's utility businesses require significant capital investments to maintain and improve the electric generation and electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure and to comply with environmental regulations and renewable energy requirements.

DTE Electric's capital investments over the 2020-2024 period are estimated at $12.0 billion comprised of $4.0 billion for capital replacements and other projects, $5.0 billion for distribution infrastructure, and $3.0 billion for new generation. DTE Electric has retired five coal-fired generation units at the Trenton Channel, River Rouge, and St. Clair facilities and has announced plans to retire its remaining twelve coal-fired generating units. Six of these coal-fired generating units will be retired through 2022 at the Trenton Channel, River Rouge, and St. Clair facilities. The remaining coal-fired generating units at the Belle River and Monroe facilities are expected to be retired by 2040. The retired facilities will be replaced with renewables, energy waste reduction, demand response, and natural gas fueled generation.

DTE Gas' capital investments over the 2020-2024 period are estimated at $3.0 billion comprised of $1.4 billion for base infrastructure, and $1.6 billion for gas main renewal, meter move out, and pipeline integrity programs.

DTE Electric and DTE Gas plan to seek regulatory approval for capital expenditures consistent with ratemaking treatment.

DTE Energy's non-utility businesses' capital investments are primarily for expansion, growth, and ongoing maintenance. Gas Storage and Pipelines' capital investments over the 2020-2024 period are estimated at $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion for gathering and pipeline investments and expansions. Power and Industrial Projects' capital investments over the 2020-2024 period are estimated at $1.0 billion to $1.4 billion for industrial energy services and RNG projects.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Registrants are subject to extensive environmental regulations. Additional costs may result as the effects of various substances on the environment are studied and governmental regulations are developed and implemented. Actual costs to comply could vary substantially. The Registrants expect to continue recovering environmental costs related to utility operations through rates charged to customers, as authorized by the MPSC.

 29

Air — DTE Electric is subject to the EPA ozone and fine particulate transport and acid rain regulations that limit power plant emissions of SO2 and NOX. The EPA and the State of Michigan have also issued emission reduction regulations relating to ozone, fine particulate, regional haze, mercury, and other air pollution. These rules have led to controls on fossil-fueled power plants to reduce SO2, NOX, mercury, and other emissions. Additional rulemakings may occur over the next few years which could require additional controls for SO2, NOX, and other hazardous air pollutants. To comply with existing requirements, DTE Electric spent approximately $2.4 billion through 2019. DTE Electric does not anticipate additional capital expenditures through 2026, pending the results of future rulemakings.

The EPA has implemented regulatory actions under the Clean Air Act to address emissions of GHGs from the utility sector and other sectors of the economy. Among these actions, in 2015 the EPA finalized performance standards for emissions of carbon dioxide from new and existing fossil-fuel EGUs. In 2019 the performance standards for existing EGUs (also known as the Clean Power Plan) were officially repealed and replaced by the ACE Rule. The ACE Rule requires the state of Michigan to submit a plan in 2022 that includes GHG standards for existing coal-fired power plant units in Michigan. It is not possible to determine the potential impact of the EPA's ACE rule on existing sources at this time.

Pending or future legislation or other regulatory actions could have a material impact on DTE Electric's operations and financial position and the rates charged to its customers. Impacts include expenditures for environmental equipment beyond what is currently planned, financing costs related to additional capital expenditures, the purchase of emission credits from market sources, higher costs of purchased power, and the retirement of facilities where control equipment is not economical. DTE Electric would seek to recover these incremental costs through increased rates charged to its utility customers, as authorized by the MPSC.

Increased costs for energy produced from traditional coal-based sources due to recent, pending, and future regulatory initiatives, could also increase the economic viability of energy produced from renewable, natural gas fueled generation, and/or nuclear sources, energy waste reduction initiatives, and the potential development of market-based trading of carbon instruments which could provide new business opportunities for DTE Energy's utility and non-utility segments. At the present time, it is not possible to quantify the financial impacts of these climate related regulatory initiatives on the Registrants or their customers.

See Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Commitments and Contingencies," for further discussion of Environmental Matters.

OUTLOOK

The next few years will be a period of rapid change for DTE Energy and for the energy industry. DTE Energy's strong utility base, combined with its integrated non-utility operations, position it well for long-term growth.

Looking forward, DTE Energy will focus on several areas that are expected to improve future performance:

•electric and gas customer satisfaction;

•electric distribution system reliability;

•new electric generation;

•gas distribution system renewal;

•rate competitiveness and affordability;

•regulatory stability and investment recovery for the electric and gas utilities;

•employee safety and engagement;

•cost structure optimization across all business segments;

•cash, capital, and liquidity to maintain or improve financial strength; and

•investments that integrate assets and leverage skills and expertise.

DTE Energy will continue to pursue opportunities to grow its businesses in a disciplined manner if it can secure opportunities that meet its strategic, financial, and risk criteria.

 30

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as the non-GAAP financial measures, Utility Margin and Non-utility Margin, discussed below, which DTE Energy uses as measures of its operational performance. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.

DTE Energy uses Utility Margin and Non-utility Margin, non-GAAP financial measures, to assess its performance by reportable segment.

Utility Margin includes electric utility and gas utility Operating Revenues net of Fuel, purchased power, and gas expenses. The utilities’ fuel, purchased power, and natural gas supply are passed through to customers, and therefore, result in changes to the utilities’ revenues that are comparable to changes in such expenses. As such, DTE Energy believes Utility Margin provides a meaningful basis for evaluating the utilities’ operations across periods, as it excludes the revenue effect of fluctuations in these expenses. For the Electric segment, non-utility Operating Revenues are reported separately so that Utility Margin can be used to assess utility performance.

The Non-utility Margin relates to the Power and Industrial Projects and Energy Trading segments. For the Power and Industrial Projects segment, Non-utility Margin primarily includes Operating Revenues net of Fuel, purchased power, and gas expenses. Operating Revenues include sales of refined coal to third parties and the affiliated Electric utility, metallurgical coke and related by-products, petroleum coke, renewable natural gas, and electricity, as well as rental income and revenues from utility-type consulting, management, and operational services. For the Energy Trading segment, Non-utility Margin includes revenue and realized and unrealized gains and losses from physical and financial power and gas marketing, optimization, and trading activities, net of Purchased power and gas related to these activities. DTE Energy evaluates its operating performance of these non-utility businesses using the measure of Operating Revenues net of Fuel, purchased power, and gas expenses.

Utility Margin and Non-utility Margin are not measures calculated in accordance with GAAP and should be viewed as a supplement to and not a substitute for the results of operations presented in accordance with GAAP. Utility Margin and Non-utility Margin do not intend to represent operating income, the most comparable GAAP measure, as an indicator of operating performance and are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

The following sections provide a detailed discussion of the operating performance and future outlook of DTE Energy's segments. Segment information, described below, includes intercompany revenues and expenses, and other income and deductions that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ELECTRIC

The Results of Operations discussion for DTE Electric is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction I (2) (a) of Form 10-K for wholly-owned subsidiaries.

 31

The Electric segment consists principally of DTE Electric. Electric results are discussed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See DTE Electric's Consolidated Statements of Operations in Item 8 of this Report for a complete view of its results. Differences between the Electric segment and DTE Electric's Consolidated Statements of Operations are primarily due to the classification of certain benefit costs. Refer to Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets" for additional information.

Utility Margin increased $91 million in 2019 and $98 million in 2018. Revenues associated with certain mechanisms and surcharges are offset by related expenses elsewhere in the Registrants' Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The following table details changes in various Utility Margin components relative to the comparable prior period:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 32

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______________________________

(a)Represents power that is not distributed by DTE Electric.

(b)Represents deliveries for self-generators that have purchased power from alternative energy suppliers to supplement their power requirements.

DTE Electric changes in sales for residential, commercial, and industrial are primarily due to less favorable weather in 2019 compared to 2018.

Operating Revenues — Non-utility operations increased $5 million in 2019 due to renewable energy projects acquired by DTE Sustainable Generation in September 2019.

Operation and maintenance expense decreased $3 million in 2019 and increased $55 million in 2018. The decrease in 2019 was primarily due to decreased uncollectible expense of $19 million and decreased generation expense of $3 million, partially offset by higher tree trim expense of $20 million (tree trim expenses increased by $63 million but were offset by amounts deferred to a regulatory asset of $43 million). The increase in 2018 was primarily due to increased uncollectible expense of $34 million due to customer billing initiatives following implementation of the new billing system, increased power plant generation expense of $24 million, an increase in energy waste reduction expense of $10 million to meet higher energy savings targets, partially offset by decreased distribution operations expense of $13 million.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased $113 million in 2019 and $83 million in 2018. In 2019, the increase was primarily due to a $124 million increase resulting from a higher depreciable base and change in depreciation rates effective May 2019, a $6 million increase associated with the RPS and a $4 million increase resulting from new non-utility assets at DTE Sustainable Generation, partially offset by a decrease of $17 million associated with the TRM. In 2018, the increase was primarily due to an increase to depreciable base of $46 million and an increase of $42 million associated with the TRM, partially offset by a decrease in regulatory asset amortization of $5 million.

Asset (gains) losses and impairments, net increased $14 million in 2019 and decreased $1 million in 2018. In 2019, the increase was primarily due to previously recorded capital expenditures of $13 million that were disallowed in the May 2, 2019 rate order.

Other (Income) and Deductions decreased $26 million in 2019 and increased $26 million in 2018. The decrease in 2019 was primarily due to a change in investment earnings (gain of $37 million in 2019 compared to a loss of $11 million in 2018) and lower non-operating retirement benefits expense of $12 million, partially offset by higher interest expense of $32 million. The increase in 2018 was primarily due to higher interest expense of $9 million and change in investment earnings (loss of $11 million in 2018 compared to a gain of $26 million in 2017), partially offset by decreased non-operating retirement benefits expense of $13 million and a contribution to the DTE Energy Foundation of $7 million in 2017.

Income Tax Expense decreased $56 million in 2019 and $128 million in 2018. The decrease in 2019 was primarily due to TCJA regulatory liability amortization of $35 million and higher production tax credits in 2019. The decrease in 2018 was primarily due to the reduction in the federal tax rate in the TCJA that was enacted in December 2017.

 33

Outlook — DTE Electric will continue to move forward in its efforts to achieve operational excellence, sustain strong cash flows, and earn its authorized return on equity. DTE Electric expects that planned significant capital investments will result in earnings growth. DTE Electric will maintain a strong focus on customers by increasing reliability and satisfaction while keeping customer rate increases affordable. Looking forward, additional factors may impact earnings such as weather, the outcome of regulatory proceedings, benefit plan design changes, investment returns and changes in discount rate assumptions in benefit plans and health care costs, uncertainty of legislative or regulatory actions regarding climate change, and effects of energy waste reduction programs.

DTE Electric filed a rate case with the MPSC on July 8, 2019 requesting an increase in base rates of $351 million based on a projected twelve-month period ending April 30, 2021. The requested increase in base rates is primarily due to an increase in net plant resulting from infrastructure and generation investments. The rate filing also requests an increase in return on equity from 10.0% to 10.5% and includes projected changes in sales and operating and maintenance expenses. A final MPSC order in this case is expected by May 2020. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" for additional information.

GAS

The Gas segment consists principally of DTE Gas. Gas results are discussed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Utility Margin increased $65 million in 2019 and $45 million in 2018. Revenues associated with certain mechanisms and surcharges are offset by related expenses elsewhere in DTE Energy's Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The following table details changes in various Utility Margin components relative to the comparable prior period:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 34

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operation and maintenance expense increased $13 million in 2019 and $53 million in 2018. The increase in 2019 was primarily due to higher gas operations expenses of $22 million, which included higher pipeline integrity and other operating costs, and higher customer service costs of $4 million, partially offset by decreased uncollectible expense of $14 million. The increase in 2018 was primarily due to increased uncollectible expense of $28 million due to customer billing initiatives following implementation of a new customer billing system and higher gas operations expenses of $22 million, which included increased investment spending and higher pipeline integrity expenses.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased $11 million in 2019 and $10 million in 2018. The increase in both periods was primarily due to increases in depreciable base.

Other (Income) and Deductions increased $4 million in 2019 and decreased $19 million in 2018. The increase in 2019 was primarily due to higher interest expense of $8 million, partially offset by lower contributions to the DTE Energy Foundation and other not-for-profit organizations of $6 million. The decrease in 2018 was primarily due to lower contributions to the DTE Energy Foundation and other not-for-profit organizations of $27 million, partially offset by higher interest expense of $6 million.

Income Tax Expense decreased $5 million in 2019 and $11 million in 2018. The decrease in 2019 was primarily due to the absence of a $10 million TCJA expense recorded in 2018, partially offset by increased tax expense on higher earnings in 2019. The decrease in 2018 was primarily due to the reduction in the federal tax rate in the TCJA that was enacted in December 2017, partially offset by a $10 million TCJA expense and the absence of the $7 million favorable depreciation tax benefit that ended in 2017.

Outlook — DTE Gas will continue to move forward in its efforts to achieve operational excellence, sustain strong cash flows, and earn its authorized return on equity. DTE Gas expects that planned significant infrastructure capital investments will result in earnings growth. Looking forward, additional factors may impact earnings such as weather, the outcome of regulatory proceedings, benefit plan design changes, and investment returns and changes in discount rate assumptions in benefit plans and health care costs. DTE Gas expects to continue its efforts to improve productivity and decrease costs while improving customer satisfaction with consideration of customer rate affordability.

 35

DTE Gas filed a rate case with the MPSC on November 25, 2019 requesting an increase in base rates of $204 million based on a projected twelve-month period ending September 30, 2021. The requested increase in base rates is primarily due to an increase in net plant resulting from infrastructure investments and operating and maintenance expenses. The rate filing also requests an increase in return on equity from 10.0% to 10.5% and includes projected changes in sales and working capital. A final MPSC order in this case is expected by September 2020.

GAS STORAGE AND PIPELINES

The Gas Storage and Pipelines segment consists of the non-utility gas pipelines and storage businesses. Gas Storage and Pipelines results are discussed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Revenues — Non-utility operations increased $16 million in 2019 and $32 million in 2018. The increase in both periods was primarily due to higher pipeline and gathering revenues, partially offset by lower physical sales of gas from AGS customers and lower storage revenues. The 2019 increase includes the acquisition of Blue Union in December 2019 and the first full year of Birdsboro Pipeline operations.

Cost of gas — Non-utility decreased $4 million in 2019 and $8 million in 2018. The decrease in both periods was driven primarily by lower physical purchases of gas from AGS customers.

Operation and maintenance expense increased $17 million in 2019 and $20 million in 2018. The 2019 increase was primarily due to transaction costs associated with the Blue Union and LEAP acquisition and higher labor related expenses. The 2018 increase was primarily due to higher labor related expenses and additional compression activity on the Bluestone Pipeline and Susquehanna gathering systems.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased $12 million in 2019 and $6 million in 2018. The 2019 increase was primarily due to additional pipeline and gathering assets placed into service during the year.

Other (Income) and Deductions decreased $27 million in 2019 and increased $43 million in 2018. The 2019 decrease was primarily due to lower earnings from pipeline investments and higher interest expense. The 2018 increase was primarily due to higher earnings from pipeline investments and a $16 million net loss on extinguishment of debt within the storage business in 2017, partially offset by higher interest expense.

Income Tax Expense (Benefit) increased $6 million in 2019 and $98 million in 2018. The 2018 increase was primarily driven by the $115 million remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the reduction in the corporate tax rate from the enactment of the TCJA in December 2017.

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests decreased $12 million in 2019 and increased $1 million in 2018. The 2019 decrease was primarily due to the May 2019 purchase of an additional 30% ownership interest in SGG.

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Acquisitions", for discussion of the acquisition of Blue Union and LEAP in December 2019.

 36

Outlook — Significant expansion activities are underway to increase capacity of the Blue Union and LEAP assets, which provide natural gas gathering and other midstream services to producers located primarily in Louisiana.

DTE Energy believes its long-term agreements with producers and the quality of the natural gas reserves in the Marcellus/Utica and Haynesville shale regions soundly position the business for future growth. Gas Storage and Pipelines will continue to execute quality investments, with a focus on continued organic growth from well-positioned existing assets.

POWER AND INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS

The Power and Industrial Projects segment is comprised primarily of projects that deliver energy and utility-type products and services to industrial, commercial, and institutional customers, produce reduced emissions fuel, and sell electricity and pipeline-quality gas from renewable energy projects. Power and Industrial Projects results are discussed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Revenues — Non-utility operations decreased $644 million in 2019 and increased $115 million in 2018. The changes are due to the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 37

Non-utility Margin increased $24 million in 2019 and $40 million in 2018. The changes are due to the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operation and maintenance expense decreased $35 million in 2019 and increased $21 million in 2018. The 2019 decrease was primarily due to $33 million associated with the sale of membership interests in the REF business and $9 million lower spend in the Renewables business primarily due to an expired contract, partially offset by $7 million higher maintenance spend in the Steel business. The 2018 increase was primarily due to higher production in the REF business of $11 million and new contracts in the On-site business of $8 million.

Asset (gains) losses and impairments, net decreased $26 million in 2019 and increased $7 million in 2018. The change in both periods was primarily due to higher losses incurred in 2018, including $15 million of a liability adjustment related to contingent consideration and an $8 million asset write-off associated with the Renewable business in anticipation of a contract ending in 2020.

Other (Income) and Deductions increased $37 million in 2019 and $26 million in 2018. The 2019 increase was primarily due to the sale of membership interests in the REF business and higher equity earnings at various projects. The 2018 increase was primarily due to higher production in the REF business of $20 million and decreased contributions to the DTE Energy Foundation of $4 million.

Income Taxes — Expense (Benefit) decreased by $27 million in 2019 from the net benefit of $7 million in 2018 and by $35 million in 2018 from the net benefit of $42 million in 2017. The 2019 decrease was primarily due to the change in pretax income. The 2018 decrease was primarily due to the 2017 remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the reduction in the corporate tax rate from the enactment of the TCJA in December 2017.

Income Taxes — Production Tax Credits decreased by $105 million in 2019 and increased $35 million in 2018. The 2019 decrease was primarily due to the sale of membership interests in the REF business. The 2018 increase was primarily due to higher production in the REF business.

Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests decreased by $17 million in 2019 and by $19 million in 2018. The 2019 decrease was primarily due to the sale of membership interests in the REF business. The 2018 decrease was primarily due to termination of a project in the REF business.

Outlook — In December 2019, Power and Industrial Projects signed an agreement with South Jersey Industries (“SJI”) to purchase an 8 MW combined heat and power generation facility that provides electricity and hot and chilled water to a hotel and casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey. The acquisition had a purchase price of $100 million and is expected to close in early 2020.

Power and Industrial Projects will continue to leverage its extensive energy-related operating experience and project management capability to develop additional energy and renewable natural gas projects to serve energy intensive industrial customers in addition to optimizing the REF facilities until the phase out at the end of 2021.

 38

ENERGY TRADING

Energy Trading focuses on physical and financial power, natural gas and environmental marketing and trading, structured transactions, enhancement of returns from its asset portfolio, and optimization of contracted natural gas pipeline transportation and storage positions. Energy Trading also provides natural gas, power, environmental and related services, which may include the management of associated storage and transportation contracts on the customers' behalf and the supply or purchase of environmental attributes to various customers. Energy Trading results are discussed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Revenues — Non-utility operations and Purchased power and gas — non-utility decreased in 2019 primarily due to lower gas prices and increased in 2018 primarily due to higher volumes and higher gas prices, primarily in the gas structured strategy.

Non-utility Margin increased $15 million in 2019 and decreased $60 million in 2018. The change in both periods was primarily due to timing from the unrealized and realized margins presented in the following tables:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______________________________________

(a)Natural gas structured transactions typically involve a physical purchase or sale of natural gas in the future and/or natural gas basis financial instruments which are derivatives and a related non-derivative pipeline transportation contract. These gas structured transactions can result in significant earnings volatility as the derivative components are marked-to-market without revaluing the related non-derivative contracts.

(b)Amount includes $87 million of timing related gains related to gas strategies which will reverse in future periods as the underlying contracts settle.

(c)Amount includes $61 million of timing related gains related to gas strategies recognized in previous periods that reversed as the underlying contracts settled.

 39

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______________________________________

(a)Natural gas structured transactions typically involve a physical purchase or sale of natural gas in the future and/or natural gas basis financial instruments which are derivatives and a related non-derivative pipeline transportation contract. These gas structured transactions can result in significant earnings volatility as the derivative components are marked-to-market without revaluing the related non-derivative contracts.

(b)Amount includes $74 million of timing related losses related to gas strategies which will reverse in future periods as the underlying contracts settle.

(c)Amount includes $11 million of timing related gains related to gas strategies recognized in previous periods that reversed as the underlying contracts settled.

Outlook — In the near-term, Energy Trading expects market conditions to remain challenging. The profitability of this segment may be impacted by the volatility in commodity prices and the uncertainty of impacts associated with regulatory changes, and changes in operating rules of RTOs. Significant portions of the Energy Trading portfolio are economically hedged. Most financial instruments, physical power and natural gas contracts, and certain environmental contracts are deemed derivatives; whereas, natural gas and environmental inventory, contracts for pipeline transportation, storage assets, and some environmental contracts are not derivatives. As a result, Energy Trading will experience earnings volatility as derivatives are marked-to-market without revaluing the underlying non-derivative contracts and assets. Energy Trading's strategy is to economically manage the price risk of these underlying non-derivative contracts and assets with futures, forwards, swaps, and options. This results in gains and losses that are recognized in different interim and annual accounting periods.

See also the "Fair Value" section herein and Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Fair Value" and "Financial and Other Derivative Instruments," respectively.

CORPORATE AND OTHER

Corporate and Other includes various holding company activities, holds certain non-utility debt, and holds energy-related investments. The 2019 net loss of $116 million represents a decrease of $13 million from the 2018 net loss of $129 million primarily due to lower state income taxes and decreased contributions to not-for-profit organizations, partially offset by higher interest expense and impairment of an equity method investment. The 2018 net loss of $129 million represents an increase of $26 million from the 2017 net loss of $103 million primarily due to a reduction in the corporate tax rate from the TCJA in December 2017, higher interest expense and increased contributions to the DTE Energy Foundation and other not-for-profit organizations, partially offset by the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the reduction in the corporate tax rate from the enactment of the TCJA in 2017.

See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Income Taxes."

 40

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

Cash Requirements

DTE Energy uses cash to maintain and invest in the electric and natural gas utilities, to grow the non-utility businesses, to retire and pay interest on long-term debt, and to pay dividends. DTE Energy believes it will have sufficient internal and external capital resources to fund anticipated capital and operating requirements. DTE Energy expects that cash from operations in 2020 will be approximately $3.0 billion. DTE Energy anticipates base level utility capital investments, including environmental, renewable, and energy waste reduction expenditures; expenditures for non-utility businesses; and contributions to equity method investees in 2020 of approximately $4.5 billion. DTE Energy plans to seek regulatory approval to include utility capital expenditures in regulatory rate base consistent with prior treatment. Capital spending for growth of existing or new non-utility businesses will depend on the existence of opportunities that meet strict risk-return and value creation criteria.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash from Operating Activities

A majority of DTE Energy's operating cash flows are provided by the electric and natural gas utilities, which are significantly influenced by factors such as weather, electric retail access, regulatory deferrals, regulatory outcomes, economic conditions, changes in working capital, and operating costs.

Net cash from operations decreased $31 million in 2019. The reduction is primarily due to a decrease in cash from working capital items, partially offset by an increase in non-cash and non-operating items, primarily Deferred income taxes and Depreciation and amortization.

Net cash from operations increased $563 million in 2018. The increase in operating cash flows reflects an increase in adjustments for non-cash and non-operating items, primarily Depreciation and amortization and working capital adjustments, partially offset by a decrease to Deferred income taxes.

The change in working capital items in 2019 was primarily related to an increase in cash used for Accounts payable and Other current and noncurrent assets and liabilities, partially offset by cash received related to Accounts receivable, Accrued pension and postretirement costs, and Regulatory assets and liabilities. The change in working capital items in 2018 primarily related to increases in cash from Accounts receivable, Accrued pension liability, Derivative assets and liabilities, and Other current and noncurrent assets and liabilities, partially offset by increases of cash used for Equity earnings of equity method investees, Prepaid postretirement benefit costs, Accrued postretirement liability, and Regulatory assets and liabilities.

Cash used for Investing Activities

Cash inflows associated with investing activities are primarily generated from the sale of assets, while cash outflows are the result of plant and equipment expenditures and acquisitions. In any given year, DTE Energy looks to realize cash from under-performing or non-strategic assets or matured, fully valued assets.

Capital spending within the utility businesses is primarily to maintain and improve electric generation and the electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, and to comply with environmental regulations and renewable energy requirements.

 41

Capital spending within the non-utility businesses is primarily for ongoing maintenance, expansion, and growth. DTE Energy looks to make growth investments that meet strict criteria in terms of strategy, management skills, risks, and returns. All new investments are analyzed for their rates of return and cash payback on a risk adjusted basis. DTE Energy has been disciplined in how it deploys capital and will not make investments unless they meet the criteria. For new business lines, DTE Energy initially invests based on research and analysis. DTE Energy starts with a limited investment, evaluates the results, and either expands or exits the business based on those results. In any given year, the amount of growth capital will be determined by the underlying cash flows of DTE Energy, with a clear understanding of any potential impact on its credit ratings.

Net cash used for investing activities increased $2.4 billion in 2019 due primarily to DTE Energy's acquisitions of midstream natural gas assets and renewable energy projects of $2.5 billion, net of cash acquired of $62 million as described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Acquisitions," as well as an increase in Plant and equipment expenditures, partially offset by a reduction in Contributions to equity method investees.

Net cash used for investing activities increased $785 million in 2018 due primarily to an increase in Plant and equipment expenditures and Contributions to equity method investees, principally to NEXUS.

Cash from Financing Activities

DTE Energy relies on both short-term borrowing and long-term financing as a source of funding for capital requirements not satisfied by its operations.

DTE Energy's strategy is to have a targeted debt portfolio blend of fixed and variable interest rates and maturity. DTE Energy targets balance sheet financial metrics to ensure it is consistent with the objective of a strong investment grade debt rating.

Net cash from financing activities increased $2.4 billion in 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in Issuances of long-term debt, equity units, common stock, and Short-term borrowings, partially offset by an increase in Redemptions of long-term debt and Purchases of noncontrolling interests, principally related to SGG. The increased issuances in 2019 were primarily related to the acquisition of midstream natural gas assets. See details disclosed in the "Acquisition Financing" section of Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. of this Report, "Long-Term Debt."

Net cash from financing activities increased $233 million in 2018. The increase was primarily due to the reduction of Redemption of long-term debt and Repurchases of common stock and an increase in Issuance of long-term debt, partially offset by an increase in cash used for repayments of Short-term borrowings and an increase in Dividends on common stock.

Outlook

DTE Energy expects cash flows from operations to increase over the long-term, primarily as a result of growth from the utility and non-utility businesses. Growth in the utilities is expected to be driven primarily by capital spending which will increase the base from which rates are determined. Non-utility growth is expected from additional investments, primarily in the Gas Storage and Pipelines and Power and Industrial Projects segments.

DTE Energy may be impacted by the timing of collection or refund of various recovery and tracking mechanisms as a result of timing of MPSC orders. Energy prices are likely to be a source of volatility with regard to working capital requirements for the foreseeable future. DTE Energy continues its efforts to identify opportunities to improve cash flows through working capital initiatives and maintaining flexibility in the timing and extent of long-term capital projects.

DTE Energy has approximately $687 million in long-term debt, including finance leases, maturing in the next twelve months. The repayment of the debt is expected to be paid through internally generated funds or the issuance of long-term debt.

DTE Energy has approximately $1.6 billion of available liquidity at December 31, 2019, consisting of cash and amounts available under unsecured revolving credit agreements.

DTE Energy expects to issue equity up to $300 million in 2020. At the discretion of management, and depending upon financial market conditions, DTE Energy anticipates up to $185 million of these equity issuances will be made through contributions to the qualified pension plans, including $160 million of DTE Electric contributions. DTE Energy does not anticipate making any contributions to the other postretirement plans in 2020. Any additional equity issuances are expected to be made through other employee benefit plans.

 42

Various subsidiaries and equity investees of DTE Energy have entered into contracts which contain ratings triggers and are guaranteed by DTE Energy. These contracts contain provisions which allow the counterparties to require that DTE Energy post cash or letters of credit as collateral in the event that DTE Energy's credit rating is downgraded below investment grade. Certain of these provisions (known as "hard triggers") state specific circumstances under which DTE Energy can be required to post collateral upon the occurrence of a credit downgrade, while other provisions (known as "soft triggers") are not as specific. For contracts with soft triggers, it is difficult to estimate the amount of collateral which may be requested by counterparties and/or which DTE Energy may ultimately be required to post. The amount of such collateral which could be requested fluctuates based on commodity prices (primarily natural gas, power, and coal) and the provisions and maturities of the underlying transactions. As of December 31, 2019, DTE Energy's contractual obligation to post collateral in the form of cash or letters of credit in the event of a downgrade to below investment grade, under both hard trigger and soft trigger provisions, was $527 million.

DTE Energy believes it will have sufficient operating flexibility, cash resources and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity and to meet future operating cash and capital expenditure needs. However, virtually all DTE Energy's businesses are capital intensive, or require access to capital, and the inability to access adequate capital could adversely impact earnings and cash flows.

See Notes 10, 11, 15, 17, 19, and 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Regulatory Matters," "Income Taxes," "Long-Term Debt," "Short-Term Credit Arrangements and Borrowings," "Commitments and Contingencies," and "Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets," respectively.

 43

Contractual Obligations

The following table details DTE Energy's, including DTE Electric's, contractual obligations for debt redemptions, leases, purchase obligations, and other long-term obligations as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Excludes $34 million of unamortized debt issuance costs.

(c)Excludes amounts associated with full requirements contracts where no stated minimum purchase volume is required.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e)Excludes a power purchase agreement with a non-utility affiliate of DTE Energy.

(f)Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $10 million.

(g)Excludes other long-term liabilities of $220 million not directly derived from contracts or other agreements.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Ratings

Credit ratings are intended to provide banks and capital market participants with a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities. DTE Energy, DTE Electric, and DTE Gas' credit ratings affect their costs of capital and other terms of financing, as well as their ability to access the credit and commercial paper markets. DTE Energy, DTE Electric, and DTE Gas' management believes that the current credit ratings provide sufficient access to capital markets. However, disruptions in the banking and capital markets not specifically related to DTE Energy, DTE Electric, and DTE Gas may affect their ability to access these funding sources or cause an increase in the return required by investors.

As part of the normal course of business, DTE Electric, DTE Gas, and various non-utility subsidiaries of DTE Energy routinely enter into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, natural gas, coal, capacity, storage, and other energy-related products and services. Certain of these contracts contain provisions which allow the counterparties to request that DTE Energy posts cash or letters of credit in the event that the senior unsecured debt rating of DTE Energy is downgraded below investment grade. The amount of such collateral which could be requested fluctuates based upon commodity prices and the provisions and maturities of the underlying transactions and could be substantial. Also, upon a downgrade below investment grade, DTE Energy, DTE Electric, and DTE Gas could have restricted access to the commercial paper market, and if DTE Energy is downgraded below investment grade, the non-utility businesses, especially the Energy Trading and Power and Industrial Projects segments, could be required to restrict operations due to a lack of available liquidity. A downgrade below investment grade could potentially increase the borrowing costs of DTE Energy, DTE Electric, and DTE Gas and their subsidiaries and may limit access to the capital markets. The impact of a downgrade will not affect DTE Energy, DTE Electric, and DTE Gas' ability to comply with existing debt covenants. While DTE Energy, DTE Electric, and DTE Gas currently do not anticipate such a downgrade, they cannot predict the outcome of current or future credit rating agency reviews.

 44

In October 2019, Moody's Investors Service downgraded DTE Energy's unsecured debt rating from Baa1 to Baa2 following DTE Energy's announcement to acquire midstream natural gas assets. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions," for additional information. We do not expect the downgrade to negatively impact DTE Energy's liquidity or access to the capital markets.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of the Registrants' Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Registrants' management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.

Regulation

A significant portion of the Registrants' businesses are subject to regulation. This results in differences in the application of generally accepted accounting principles between regulated and non-regulated businesses. DTE Electric and DTE Gas are required to record regulatory assets and liabilities for certain transactions that would have been treated as revenue or expense in non-regulated businesses. Future regulatory changes or changes in the competitive environment could result in the discontinuance of this accounting treatment for regulatory assets and liabilities for some or all of the Registrants' businesses. The Registrants' management believes that currently available facts support the continued use of regulatory assets and liabilities and that all regulatory assets and liabilities are recoverable or refundable in the current rate environment.

See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Regulatory Matters."

Derivatives

Derivatives are generally recorded at fair value and shown as Derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments are recognized in earnings in the period of change. The normal purchases and normal sales exception requires, among other things, physical delivery in quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. Contracts that are designated as normal purchases and normal sales are not recorded at fair value. Substantially all of the commodity contracts entered into by DTE Electric and DTE Gas meet the criteria specified for this exception.

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date in a principal or most advantageous market. Fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on inputs, which refer broadly to assumptions that market participants use in pricing assets or liabilities. These inputs can be readily observable, market corroborated, or generally unobservable inputs. The Registrants make certain assumptions they believe that market participants would use in pricing assets or liabilities, including assumptions about risk, and the risks inherent in the inputs to valuation techniques. Credit risk of the Registrants and their counterparties is incorporated in the valuation of assets and liabilities through the use of credit reserves, the impact of which was immaterial at December 31, 2019 and 2018. The Registrants believe they use valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable market-based inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.

The fair values the Registrants calculate for their derivatives may change significantly as inputs and assumptions are updated for new information. Actual cash returns realized on derivatives may be different from the results the Registrants estimate using models. As fair value calculations are estimates based largely on commodity prices, the Registrants perform sensitivity analyses on the fair values of forward contracts. See the sensitivity analysis in Item 7A. of this report, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." See also the "Fair Value" section herein.

See Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Fair Value" and "Financial and Other Derivative Instruments," respectively.

Goodwill

Certain of DTE Energy's reporting units have goodwill or allocated goodwill resulting from business combinations. DTE Energy performs an impairment test for each of the reporting units with goodwill annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill may be impaired.

 45

In performing Step 1 of the impairment test, DTE Energy compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value including goodwill. If the carrying value including goodwill were to exceed the fair value of a reporting unit, Step 2 of the test would be performed. Step 2 of the impairment test requires the carrying value of goodwill to be reduced to its fair value, if lower, as of the test date.

For Step 1 of the test, DTE Energy estimates the reporting unit's fair value using standard valuation techniques, including techniques which use estimates of projected future results and cash flows to be generated by the reporting unit. For certain reporting units, the fair values were calculated using a weighted combination of the income approach, which estimates fair value based on discounted cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates fair value based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. The income approach includes a terminal value that utilizes an assumed long-term growth rate approach, which incorporates management's assumptions regarding sustainable long-term growth of the reporting units. The income approach cash flow valuations involve a number of estimates that require broad assumptions and significant judgment by management regarding future performance. 

One of the most significant assumptions utilized in determining the fair value of reporting units under the market approach is implied market multiples for certain peer companies. Management selects comparable peers based on each peer’s primary business mix, operations, and market capitalization compared to the applicable reporting unit and calculates implied market multiples based on available projected earnings guidance and peer company market values as of the test date. 

DTE Energy performs an annual impairment test each October. In between annual tests, DTE Energy monitors its estimates and assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows, including the impact of movements in market indicators in future quarters, and will update the impairment analyses if a triggering event occurs. While DTE Energy believes the assumptions are reasonable, actual results may differ from projections. To the extent projected results or cash flows are revised downward, the reporting unit may be required to write down all or a portion of its goodwill, which would adversely impact DTE Energy's earnings.

DTE Energy performed its annual impairment test as of October 1, 2019 and determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, and no impairment existed.

The results of the test and key estimates that were incorporated are as follows as of the October 1, 2019 valuation date:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]______________________________________

(a)Percentage by which the fair value of equity of the reporting unit would need to decline to equal its carrying value, including goodwill.

(b)Discounted cash flows (DCF) incorporated 2020-2024 projected cash flows plus a calculated terminal value. For each of the reporting units, DTE Energy capitalized the terminal year cash flows at the weighted average costs of capital (WACC) less an assumed long-term growth rate of 2.0%. Management applied equal weighting to the DCF and market multiples analysis, where applicable, to determine the fair value of the respective reporting units.

(c)Due to lack of market comparable information for the Power & Industrial and Energy Trading reporting units, DTE Energy did not perform a market multiples analysis.

DTE Energy recognized additional goodwill of $171 million at the Gas Storage and Pipelines reporting unit in the fourth quarter of 2019 as a result of the Blue Union and LEAP acquisition. For further discussion, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions." 

 46

Business Combinations

The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. The fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are determined based on significant estimates and assumptions, including projected timing and amount of future cash flows and discount rates reflecting risk inherent in future market prices. In some cases, DTE Energy engages independent third-party valuation firms to assist in determining the fair values. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions."

Long-Lived Assets

The Registrants evaluate the carrying value of long-lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long-lived assets are deteriorating business climate, condition of the asset, or plans to dispose of the asset before the end of its useful life. The review of long-lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level for which independent cash flows of long-lived assets can be identified from other groups of assets and liabilities. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long-lived asset is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the long-lived asset over its fair value. An impairment would require the Registrants to reduce both the long-lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment, which would adversely impact their earnings.

Pension and Other Postretirement Costs

DTE Energy sponsors defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for eligible employees of the Registrants. The measurement of the plan obligations and cost of providing benefits under these plans involve various factors, including numerous assumptions and accounting elections. When determining the various assumptions that are required, DTE Energy considers historical information as well as future expectations. The benefit costs are affected by, among other things, the actual rate of return on plan assets, the long-term expected return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, benefit plan design changes, and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs attributed to the segments are included with labor costs and ultimately allocated to projects within the segments, some of which are capitalized.

DTE Energy had pension costs of $112 million in 2019, $148 million in 2018, and $172 million in 2017. Other postretirement benefit credits were $1 million in 2019, $36 million in 2018, and $31 million in 2017. Pension costs and other postretirement benefit credits for 2019 were calculated based upon several actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 7.30% for the pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, DTE Energy evaluated asset class risk and return expectations, as well as inflation assumptions. Projected returns are based on broad equity, bond, and other markets. DTE Energy's 2020 expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets is based on an asset allocation assumption utilizing active and passive investment management of 35% in equity markets, 42% in fixed income markets, including long duration bonds, and 23% invested in other assets. DTE Energy's 2020 expected long-term rate of return on other postretirement plan assets is based on an asset allocation assumption utilizing active and passive investment management of 35% in equity markets, 37% in fixed income markets, and 28% invested in other assets. Because of market volatility, DTE Energy periodically reviews the asset allocation and rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. DTE Energy is lowering its long-term rate of return assumption for the pension plans to 7.10% and lowering the other postretirement plans to 7.20% for 2020. DTE Energy believes these rates are reasonable assumptions for the long-term rates of return on the plans' assets for 2020 given their respective asset allocations and DTE's capital market expectations. DTE Energy will continue to evaluate the actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually.

 47

DTE Energy calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the expected return on plan assets by the market-related value (MRV) of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments that are to be made during the year. Current accounting rules provide that the MRV of plan assets can be either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For the pension plans, DTE Energy uses a calculated value when determining the MRV of the pension plan assets and recognizes changes in fair value over a three-year period. Accordingly, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Favorable asset performance in 2019 resulted in unrecognized net gains. As of December 31, 2019, DTE Energy had $186 million of cumulative gains related to investment performance in prior years, that were not yet recognized in the calculation of the MRV of pension assets. For the other postretirement benefit plans, DTE Energy uses fair value when determining the MRV of other postretirement benefit plan assets, therefore all investment gains and losses have been recognized in the calculation of MRV for these plans.

The discount rate that DTE Energy utilizes for determining future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is based on a yield curve approach and a review of bonds that receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized rating agency. The yield curve approach matches projected pension plan and other postretirement benefit payment streams with bond portfolios reflecting actual liability duration unique to the plans. The discount rate determined on this basis was 3.28% for the pension and 3.29% for the other postretirement plans at December 31, 2019 compared to 4.40% for both the pension and other postretirement plans at December 31, 2018.

DTE Energy changed the mortality assumption as of December 31, 2019 to reflect the updated MP-2019 projection scale. The mortality assumptions used at December 31, 2019 are the RP-2014 mortality table projected back to 2006 using Scale MP-2014, projected forward to 2015 using Scale MP-2017 and projected beyond 2015 using Scale MP-2019 with generational projection. The base mortality tables vary by type of plan, employee's union status and employment status, with additional adjustments to reflect the actual experience and credibility of each population.

DTE Energy estimates the 2020 total pension costs will be approximately $120 million in 2020, compared to $112 million in 2019. The increase in total pension costs is primarily due to lower discount rates, offset by favorable asset returns. The 2020 other postretirement benefit credit will be approximately $40 million compared to $1 million in 2019.

The health care trend rates for DTE Energy assume 6.75% for pre-65 participants and 7.25% for post-65 participants for 2020, trending down to 4.50% for both pre-65 and post-65 participants in 2032.

Future actual pension and other postretirement benefit costs or credits will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates, and various other factors related to plan design.

Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets by one percentage point would have increased the 2019 pension costs by approximately $45 million. Lowering the discount rate and the salary increase assumptions by one percentage point would have increased the 2019 pension costs by approximately $22 million. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by one percentage point would have decreased the 2019 other postretirement credit by approximately $17 million. Lowering the discount rate and the salary increase assumptions by one percentage point would have decreased the 2019 other postretirement credit by approximately $21 million. Lowering the health care cost trend assumptions by one percentage point would have increased the other postretirement credit for 2019 by approximately $4 million.

The value of the qualified pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets was $6.8 billion at December 31, 2019 and $6.0 billion at December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2019, DTE Energy's qualified pension plans were underfunded by $677 million and its other postretirement benefit plans were overfunded by $68 million. In 2019, the funded status of the pension plans improved as plan sponsor contributions and favorable asset returns were partially offset by a decrease in discount rates. The funded status of the other postretirement benefit plans improved as favorable asset returns and favorable healthcare experience were partially offset by a decrease in discount rates.

 48

Pension and other postretirement costs and pension cash funding requirements may increase in future years without typical returns in the financial markets. DTE Energy made contributions to its qualified pension plans of $150 million in 2019 and $175 million in 2018. At the discretion of management, consistent with the Pension Protection Act of 2006, and depending upon financial market conditions, DTE Energy anticipates making contributions to its qualified pension plans of up to $185 million in 2020 and up to $458 million over the next five years. DTE Energy did not make other postretirement benefit plan contributions in 2019 or 2018. DTE Energy does not anticipate making any contributions to its other postretirement plans in 2020 or over the next five years. The planned pension contributions will be made in cash and/or DTE Energy common stock.

See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets."

Legal Reserves

The Registrants are involved in various legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. The Registrants regularly assess their liabilities and contingencies in connection with asserted or potential matters and establish reserves when appropriate. Legal reserves are based upon the Registrants' management’s assessment of pending and threatened legal proceedings and claims against the Registrants.

Accounting for Tax Obligations

The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. The Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two-step approach, a more-likely-than-not recognition criterion, and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If the benefit does not meet the more likely than not criteria for being sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. The Registrants also have non-income tax obligations related to property, sales and use, and employment-related taxes, and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters.

Accounting for tax obligations requires judgments, including assessing whether tax benefits are more likely than not to be sustained, and estimating reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carry-forwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are appropriate. The ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Registrants' Consolidated Financial Statements, and such adjustments could be material.

See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Income Taxes."

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "New Accounting Pronouncements."

FAIR VALUE

Derivatives are generally recorded at fair value and shown as Derivative assets or liabilities. Contracts DTE Energy typically classifies as derivative instruments include power, natural gas, oil, and certain coal forwards, futures, options and swaps, and foreign currency exchange contracts. Items DTE Energy does not generally account for as derivatives include natural gas inventory, pipeline transportation contracts, renewable energy credits, and storage assets. See Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Fair Value" and "Financial and Other Derivative Instruments," respectively.

The tables below do not include the expected earnings impact of non-derivative natural gas storage, transportation, certain power contracts, and renewable energy credits which are subject to accrual accounting. Consequently, gains and losses from these positions may not match with the related physical and financial hedging instruments in some reporting periods, resulting in volatility in the Registrants' reported period-by-period earnings; however, the financial impact of the timing differences will reverse at the time of physical delivery and/or settlement.

 49

The Registrants manage their MTM risk on a portfolio basis based upon the delivery period of their contracts and the individual components of the risks within each contract. Accordingly, the Registrants record and manage the energy purchase and sale obligations under their contracts in separate components based on the commodity (e.g. electricity or natural gas), the product (e.g. electricity for delivery during peak or off-peak hours), the delivery location (e.g. by region), the risk profile (e.g. forward or option), and the delivery period (e.g. by month and year).

The Registrants have established a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value in three broad levels. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). For further discussion of the fair value hierarchy, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Fair Value."

The following table provides details on changes in DTE Energy's MTM net asset (or liability) position:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table below shows the maturity of DTE Energy's MTM positions. The positions from 2023 and beyond principally represent longer tenor gas structured transactions:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk