ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

For identification and discussion of the most significant risks applicable to the Company and its business, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Certain information about Eastman's executive officers is provided below:

Mark J. Costa, age 53, is Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Eastman Chemical Company Board of Directors. Mr. Costa joined the Company in June 2006 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Marketing; was appointed Executive Vice President, Polymers Business Group Head and Chief Marketing Officer in August 2008; was appointed Executive Vice President, Specialty Polymers, Coatings and Adhesives, and Chief Marketing Officer in May 2009; and became President and a member of the Board of Directors in May 2013. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Costa was a senior partner with Monitor Group, a global management consulting firm. He joined Monitor in 1988, and his experience included corporate and business unit strategies, asset portfolio strategies, innovation and marketing, and channel strategies across a wide range of industries. Mr. Costa was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 2014 and was named Board Chair effective July 2014.

Curtis E. Espeland, age 55, is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Espeland joined Eastman in 1996, and has served in various financial management positions of increasing responsibility, including Director of Internal Audit; Director of Finance, Asia Pacific; Director of Corporate Planning and Forecasting; Vice President and Controller; Vice President, Finance, Eastman Division; Vice President, Finance, Polymers; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2008 until December 2013. He served as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer from December 2002 to 2008 and was appointed to his current position effective January 2014. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. Espeland was an audit and business advisory manager with Arthur Andersen LLP in the United States, Eastern Europe, and Australia. (As previously reported, on February 28, 2020 Mr. Espeland will be succeeded as Chief Financial Officer by current Vice President, Finance, William T. McLain, Jr., and will continue to serve as an executive officer until his retirement in mid-2020. Mr. McLain, age 47, joined Eastman in 2000 and has served in high-level finance and accounting roles throughout the organization in the United States, Asia, and Europe. Most recently Mr. McLain served as Vice President, Finance. He has previously served as Corporate Controller; Treasurer; and Director, Finance for Asia Pacific. Prior to Eastman, Mr. McLain worked for the public accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.)

Brad A. Lich, age 52, is Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, with responsibility for the AM and Fibers segments, outside-U.S. regional business leadership, and the marketing, sales, pricing, and procurement organizations. Mr. Lich joined Eastman in 2001 as Director of Global Product Management and Marketing for the Coatings business. Other positions of increasing responsibility followed, including General Manager of Emerging Markets of the former Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI") segment. In 2006, Mr. Lich became Vice President of Global Marketing with direct responsibility for company-wide global marketing functions. In 2008, Mr. Lich was appointed Vice President and General Manager of the CASPI segment, and in 2012 was appointed Vice President and General Manager of the AFP segment. In January 2014, Mr. Lich was appointed Executive Vice President, with responsibility for the AFP and AM segments and the marketing, sales, and pricing organizations. In March 2016, Mr. Lich assumed executive responsibility for outside-U.S. regional business leadership. Mr. Lich was appointed to his current position effective July 2016.

Lucian Boldea, age 48, is Executive Vice President with responsibility for the AFP and CI segments. Dr. Boldea joined Eastman in 1997 as a chemist. During his career at Eastman, he has held various positions in R&D, licensing, business management, and corporate growth platforms leadership in the AM segment. Between 2012 and 2015 he served as Vice President and General Manager, Specialty Plastics, in the AM segment. In 2015, he was appointed Group Vice President and General Manager of the AFP segment and became Senior Vice President of the AFP segment in July 2016. Dr. Boldea was appointed to his current position effective January 2019.

22

Mark K. Cox, age 54, is Senior Vice President and Chief Manufacturing, Supply Chain, and Engineering Officer. Mr. Cox joined Eastman in 1986 and has served in a variety of management positions, including business management, manufacturing, and technology leadership roles. In August 2008, Mr. Cox was appointed Vice President, Chemicals and Fibers Technology. Beginning in May 2009, Mr. Cox served as Vice President, Chemicals, Fibers, and Performance Polymers Technology. He was appointed Vice President, Worldwide Engineering and Construction in August 2010, appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Manufacturing and Engineering Officer effective January 2014, and to his current position effective March 2016.

Stephen G. Crawford, age 55, is Senior Vice President and Chief Technology and Sustainability Officer, with executive responsibility for corporate innovation and sustainability. Mr. Crawford joined Eastman in 1984 and held leadership positions of increasing responsibility in both the manufacturing and technology organizations. From 2007 until January 2014 he served as Vice President of Global R&D in the AM and AFP segments. He was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer effective January 2014, and to his current position effective October 2019.

Clark L. Jordan, age 55, is Vice President, Interim Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Jordan has overall responsibility for Eastman's Legal, Corporate Health, Safety, Environmental, Security, Product Safety, Regulatory Affairs, and Global Trade Compliance organizations. Mr. Jordan joined Eastman in 1995 and was an in-house attorney until 1997. In 2011, after holding various positions in private legal practice, Mr. Jordan returned to Eastman as Director Global Business Conduct and Senior Business Counsel. Mr. Jordan was appointed Vice President, Global Trade Compliance and Assistant General Counsel effective February 2015, and to his current position in August 2019.

Perry Stuckey III, age 60, is Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Stuckey joined Eastman in 2011 as Vice President, Global Human Resources, and was responsible for Eastman's human resources strategy and services worldwide. Mr. Stuckey's work experience includes a variety of global human resource management positions in manufacturing, industrial automation, and bio-technology companies, including Hill-Rom Company, Rockwell Automation, and Monsanto Company. Mr. Stuckey was appointed to his current position in January 2013.

Scott V. King, age 51, is Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Since joining Eastman in 1999 as Manager, Corporate Consolidations and External Reporting, Mr. King has held various positions of increasing responsibility in the financial organization. He was first appointed Corporate Controller in August 2007 and has served as Chief Accounting Officer since September 2008. Prior to joining Eastman, Mr. King was an audit and business advisory manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

ITEM 2.PROPERTIES