PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

5

CORPORATE OVERVIEW

Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") is a global advanced materials and specialty additives company that produces a broad range of products found in items people use every day. Eastman began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing chemicals for Eastman Kodak Company's photographic business and became a public company, incorporated in Delaware, on December 31, 1993. Eastman has 50 manufacturing facilities and equity interests in three manufacturing joint ventures in 15 countries that supply products to customers throughout the world. See Item 2. "Properties" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report"). The Company's headquarters and largest manufacturing facility are located in Kingsport, Tennessee. With a robust portfolio of specialty businesses, Eastman works with customers to deliver innovative products and solutions while maintaining a commitment to safety and sustainability. Eastman's businesses are managed and reported in four operating segments: Additives & Functional Products, Advanced Materials, Chemical Intermediates, and Fibers. See "Business Segments". 

In the first years as a stand-alone company, Eastman was diversified between commodity and more specialty chemical businesses. Beginning in 2004, the Company refocused its strategy and changed its businesses and portfolio of products, first by the divestiture and discontinuance of under-performing assets and commodity businesses and initiatives (including divestiture in 2004 of resins, inks, and monomers product lines, divestiture in 2006 of the polyethylene business, and divestiture from 2007 to 2010 of the polyethylene terephthalate assets and business). The Company then pursued growth through the development and acquisition of more specialty businesses and product lines by inorganic acquisition and integration (including the acquisition of Solutia, Inc., a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals, in 2012, and Taminco Corporation, a global specialty chemical company, in 2014) and organic development and commercialization of new and enhanced technologies and products.

Eastman currently uses an innovation-driven growth model which consists of leveraging world class scalable technology platforms, delivering differentiated application development capabilities, and relentlessly engaging the market. The Company's world class technology platforms form the foundation of sustainable growth by differentiated products through significant scale advantages in research and development ("R&D") and advantaged global market access. Differentiated application development converts market complexity into opportunities for growth and accelerates innovation by enabling a deeper understanding of the value of Eastman's products and how they perform within customers' and end-user products. Key areas of application development include thermoplastic conversion, functional films, coatings formulations, rubber additive formulations, adhesives formulations, nonwovens and textiles, animal nutrition, and chemical and plastics recycling technologies. The Company engages the market by working directly with customers and downstream users, targeting attractive niche markets, and leveraging disruptive macro trends. Management believes that these elements of the Company's innovation-driven growth model, combined with disciplined portfolio management and balanced capital deployment, will result in consistent, sustainable earnings growth and strong cash flow. 

In 2019, the Company reported sales revenue of $9.3 billion, earnings before interest and taxes ("EBIT") of $1.1 billion, and net earnings of $0.8 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $5.48. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.5 billion. Excluding non-core and unusual items, adjusted EBIT was $1.4 billion and adjusted diluted earnings per share were $7.13. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report for reconciliation of financial measures under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") to non-GAAP financial measures, description of excluded items, and related information. For Company sales revenue by end-market, see Exhibit 99.01 "2019 Company and Segment Sales Revenue by End-Use Market" of this Annual Report. Approximately 60 percent of 2019 sales revenue was generated from outside the United States and Canada region. For additional information regarding sales by customer location and by segment, see Note 19, "Segment and Regional Sales Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Summary by Operating Segment", "Sales by Customer Location", and "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report.

6

BUSINESS STRATEGY

Eastman's objective is to be an outperforming specialty chemical company with consistent, sustainable earnings growth and strong cash flow. Integral to the Company's strategy for growth is leveraging its heritage expertise and innovation within its cellulose and acetyl, olefins, polyester, and alkylamine chemistries. For each of these "streams", the Company has developed and acquired a combination of assets and technologies that combine scale and integration across multiple manufacturing units and sites as a competitive advantage. Management uses an innovation-driven growth model which consists of leveraging world class scalable technology platforms, delivering differentiated application development, and relentlessly engaging the market. The Company sells differentiated products into diverse markets and geographic regions and engages the market by working directly with customers and downstream users to meet their needs in existing and new niche markets. Management believes that this innovation-driven growth model will result in consistent financial results by leveraging the Company's proven technology capabilities to improve product mix, increasing emphasis on specialty businesses, and sustaining and expanding leadership in attractive niche markets. A consistent increase in earnings is expected to result from both organic growth initiatives and strategic inorganic initiatives.

Innovation

Management is pursuing specific opportunities to leverage Eastman's innovation-driven growth model for continued near-term and long-term greater than end-market growth by both sustaining the Company's leadership in existing markets and expanding into new markets. Recently developed, introduced, or commercialized innovation products, applications, and technologies include the following:

•Plastic waste feedstock procurement and commercial-scale operations of proprietary innovative chemical recycling carbon renewal technology which breaks down waste plastics into molecular building blocks (carbon monoxide and hydrogen) for feedstocks of acetyl manufacturing stream products. 

•Introduction of advanced circular recycling methanolysis technology to depolymerize waste plastics to re-create specialty monomers for use in manufacture of specialty copolyester products sold into a wide array of end markets.

•Eastman CORE (trademark and patent pending), a differentiated analytics-based software platform that provides Eastman's high performance paint protection film and window film product customers and end-users with access to digital service to improve customer experience and accelerate category development.

•Saflex™ E series, an enhanced acoustic interlayer product, is formulated to dampen sound, particularly in the high frequency range, and provides improved performance compared to traditional acoustic interlayers.

•Tetrashield™ performance polyester resins based on proprietary monomer technology with improved performance and sustainability features for automotive coatings, industrial, and food packaging end-users.

•Impera™ tire additives performance resins that enable tire manufacturers to improve the safety and handling of tires, balance tire performance and fuel economy needs, and achieve superior levels of tack for tire construction.

•Naia™, a yarn product for the apparel market developed from Eastman's proprietary cellulose ester technology.

•Regalite™ UltraPure Platform, a new class of tackifying hydrocarbon adhesives resins with enhanced features addressing hygiene end-use product consumer odor, volatile organic compounds and trace chemicals concerns.

Sustainability

Central to Eastman's innovation-driven growth model is our dedication to enhance the quality of life in a material way with a sustainability strategy to create more value than the resources used by innovating to deliver consumer choices that will sustain and protect our world. Management approaches sustainability as a source of competitive strength by focusing its innovation strategy on opportunities where disruptive macro trends align with the Company's differentiated technology platforms and applications development capabilities to develop innovative products, applications, and technologies that enable customers' development and sales of sustainable products. Eastman's sustainability-related growth initiatives include targeted products utilizing technology that enhance end-use product durability, material usage, recyclability, and health and safety impact characteristics to reduce unnecessary waste, pollution, and greenhouse gas emissions associated with climate change.

7

The Company's long history of technical expertise in chemical processes and polymer science position it to provide innovative solutions to some of the world's most complex problems, contributing to development of a more "circular economy" - an economic system in which resource input and waste generation, emissions, and energy usage are reduced by slowing, closing, and narrowing energy and material loops through long-lasting design, maintenance, repair, reuse, remanufacturing, refurbishing, recycling, and upcycling. The Company's sustainable innovation initiatives include mechanical recycling, biodegradation, gasification, and chemical recycling and strategic collaborations with end-user markets. In 2019, the Company announced its use of its unique platform of solutions to address the challenges of plastic waste in the environment with circular chemical and plastics recycling, carbon renewal, and methanolysis technologies. Eastman's scale and integration provides a unique opportunity to accelerate the use of these advanced circular recycling technologies and make a meaningful positive impact on the environment.

Examples of Eastman sustainable solutions within identified disruptive macro trends include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•circular economy: carbon renewal and methanolysis chemical and plastics recycling technologies.

The Company leverages core competencies in polyesters, cellulose esters, thermoplastic processing, textile capability, and in-house application expertise for use in a wide range of applications to provide sustainable solutions to markets which are in search of new and improved products.

FINANCIAL STRATEGY

In its management of the Company's businesses and growth initiatives, management is committed to maintaining a strong financial position with appropriate financial flexibility and liquidity. Management believes maintaining a financial profile that supports an investment grade credit rating is important to its long-term strategy and financial flexibility. The Company employs a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation and deployment of cash. The priorities for uses of available cash include payment of the quarterly dividend, repayment of debt, funding targeted growth opportunities, and repurchasing shares. Management expects that the combination of continued strong cash flow generation, a strong balance sheet, and sufficient liquidity will continue to provide flexibility to pursue growth initiatives.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

The Company's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Advanced Materials ("AM"), Chemical Intermediates ("CI"), and Fibers. This organizational structure is based on the management of the strategies, operating models, and sales channels that the various businesses employ and supports the Company's continued transformation towards a more specialty portfolio of products. For segment sales revenue and earnings and segment product lines revenues, see Note 19, "Segment and Regional Sales Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Summary by Operating Segment" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. For identification of manufacturing facilities by segment, see Item 2, "Properties" of this Annual Report. 

ADDITIVES & FUNCTIONAL PRODUCTS SEGMENT

Overview

In the AFP segment, the Company manufactures chemicals for products in the transportation, consumables, building and construction, animal nutrition, crop protection, energy, personal and home care, and other markets. Key technology platforms in this segment are cellulose esters, polyester polymers, insoluble sulfur, hydrocarbon resins, alkylamine derivatives, and propylene derivatives. 

8

The AFP segment's sales growth is typically above annual industrial production growth due to innovation and enhanced commercial execution with sales to a robust set of end-markets. The segment is focused on producing high-value additives that provide critical functionality but which comprise a small percentage of total customer product cost. The segment principally competes on the differentiated performance characteristics of its products and through leveraging its strong customer base and long-standing customer relationships to promote substantial recurring business and product development. A critical element of the AFP segment's success is its close formulation collaboration with customers through advantaged application development capability.

Principal Products

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

9

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Exhibit 99.01 for AFP segment revenue by end-use market.

Strategy

Management applies Eastman's innovation-driven growth model in the AFP segment by leveraging proprietary technologies for the continued development of innovative product offerings and focusing growth efforts on further expanding end-markets such as transportation, building and construction, consumables, industrial applications, animal nutrition, care chemicals, crop protection, and energy. Management believes that the ability to leverage the AFP segment's research, differentiated application development, and production capabilities across multiple markets uniquely positions it to meet evolving needs to improve the quality and performance of its customers' products. For example, tire performance labeling regulations in various parts of the world and competitive pressure favoring performance over cost are causing tire manufacturers to simultaneously improve conflicting tire attributes. Eastman's tire additives technology helps tire manufacturers overcome common compromises often observed between wet grip and rolling resistance. The Company is also developing new technologies such as polyester resins for coatings, sustainable solvents, and hydrocarbon resins for tires to address identified customer and end-user desired features.

Eastman's global manufacturing presence is a key element of the AFP segment's growth strategy. For example, the segment expects to capitalize on industrial growth in Asia from its manufacturing capacity expansion in Kuantan, Malaysia and cellulose ester products sourced from the Company's low-cost cellulose and acetyl manufacturing stream in North America. 

10

In 2019, the AFP segment:

•advanced growth and innovation of Regalite™ UltraPure hydrocarbon resin, a new class of clean tackifying hydrocarbon resins, through a capacity expansion at the Middelburg, Netherlands manufacturing site; 

•acquired the Marlotherm™ heat transfer assets in Marl, Germany and the related formulations, intellectual property, and customer contracts, as a targeted addition to the specialty fluids business;

•advanced growth of Impera™ resins through capacity expansions for the production of performance resins for tires at both the Middelburg, Netherlands, and Jefferson, Pennsylvania, manufacturing sites to serve demand from tire manufacturers around the world for product solutions that enable improved safety, efficiency, and performance; 

•continued to enhance our ability to serve the global customer base in low volatile organic compound ("VOC") coatings and other markets by completing the final phase of a ketones capacity expansion at the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing site in fourth quarter 2019; and 

•responded to growing demand for purified water and sustainable waste water treatment across the globe with world scale production units for Dimethylaminoethanol ("DMAE"/"DMEA") in Europe (Belgium) and North America (Louisiana) and decided to expand capacity in China to respond to stricter regulation and rapidly growing demand in Asia (DMAE is used as a key component into flocculants that are critical for municipal and industrial water treatments). 

The AFP segment is pursuing specific opportunities to leverage Eastman's innovation-driven growth model to create greater than end-market growth by both sustaining the Company's leadership in existing markets and expanding into new markets. Examples of recent product innovation within the AFP segment include Tetrashield™ performance polyester resins based on proprietary monomer technology, Impera™ high performance resins for tires, Regalite™ UltraPure Platform addressing consumer concerns associated with odor, volatile organic compounds and trace chemicals in the hygiene industry, Aerafin™ polymer developed from proprietary olefin technology, and care chemicals alkylamine derivatives including state-of-the-art water treatment solutions. 

In response to market and business conditions, management is evaluating strategic alternatives for certain businesses and product lines within the AFP segment, including certain adhesives resins, tire additives, and animal nutrition products constituting approximately one-third of segment revenue. Options being considered include restructuring and cost management actions, partnerships or other arrangements with third-parties, or divestments.

ADVANCED MATERIALS SEGMENT

Overview

In the AM segment, the Company produces and markets polymers, films, and plastics with differentiated performance properties for value-added end-uses in transportation, consumables, building and construction, durable goods, and health and wellness markets. Key technology platforms for this segment include cellulose esters, copolyesters, and polyvinyl butyral ("PVB") and polyester films. 

Eastman's technical, application development, and market development capabilities enable the AM segment to modify its polymers, films, and plastics to control and customize their final properties for development of new applications with enhanced functionality. For example, Tritan™ copolyesters are a leading solution for food contact applications due to their performance and processing attributes and Bisphenol A ("BPA") free properties. The Saflex™ Q Series product line is a leading acoustic solution for architectural and automotive applications. The Company also maintains a leading solar control technology position in the window film market through the use of high performance sputter coatings which enhance solar heat rejection while maintaining superior optical properties. The segment principally competes on differentiated technology and application development capabilities. Management believes the AM segment's competitive advantages also include long-term customer relationships, vertical integration and scale in manufacturing, and leading market positions.

11

Principal Products

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Exhibit 99.01 for AM segment revenue by end-use market.

Strategy

Management applies Eastman's innovation-driven growth model in the AM segment by leveraging innovation and technology platforms into new and multi-generational products and applications to accelerate AM segment growth and leverage its manufacturing capacity. The segment continues to expand its portfolio of higher margin products in attractive end-markets. Through Eastman's advantaged asset position and expertise in applications development, management believes that the AM segment is well positioned for continued future growth. The advanced interlayers product lines, including acoustic and HUD sheet interlayer products, leverage Eastman's global presence to supply industry leading innovations to automotive and architectural end-markets by collaborating with global and large regional customers. In the automotive end-market, the performance films product line has industry leading technologies, recognized brands, and what management believes is one of the largest distribution and dealer networks which, when combined, position Eastman for further growth, particularly in leading automotive markets such as North America and Asia. The segment's product portfolio is aligned with underlying energy efficiency trends in both automotive and architectural markets. Additionally, the AM segment is positioned to benefit from recent Eastman polyesters stream sustainability innovations by leveraging advanced circular recycling technology to enable various waste plastics to be recycled into specialty copolyester products.

The AM segment expects to continue to improve its product mix from increased sales of premium products, including Tritan™ copolyester, Visualize™ material, Saflex™ Q acoustic series, Saflex™ HUD interlayer products, LLumar™, V-KOOL™, and SunTek™ window and protective films. 

12

In 2019, the AM segment: 

•continued the growth of Tritan™ copolyester in the durable goods and health and wellness markets, supported by continued market and application development;

•strengthened growth in automotive paint protection films in North America and China through an improved sales channel, marketing, and commercial execution strategies and capabilities; 

•finalized development and announced the launch of Eastman CORE (trademark and patent pending) next generation analytics-based software platform for automotive window and paint protection film products, enabling more efficient application and overall business management for dealers; and 

•developed and enhanced Eastman's sustainability capabilities and commercial opportunities, including strategic collaborations with third parties to secure a consistent source of recyclable copolyester feedstock and to innovate new sustainable specialty plastic solutions.

The AM segment is pursuing specific opportunities to leverage Eastman's innovation-driven growth model to create greater than end-market growth by both sustaining the Company's leadership in existing markets and expanding into new markets. Product innovation continues to be a focus, including the recent introduction of Treva™, a cellulose-based engineering bioplastic.

CHEMICAL INTERMEDIATES SEGMENT

Overview

The CI segment leverages large scale and vertical integration from the cellulose and acetyl, olefins, and alkylamines streams to support the Company's specialty operating segments with advantaged cost positions. The CI segment sells excess intermediates beyond the Company's internal specialty needs into markets such as industrial chemicals and processing, building and construction, health and wellness, and agrochemicals. Key technology platforms include acetyls, oxos, plasticizers, polyesters, and alkylamines. 

The CI segment product lines benefit from competitive cost positions primarily resulting from the use of and access to lower cost raw materials, and the Company's scale, technology, and operational excellence. Examples include coal used in the production of cellulose and acetyl stream product lines, feedstocks used in the production of olefin derivative product lines such as oxo alcohols and plasticizers, and ammonia and methanol used to manufacture methylamines. The CI segment also provides superior reliability to customers through its backward integration into readily available raw materials, such as propane, ethane, coal, and propylene. In addition to a competitive cost position, the plasticizers business expects to continue to benefit from the growth in relative use of non-phthalate rather than phthalate plasticizers in the United States, Canada, and Europe.

Several CI segment product lines are affected by cyclicality, most notably olefin and acetyl-based products. See "Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Manufacturing Streams". This cyclicality is caused by periods of supply and demand imbalance, when either incremental capacity additions are not offset by corresponding increases in demand, or when demand exceeds existing supply. While management continues to take steps to reduce the impact of the trough of these cycles, future results are expected to occasionally fluctuate due to both general economic conditions and industry supply and demand.

13

Principal Products

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Exhibit 99.01 for CI segment revenue by end-use market.

Strategy

To maintain and enhance its status as a low-cost producer and optimize earnings, the CI segment continuously focuses on cost control, operational efficiency, and capacity utilization. This includes focusing on products used internally by other operating segments, thereby supporting growth in specialty product lines throughout the Company, and also external licensing opportunities. Through the CI segment, the Company has leveraged the advantage of its highly integrated manufacturing facilities. The Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility allows for the production of acetic anhydride and other acetyl derivatives from coal rather than natural gas or other petroleum feedstocks. At the Longview, Texas manufacturing site, Eastman uses its proprietary oxo technology in one of the world's largest single-site oxo butyraldehyde manufacturing facilities to produce a wide range of alcohols and other derivative products utilizing local propane and ethane supplies and purchased propylene. The Pace, Florida manufacturing facility, which uses ammonia and methanol feedstocks, is the largest methylamine production site in the world. These integrated facilities, combined with large scale production processes and a continuous focus on additional process improvements, allow the CI segment product lines to remain cost competitive and, for some products, cost-advantaged as compared to competitors.

In 2018, the Company completed modifications to the olefin cracking units at the Longview, Texas manufacturing site. These modifications allowed for the introduction of refinery-grade propylene ("RGP") into the feedstock mix while also reducing the amount of other purchased feedstocks. This feedstock shift resulted in a significant decrease in ethylene production and excess ethylene sales in 2019, while maintaining historical levels of propylene production. The RGP project provided the flexibility to significantly reduce the Company's participation in the merchant ethylene market, while retaining a cost-advantaged integrated propylene position to support specialty derivatives throughout the Company. 

14

FIBERS SEGMENT

Overview 

In the Fibers segment, Eastman manufactures and sells Estron™ acetate tow and Estrobond™ triacetin plasticizers for use in filtration media, primarily cigarette filters; Estron™ natural (undyed), Chromspun™ solution-dyed acetate yarns, Naia™ cellulosic fibers and yarn for use in apparel, home furnishings, and industrial fabrics; nonwovens for use in filtration and friction media, used primarily in transportation, industrial, and agricultural markets; and cellulose acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber producers. Eastman is one of the world's two largest suppliers of acetate tow and has been a market leader in the manufacture and sale of acetate tow since it began production in the early 1950s. The Company is the world's largest producer of acetate yarn and has been in this business for over 85 years. 

The largest 10 Fibers segment customers accounted for approximately 70 percent of the segment's 2019 sales revenue, and include multinational as well as regional cigarette producers, fabric manufacturers, and other acetate fiber producers. 

The Company's long history and experience in fibers markets are reflected in the Fibers segment's operating expertise, both within the Company and in support of its customers' processes. The Fibers segment's knowledge of the industry and of customers' processes allows it to assist its customers in maximizing their processing efficiencies, promoting repeat sales, and developing mutually beneficial, long-term customer relationships.

The Company's fully integrated fibers manufacturing process employs unique technology that allows it to use a broad range of high-purity wood pulps for which the Company has dependable sources of supply.

Contributing to profitability in the Fibers segment is the limited number of competitors and significant barriers to entry. These barriers include, but are not limited to, high capital costs for integrated manufacturing facilities.

The Fibers segment's competitive strengths include a reputation for high-quality products, technical expertise, large scale vertically-integrated processes, reliability of supply, internally produced acetate flake supply for Fibers segment's products, a reputation for customer service excellence, and a customer base characterized by strategic long-term customer and end-user relationships. The Company continues to capitalize and build on these strengths to further improve the strategic position of its Fibers segment. In response to challenging acetate tow market conditions, including additional industry capacity and lower capacity utilization rates, the Company has taken actions in recent years expected to stabilize segment earnings including, establishing long-term acetate tow customer arrangements and agreements, development of innovative textile and nonwoven applications, and repurposing manufacturing capacity from acetate tow to new products.

15

Principal Products

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Strategy 

Management applies the innovation-driven growth model in the Fibers segment by leveraging its strong customer relationships and industry knowledge to maintain a leading industry position in the global market. The segment benefits from a state-of-the-art, world class, acetate flake production facility at the Kingsport, Tennessee site, which is supplied from Eastman's vertically integrated coal gasification facility and is the largest and most integrated acetate tow site in the world. Eastman's global acetate tow capacity is approximately 150,000 metric tons, not including the Company's participation in an acetate tow joint venture manufacturing facility in China. The Company supplies 100 percent of the acetate flake raw material to the China manufacturing joint venture from the Company's manufacturing facility in Kingsport, Tennessee, which the Company recognizes in sales revenue. The Company recognizes earnings in the joint venture through its equity investment, reported in "Other (income) charges, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. The Company's focus on innovation has resulted in repurposing some of its acetate tow manufacturing capacity to fibers products for textiles and nonwovens markets, resulting in increased capacity utilization and lower acetate tow costs.

The Company makes use of its capabilities in fibers technology to maintain a strong focus on incremental product and process improvements, with the goals of meeting customers' evolving needs and further improving the segment's manufacturing process efficiencies.

16

The Fibers segment R&D efforts focus on serving existing customers, leveraging proprietary cellulose ester and spinning technology for differentiated application development in new markets, optimizing asset productivity, and working with suppliers to reduce costs. For acetate tow, these efforts are assisting customers in the effective use of the segment's products and customers' product development efforts. Beyond acetate tow, management is applying the innovation-driven growth model to leverage its fibers technology and expertise to focus on innovative growth in the textiles and nonwovens markets. Examples of recent product innovation within the Fibers segment include Naia™ yarn for the apparel market developed from Eastman's proprietary cellulose ester technology; Avra™ performance fibers for the apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics markets developed from a combination of Eastman proprietary spinning technology and polymer chemistry enabling unique fiber capabilities of size, shape, comfort, and performance; and Vestera™ wood pulp-based alternative for the nonwoven industry used in personal hygiene applications.

In 2019 the Company acquired Industrias del Acetato de Celulosa. S.A. ("INACSA"), a cellulosic yarn business in LA Batllòria, Spain as a targeted addition to the Fibers segment's acetate yarn business. 

EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY GENERAL INFORMATION

Seasonality and Cyclicality

Eastman's earnings are typically higher in second and third quarters, and cash flows from operations are typically highest in the second half of the year due to seasonal demand based on general economic activity in the Company's key markets as described in "Business Segments". Results in all segments except Fibers are typically weaker in fourth quarter due to seasonal downturns in key markets.

The coatings and inks additives product line of the AFP segment and the intermediates product line of the CI segment are impacted by the cyclicality of key end products and markets, while other operating segments and product lines are more sensitive to global economic conditions. Eastman is exposed to consumer discretionary end-markets, particularly in the AM and AFP segments, and changes in global consumer spending impact the results in these segments. Supply and demand dynamics determine profitability at different stages of business cycles and global economic conditions affect the length of each cycle.

Sales, Marketing, and Distribution

Eastman markets and sells products primarily through a global marketing and sales organization which has a presence in the United States and approximately 30 other countries selling into more than 100 countries around the world. The Company focuses its market engagement on attractive niche markets, leveraging disruptive macro trends, and market activation throughout the value chain with both customers and downstream users. Eastman's strategy is to target industries and markets where the Company can leverage its application development expertise to develop product offerings to provide differentiated value that address current and future customer and market needs. The Company's strategic marketing approach and capabilities leverage the Company's insights about trends, markets, and customers to drive development of specialty products. Through a highly skilled and specialized sales force that is capable of providing differentiated product solutions, Eastman strives to be the preferred supplier in the Company's targeted markets.

The Company's products are also marketed through indirect channels, which include dealers and contract representatives. Sales outside the United States tend to be made more frequently through dealers and contract representatives than sales in the United States. The combination of direct and indirect sales channels, including sales online through its Customer Center website, allows Eastman to reliably serve customers throughout the world.

The Company's products are shipped to customers and to downstream users directly from Eastman manufacturing plants and distribution centers worldwide.

17

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials and Energy

Eastman purchases approximately 75 percent of its key raw materials and energy through different contract mechanisms, generally of one to three years in initial duration with renewal or cancellation options for each party. Most of these agreements do not require the Company to purchase materials or energy if its operations are reduced or idle. The cost of raw materials and energy is generally based on market price at the time of purchase; however, from time to time Eastman uses derivative financial instruments for certain key raw materials to mitigate the impact of market price fluctuations. Key raw materials include propane, propylene, paraxylene, methanol, cellulose, fatty alcohol, polyvinyl alcohol, and a wide variety of precursors for specialty organic chemicals. Key purchased energy sources include natural gas, coal, and electricity. The Company has multiple suppliers for most key raw materials and energy and uses quality management principles, such as the establishment of long-term relationships with suppliers and ongoing performance assessments and benchmarking, as part of its supplier selection process. When appropriate, the Company purchases raw materials from a single source supplier to maximize quality and reduce cost, and has contingency plans to minimize the potential impact of any supply disruptions from single source suppliers.

While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements. However, their continuous availability and cost are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market conditions, changes in government regulation, natural disasters, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism or other political factors, or breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure. Eastman's operations or products have in the past, and may in the future, be adversely affected by these factors. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. The Company's raw material and energy costs as a percent of total cost of operations were approximately 40 percent in 2019. For additional information about raw materials, see Exhibit 99.02 "Product and Raw Material Information" of this Annual Report.

Manufacturing Streams

Integral to Eastman's strategy for growth is leveraging its heritage expertise and innovation in cellulose and acetyl, olefins, polyester, and alkylamine chemistries in key markets, including transportation, building and construction, consumables, filtration media, and agriculture. For each of these chemistries, Eastman has developed and acquired a combination of assets and technologies that are operated within four manufacturing "streams", combining scale and integration across multiple manufacturing units and sites as a competitive advantage.

•In the cellulose and acetyl stream, the Company begins with coal which is gasified with oxygen in its coal gasification facility. The resulting synthesis gas is converted into acetic acid and acetic anhydride. Cellulose derivative manufacturing at the Company begins with natural polymers, sourced from managed forests, which, when combined with acetyl and olefin chemicals, provide differentiated product lines. Through a new recycling innovation, carbon renewal technology is now enabling the recycling of complex plastics to the basic building blocks of Eastman's cellulosic product stream. The major end-markets for products from the cellulose and acetyl stream include coatings, displays, thermoplastics, and filtration media. 

•In the olefins stream, the Company begins primarily with propane and ethane, which are "cracked" (the process whereby hydrocarbon molecules are broken down and rearranged) into ethylene and propylene in three cracking units at its site in Longview, Texas. As a result of modifications completed in 2018, these units also offer flexibility to use RGP as a diversified feedstock to minimize the impact of olefins spread volatility. The Company purchases some additional propylene to supplement cracking unit production. Propylene derivative products are used in a variety of items such as paints and coatings, automotive safety glass, and non-phthalate plasticizers. Ethylene derivative products are converted for end-uses in the food industry, health and beauty products, detergents, and automotive products.

•In the polyester stream, the Company begins with paraxylene and glycol feedstocks, converting them through a series of intermediate materials to ultimately produce copolyesters. Eastman can add specialty monomers to copolyesters to provide clear, tough, chemically resistant product characteristics. As a result, the Company's copolyesters effectively compete with materials such as polycarbonate and acrylic. The polyester stream is now leveraging advanced circular recycling technology to enable various waste plastics to be recycled into high quality, specialty copolyester products.

•In the alkylamines stream, the Company begins with ammonia and alcohol feedstocks to produce methylamines and higher alkylamines, which can then be further converted into alkylamine derivatives. The Company's alkylamines products are primarily used in agriculture, water treatment, consumables, animal nutrition, and oil and gas end-markets.

18

The Company leverages its expertise and innovation in cellulose and acetyl, olefins, polyester, and alkylamine chemistries and technologies, to meet demand and create new uses and opportunities for the Company's products in key markets. Through integration and optimization across these streams, the Company is able to create unique and differentiated products that have a performance advantage over competitive materials.

Human Capital

Eastman employs approximately 14,500 people worldwide. Approximately 10 percent of the total worldwide labor force is represented by collective labor agreements, mostly outside the United States.

Effective attraction, development, and retention of, and compensation and benefits to, human resource talent (or "human capital"), including workforce and management development, diversity and inclusion initiatives, succession planning, and corporate culture and leadership quality, morale, and development are vital to the success of Eastman's innovation-driven growth strategy. The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors oversees workforce and senior management development and the Board of Directors monitors the culture of the Company and leadership quality, morale and development.

Customers

Eastman has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any one customer, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Company until such business is replaced. The top 100 customers accounted for approximately 55 percent of the Company's 2019 sales revenue. No single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of the Company's consolidated sales revenue during 2019.

Intellectual Property and Trademarks

While Eastman's intellectual property portfolio is an important Company asset which it expands and vigorously protects globally through a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, neither its business as a whole nor any particular operating segment is materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or trade secret. As a producer of a broad range of advanced materials, specialty additives, chemicals, and fibers, Eastman owns over 700 active United States patents and more than 1,500 active foreign patents, expiring at various times over several years, and owns over 5,300 active worldwide trademark applications and registrations. Eastman continues to actively protect its intellectual property. As the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Eastman cannot ensure that it will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property assets outside the United States. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report.

The Company pursues opportunities to license proprietary technology to third parties where it has determined competitive impact to its businesses will be minimal. These arrangements typically are structured to require payments at significant project milestones such as signing, completion of design, and start-up.

Research and Development

Management applies its innovation-driven growth model to leverage the Company's world class scalable technology platforms that provide a competitive advantage and the foundation for sustainable earnings growth. The Company's R&D strategy for sustainable growth through innovation includes multi-generational product development for specialty products, faster and more differentiated product development by leveraging global application development capabilities, and the creation of value through integration of multiple technology platforms. The Company leverages core competencies in polyesters, cellulose esters, thermoplastic processing, textile capability, and in-house application expertise for use in a wide range of applications to provide solutions to markets which are in search of new and improved products. This strategy has been accelerated by enhancements of global differentiated application development capabilities that position Eastman as a strategic element of customers' success within attractive niche markets. See examples of recent product and technology innovations in "Corporate Overview - Business Strategy - Innovation".

19

Eastman manages certain growth initiatives and costs at the corporate level, including certain R&D costs not allocated to any one operating segment. The Company uses a stage-gating process, which is a disciplined decision-making framework for evaluating targeted opportunities, with a number of projects at various stages of development. As projects meet milestones, additional amounts are spent on those projects. The Company continues to explore and invest in R&D initiatives such as high-performance materials and opportunities created by disruptive macro trends including sustainability and development of a more "circular economy". See "Corporate Overview - Business Strategy - Sustainability".

Environmental

The Company is subject to significant and complex laws, regulations, and legal requirements relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, emission, discharge, disposal, remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes in all of the countries in which it does business. These health, safety, and environmental considerations are a priority in the Company's planning for all existing and new products and processes. The Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee of Eastman's Board of Directors oversees the Company's policies and practices concerning health, safety, and the environment and its processes for complying with related laws and regulations and monitors related matters.

The Company's policy is to operate its plants and facilities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations such that it protects the environment and the health and safety of its employees and the public. The Company intends to continue to make expenditures for environmental protection and improvements in a timely manner consistent with its policies and with available technology. In some cases, applicable environmental regulations such as those adopted under the Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, and related actions of regulatory agencies determine the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company. Likewise, any new legislation or regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and energy, or the repeal of such legislation or regulations, could impact the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.

The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability at a contaminated site and the amount can be reasonably estimated. In some instances, the amount cannot be reasonably estimated due to insufficient information, particularly as to the nature and timing of future expenditures. In these cases, the liability is monitored until such time that sufficient information exists. With respect to a contaminated site, the amount accrued reflects liabilities expected to be paid out within approximately 30 years and the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations, and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.

Eastman's cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were $244 million, $274 million, and $257 million in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, and include operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, engineering costs, and construction costs. These cash expenditures include environmental capital expenditures of approximately $27 million, $44 million, and $38 million in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. 

The Company does not currently expect near term environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of environmental laws and regulations to materially impact the Company's planned level of annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. Other matters concerning health, safety, and the environment are discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 and in Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies"; Note 12, "Environmental Matters and Asset Retirement Obligations"; and Note 21, "Reserve Rollforwards" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. 

Backlog

As of December 31, 2019, Eastman's backlog of firm sales orders represented less than 10 percent of the Company's total consolidated revenue for the year. These orders are primarily short-term, and all orders are expected to be filled in the following year. The Company manages its inventory levels to control the backlog of products depending on customers' needs. In areas where the Company is the single source of supply, or competitive forces or customers' needs dictate, the Company may carry additional inventory to meet customer requirements.

20

Available Information - Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Filings

Eastman makes available free of charge, in the "Investors - SEC Information" section of its Internet website (www.eastman.com), its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

21

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS