PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

Unless otherwise indicated or required by the context, references throughout to “Endo,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to financial information and transactions of Endo International plc and its subsidiaries.

Endo International plc is an Ireland-domiciled specialty branded and generics pharmaceutical company. Endo International plc was incorporated in Ireland in 2013 as a private limited company and re-registered effective February 18, 2014 as a public limited company. Endo International plc is a holding company that conducts its operations through its subsidiaries.

Our ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the ticker symbol “ENDP.” References throughout to “ordinary shares” refer to Endo International plc’s ordinary shares (1,000,000,000 authorized, par value of $0.0001 per share). In addition, we have 4,000,000 euro deferred shares outstanding (par value of $0.01 per share).

The address of Endo International plc’s headquarters is Minerva House, Simmonscourt Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4, Ireland (telephone number: 011-353-1-268-2000).

Our focus is on pharmaceutical products and we target areas where we believe we can build leading positions. We use a differentiated operating model based on a lean and nimble structure, the rational allocation of capital and an emphasis on high-value research and development (R&D) targets. While our primary focus is on organic growth, we evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through the acquisition of products and companies in areas that we believe serve patients and customers while offering attractive growth characteristics and margins. We believe our operating model and the execution of our corporate strategy will enable us to create shareholder value over the long-term.

For branded products, we seek to invest in products or product candidates that have inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities and market such products under recognizable brand names that are trademarked. For products we develop for the United States (U.S.) market, after the completion of required clinical trials and testing, we seek approvals from regulatory bodies such as through the submission of New Drug Applications (NDAs) or Biologics License Applications (BLAs) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Upon U.S. approval, patents included in such NDAs are listed in a publication referred to as the Orange Book. We believe that our patents, the protection of discoveries in connection with our development activities, our proprietary products, technologies, processes, trade secrets, know-how, innovations and all of our intellectual property are important to our business and achieving a competitive position. However, there can be no assurance that any of our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights will afford us any protection from competition. Additional information is included throughout this Part I, Item 1.

For generic products, which are the pharmaceutical and therapeutic equivalents of branded products and are generally marketed under their generic (chemical) names rather than their brand names, our focus is on high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. In the U.S., a first-to-file product refers to a generic product for which the Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) containing a patent challenge (or Paragraph IV certification) to the corresponding branded product’s FDA Orange Book-listed patents was the first to be filed with the FDA. In the U.S., manufacturers that launch first-to-file products, after success in litigating or otherwise resolving related patent challenges, and receive final FDA approval have the opportunity for 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity from competing generic products other than authorized generics. A first-to-market product refers to a product that is the first marketed generic equivalent of a branded product for reasons apart from statutory marketing exclusivity. This can occur, for example, when a generic product is difficult to formulate or manufacture. First-to-market products allow manufacturers to mitigate risks from competitive pressures commonly associated with commoditized generic products. Additional information is included throughout this Part I, Item 1.

The four reportable business segments in which we operate are: (1) Branded Pharmaceuticals, (2) Sterile Injectables, (3) Generic Pharmaceuticals and (4) International Pharmaceuticals. Additional information about our reportable business segments is included throughout this Part I. The results of operations of our reportable business segments are discussed in Part II, Item 7 of this report “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the heading “RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” Across all of our reportable business segments, we generated total revenues of $2.91 billion, $2.95 billion and $3.47 billion in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.

1
Our Strategy

Endo International plc is a highly focused specialty branded and generics pharmaceutical company that, through its operating subsidiaries, seeks to deliver quality medicines to patients in need through excellence in development, manufacturing and commercialization. Our strategic priorities include reshaping our organization for success, building our portfolio and capabilities for the future and driving margin expansion and, over the longer term, de-levering. Specific areas of management’s focus include:

•Branded Pharmaceuticals: Accelerating performance of organic growth drivers in our Specialty Products portfolio and expanding margin in our Established Products portfolio. As further described below under the heading “Select Development Projects,” management is also focused on investing in key pipeline life cycle management and other development opportunities, including in the areas of medical therapeutics and medical aesthetics.

•Sterile Injectables: Focusing on developing branded injectable products with inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities, expanding the product portfolio to include other dosages and technologies and developing or acquiring high-barrier-to-entry, generic injectable products that are difficult to manufacture.

•Generic Pharmaceuticals: Focusing on developing or acquiring high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges.

•International Pharmaceuticals: Operating in regulated markets where physicians play a significant role in choosing the course of therapy and seeking to expand distribution of certain of our products outside of the U.S.

Going forward, our primary focus will be on organic growth. However, we will evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through acquisitions of products and companies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing on our strategy.

Our Competitive Strengths

To successfully execute our strategy, we must continue to capitalize on our following core strengths:

Experienced and dedicated management team. We have a highly skilled and customer-focused management team in critical leadership positions across Endo. Our senior management team has extensive experience in the pharmaceutical industry and a proven track record of developing businesses and creating value. This experience includes improving business performance through organic revenue growth, operational excellence and through the identification, consummation and integration of licensing and acquisition opportunities.

Operational excellence. We have efficient, effective and high-quality manufacturing capabilities across a diversified array of dosage forms in the U.S. and India. We believe our comprehensive suite of technology, manufacturing and development competencies increases the likelihood of success in commercializing high-barrier-to-entry products and obtaining first-to-file and first-to-market status on future products, yielding more sustainable market share and profitability. For example, our capabilities in the rapidly growing U.S. market for sterile products afford us with a broader and more diversified product portfolio and a greater selection of targets for potential development.

We believe that our competitive advantages include our integrated team-based approach to product development that combines our formulation, regulatory, legal, manufacturing and commercial capabilities; our ability to introduce new generic equivalents for brand-name products; our quality and cost-effective production; our ability to meet customer and/or patient expectations and the breadth of our existing sterile injectables and generic product portfolio offerings.

Growth of our branded Specialty Products portfolio while leveraging the strength of our Established Products portfolio. We have assembled a portfolio of branded prescription products offered by our Branded Pharmaceuticals segment to treat and manage conditions in urology, urologic oncology, endocrinology, pain, bariatrics and orthopedics. Additional information on these product portfolios is included below under the heading “Products Overview.”

Focus on the differentiated products of our sterile injectables and generics portfolios. By leveraging operational efficiency, our Sterile Injectables and Generic Pharmaceuticals segments aim to be low-cost producers of high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file and first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. We believe products with these characteristics will provide longer product life cycles and higher profitability than products without these characteristics. These segments also aim to manufacture products that meet the evolving needs of hospitals and health systems, including ready-to-use sterile injectable products, in a cost efficient manner. 

Continuing proactive diversification of our business. Our primary focus is on organic growth. However, we will evaluate and, where appropriate, execute on opportunities to expand through acquisitions of products and companies in areas that will serve patients and customers and that we believe will offer attractive growth characteristics and margins. In particular, we will look to continue to enhance our product lines by acquiring or licensing rights to additional products and regularly evaluating selective acquisition opportunities.

2
R&D expertise. Our R&D efforts are focused on the development of a balanced, diversified portfolio of innovative and clinically differentiated product candidates. Through our Sterile Injectables and Generic Pharmaceuticals businesses, we seek out and develop high-barrier-to-entry products, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities. We periodically review our R&D pipeline in order to better direct investment toward those opportunities that we expect will deliver the greatest returns. We will continue to evaluate strategic R&D opportunities, with an aim to develop assets with inherently lower risk profiles and clearly defined regulatory pathways. Our current R&D pipeline consists of products in various stages of development. For additional detail, see “Select Development Projects.” Our R&D and regulatory affairs staff is based primarily in India and Pennsylvania.

Targeted sales and marketing infrastructure. Our sales and marketing activities are based in the U.S. and Canada and primarily focus on the promotion of our Specialty Products portfolio and Sterile Injectables segment. We market our Specialty Products directly to specialty physicians, including those specializing in urology, orthopedics, pediatric endocrinology and bariatric surgery. Our sales force also directs its marketing efforts on retail pharmacies and other healthcare professionals. We distribute our Specialty Products through independent wholesale distributors, but we also sell directly to retailers, clinics, government agencies, doctors, independent retail and specialty pharmacies and independent specialty distributors. Our marketing policy is designed to provide physicians, pharmacies, hospitals, public and private payers and appropriate healthcare professionals with products and appropriate medical information. We work to gain access to various formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products) and reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of our products within their approved indications.

Our dedicated Sterile Injectables sales and marketing team is focused on health systems and national group purchasing organizations (GPOs). Our customers’ growing complexity requires us to engage directly with key stakeholders and decision makers. Our experienced sales and marketing team is key to growing our existing portfolio and executing on new product launches.

Products Overview

Branded Pharmaceuticals

The following table displays the revenues from external customers of our Branded Pharmaceuticals segment for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Specialty Products Portfolio

Endo commercializes a number of products within the market served by specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies and in which healthcare practitioners can purchase and bill payers directly (the buy and bill market). Our current offerings primarily relate to two distinct areas: (i) urology treatments, which focus mainly on Peyronie’s disease (PD) and testosterone replacement therapies (TRT) for hypogonadism and (ii) orthopedics/pediatric endocrinology treatments, which focus on Dupuytren’s contracture (DC) and central precocious puberty (CPP). Key product offerings in this portfolio include the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•AVEED®, which is a novel, long-acting testosterone undecanoate for injection for the treatment of hypogonadism that is dosed only five times per year after the first month of therapy.

Established Products Portfolio

This portfolio’s current treatment offerings primarily relate to two distinct areas: (i) pain management, including products in the opioid analgesics and osteoarthritis pain segments and for the treatment of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia and (ii) urology, which focuses mainly on the treatment of hypogonadism. Key product offerings in this portfolio include, among others, the following:

•PERCOCET®, which is an opioid analgesic approved for the treatment of moderate-to-moderately-severe pain.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•LIDODERM®, which is a topical patch product containing lidocaine that is approved for the relief of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia, a condition thought to result after nerve fibers are damaged during a case of herpes zoster (commonly known as shingles).

•EDEX®, which is a penile injection used to treat erectile dysfunction caused by conditions affecting nerves, blood vessels, emotions and/or a combination of factors.

•VOLTAREN® Gel, which is a topical prescription treatment for the relief of joint pain associated with osteoarthritis in the knees, ankles, feet, elbows, wrists and hands.

The Company’s pain products, including opioid products, are managed as mature brands and are not and have not been actively promoted for years. In December 2016, the Company announced the elimination of its entire U.S. pain product field sales force.

Sterile Injectables

The following table displays the revenues from external customers of our Sterile Injectables segment for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Products included within Other Sterile Injectables include ephedrine sulfate injection, treprostinil for injection and others.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Sterile Injectables segment includes a product portfolio of approximately 30 product families, including branded sterile injectable products that are protected by certain patent rights and have inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities and generic injectable products that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges. Our sterile injectables products are manufactured in sterile facilities in vial dosages and are administered at hospitals, clinics and long-term care facilities. The product offerings in this segment include, among others, the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•ADRENALIN®, which is a non-selective alpha and beta adrenergic agonist indicated for emergency treatment of certain allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•APLISOL®, which is a sterile aqueous solution of a purified protein derivative for intradermal administration as an aid in the diagnosis of tuberculosis.

4
•Ephedrine sulfate injection, which is an alpha and beta adrenergic agonist and a norepinephrine-releasing agent indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia.

•Treprostinil for injection, which is used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension.

Generic Pharmaceuticals

The Generic Pharmaceuticals segment includes a product portfolio of approximately 150 generic prescription product families including solid oral extended-release, solid oral immediate-release, liquids, semi-solids, patches (which are medicated adhesive patches designed to deliver the pharmaceutical through the skin), powders, ophthalmics (which are sterile pharmaceutical preparations administered for ocular conditions) and sprays and includes products in the pain management, urology, central nervous system disorders, immunosuppression, oncology, women’s health and cardiovascular disease markets, among others.

Generic products are the pharmaceutical and therapeutic equivalents of branded products and are generally marketed under their generic (chemical) names rather than their brand names. Generic products are substantially the same as branded products in dosage form, safety, efficacy, route of administration, quality, performance characteristics and intended use, but are generally sold at prices below those of the corresponding branded products and thus represent cost-effective alternatives for consumers.

Typically, a generic product may not be marketed until the expiration of applicable patent(s) on the corresponding branded product unless a resolution of patent litigation results in an earlier opportunity to enter the market. For additional detail, see “Governmental Regulation.” However, our generics portfolio also contains certain authorized generics, which are generic versions of branded products licensed by brand drug companies under an NDA and marketed as generics. Authorized generics do not face the same regulatory barriers to introduction and are not prohibited from sale during the 180-day marketing exclusivity period granted to the first-to-file ANDA applicant. Our authorized generics include generic versions of our branded products including, for example, lidocaine patch 5% (LIDODERM®). We also aim to be a partner of choice to large companies seeking authorized generic distributors for their branded products. For example, in April 2019, we launched albuterol sulfate HFA inhalation aerosol (the authorized generic of Merck’s Proventil®) and, in July 2018, we launched colchicine tablets (the authorized generic of Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc.’s (Takeda) Colcrys®).

International Pharmaceuticals

Our International Pharmaceuticals segment includes a variety of specialty pharmaceutical products sold outside the U.S., primarily in Canada through our operating company Paladin Labs Inc. (Paladin). The key products of this segment serve growing therapeutic areas, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, pain, women’s health and oncology.

This segment also included: (i) our South African business, which was sold in July 2017 and consisted of Litha Healthcare Group Limited and certain assets acquired from Aspen Holdings in October 2015 (Litha) and (ii) our Latin American business, which was sold in October 2017 and consisted of Grupo Farmacéutico Somar, S.A.P.I. de C.V. (Somar).

Select Development Projects

XIAFLEX® 

XIAFLEX®, which contains the enzyme collagenase clostridium histolyticum (CCH), is currently approved by the FDA and marketed in the U.S. for the treatment of both DC and PD (two separate medical therapeutic indications). As further described in Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report, we in-licensed certain rights related to CCH pursuant to which we may, among other things, develop our XIAFLEX® product or other product candidates containing CCH for potential additional medical therapeutics indications.

In early 2020, we announced that we had initiated our XIAFLEX® development programs for the treatment of plantar fibromatosis and adhesive capsulitis.

Collagenase Clostridium Histolyticum - Medical Aesthetics

Our license rights relating to CCH also permit us to develop product candidates containing CCH for certain medical aesthetics indications. For example, we have rights to develop and globally market CCH for the treatment of cellulite. We are currently progressing our cellulite treatment development program. While based on the same enzyme, CCH for the treatment of cellulite is a different formulation and presentation with a different treatment regimen. In November 2019, we announced the FDA’s acceptance for review of the original BLA for CCH for the treatment of cellulite in the buttocks. The BLA is supported by the results of the RELEASE-1 and RELEASE-2 Phase 3 studies, as well as a clinical program. Trial subjects receiving CCH for the treatment of cellulite showed highly statistically significant levels of improvement in the appearance of cellulite with treatment, as measured by the trials’ primary endpoint. In addition, the RELEASE-1 trial passed 8 out of 8 key secondary endpoints and the RELEASE-2 trial passed 7 out of 8 key secondary endpoints. Finally, CCH for the treatment of cellulite was well-tolerated in the actively-treated subjects with most adverse events being mild to moderate in severity and primarily limited to the local injection area. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) date, or target action date, for the BLA has been set for July 6, 2020.

5
Subject to certain limitations, we have the right to further develop this same and/or other product candidates containing CCH for additional medical aesthetics indications.

Other

Our remaining pipeline consists mainly of a variety of product candidates in our Sterile Injectables and Generic Pharmaceuticals segments. Our primary approach to developing generic products, including injectables, is to target high-barrier-to-entry generic product opportunities, including first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities that are difficult to formulate or manufacture or face complex legal and regulatory challenges as well as products that meet the evolving needs of hospitals and health systems. We expect such product opportunities to result in products that are either the exclusive generic or have two or fewer generic competitors when launched, which we believe tends to lead to more sustainable market share and profitability for our product portfolio. In our Sterile Injectables business, we also focus on developing branded injectable products with inherent scientific, regulatory, legal and technical complexities, as well as developing other dosage forms and technologies.

As of December 31, 2019, these two segments were actively pursuing approximately 120 product candidates, which included approximately 65 ANDAs pending with the FDA. Of the 65 ANDAs, approximately half represent first-to-file opportunities or first-to-market opportunities. These numbers do not include five sterile injectable product candidates relating to a second-quarter 2018 development, license and commercialization agreement with Nevakar, Inc.

We periodically review our development projects in order to better direct investment toward those opportunities that we expect will deliver the greatest returns. This process can lead to decisions to discontinue certain R&D projects that may reduce the number of products in our previously reported pipeline.

Major Customers

We primarily sell our branded and generic products to wholesalers, retail drug store chains, supermarket chains, mass merchandisers, distributors, mail order accounts, hospitals and government agencies. Our wholesalers and distributors purchase products from us and, in turn, supply products to retail drug store chains, independent pharmacies and managed care organizations (MCOs). Customers in the managed care market include health maintenance organizations, nursing homes, hospitals, clinics, pharmacy benefit management companies and mail order customers. Our current customer group reflects significant consolidation in recent years, marked by mergers and acquisitions and other alliances. Total revenues from direct customers that accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues from these customers are included within each of our segments.

Some wholesale distributors have demanded that pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us, enter into distribution service agreements (DSAs) pursuant to which the wholesale distributors provide the pharmaceutical manufacturers with specific services, including the provision of periodic retail demand information and current inventory levels and other information. We have entered into certain of these agreements.

Competition

Branded Products

Our branded products compete with products manufactured by many other companies in highly competitive markets throughout the U.S. and internationally.

We compete principally through targeted product development and through our acquisition and in-licensing strategies, where we face intense competition as a result of the limited number of assets available and the number of competitors bidding on such assets. In addition to product development and acquisitions, other competitive factors with respect to branded products include product efficacy, safety, ease of use, price, demonstrated cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, service, reputation and access to technical information.

Branded products often must compete with therapeutically similar branded or generic products or with generic equivalents. Such competition frequently increases over time. For example, if competitors introduce new products, delivery systems or processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products could be subject to progressive price reductions and/or decreased volume of sales. To successfully compete for business, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits, but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Accordingly, we face pressure to continually seek out technological innovations and to market our products effectively.

6
Manufacturers of generic products typically invest far less in R&D than research-based companies and can therefore price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Due to lower prices, generic versions, where available, may be substituted by pharmacies or required in preference to branded versions under third-party reimbursement programs.

Branded Pharmaceuticals

This segment’s major competitors, including Mylan N.V. (Mylan), Allergan plc, Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Horizon Therapeutics plc and Mallinckrodt plc, among others, vary depending on therapeutic and product category, dosage strength and drug-delivery systems, among other factors.

Several of this segment’s products, such as PERCOCET®, TESTOPEL® and LIDODERM®, face generic and/or other forms of competition. The degree of generic and/or other competition facing this segment could increase in the future. 

Sterile Injectables

This segment’s major competitors, including Hospira, Inc. (a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.), Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC (Fresenius), Mylan and Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC, vary by product. A significant portion of our sales, including sales to hospitals, clinics and long-term care facilities in the U.S., are controlled by a relatively small number of GPOs, including HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P., Premier Inc. and Vizient, Inc. Accordingly, it is important for us to have strong relationships with these GPOs and achieve on-time product launches in order to secure new bid opportunities.

Generic Products

Generic products generally face intense competition from branded equivalents, other generic equivalents (including authorized generics) and therapeutically similar branded or generic products. Our major competitors, including Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, Mylan, Sandoz (a division of Novartis) and Amneal Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amneal), among others, vary by product.

Consolidations of our customer base described above under the heading “Major Customers” have resulted in increased pricing and other competitive pressures on pharmaceutical companies, including us. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and other distributors and the prevalence and influence of MCOs and similar institutions have increased the negotiating power of these groups, enabling them to attempt to extract various demands, including without limitation price discounts, rebates and other restrictive pricing terms. These competitive trends could continue in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Newly introduced generic products with limited or no other generic competition typically garner higher prices relative to commoditized generic products. As such, our primary strategy is to compete with a focus on high-value, first-to-file or first-to-market opportunities, regardless of therapeutic category, and products that present significant barriers to entry for reasons such as complex formulation or regulatory or legal challenges. For additional detail, see “Our Competitive Strengths - Focus on the differentiated products of our sterile injectables and generics portfolios.”

Even if we are successful in launching generic products with statutory generic exclusivity, competitors may enter the market when such exclusivity periods expire, resulting in significant price declines. Consequently, maintaining profitable operations depends, in part, on our continuing ability to select, develop, procure regulatory approvals of, overcome legal challenges to, launch and commercialize new generic products in a timely and cost efficient manner and to maintain efficient, high quality manufacturing capabilities. For additional detail, see “Our Competitive Strengths - Operational excellence.”

Seasonality

Although our business is affected by the purchasing patterns and concentration of our customers, our business is not materially impacted by seasonality.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Proprietary Property

We regard the protection of patents and other enforceable intellectual property rights that we own or license as critical to our business and competitive position. Accordingly, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright law, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, to protect our intellectual property. We have a portfolio of patents and patent applications owned or licensed by us that cover aspects of our products. These patents and applications generally include claims directed to the compounds and/or methods of using the compounds, formulations of the compounds, pharmaceutical salt forms of the compounds or methods of manufacturing the compounds. Our policy is to pursue patent applications on inventions that we believe are commercially important to the development and growth of our business. Certain patents relating to products that are the subject of approved NDAs are listed in the U.S. FDA publication, “Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations” (Orange Book). The table below contains a list from the Orange Book of patent expiration dates for certain products we market.

7
The Orange Book does not include a listing of patents related to biological products. Included in the table are certain products for which we own or license a BLA along with the date of expiration of certain relevant patents or regulatory exclusivity. In addition, we may have other relevant regulatory protection or patents that may extend beyond the expiration date listed in the table below. We may also obtain further patents or additional regulatory or patent exclusivity for one or more indications for a product in the future.

As of February 18, 2020, we held approximately: 234 U.S. issued patents, 36 U.S. patent applications pending, 454 foreign issued patents and 71 foreign patent applications pending. In addition, as of February 18, 2020, we had licenses for approximately 46 U.S. issued patents, 11 U.S. patent applications pending, 171 foreign issued patents and 64 foreign patent applications pending. The following table sets forth, as of February 18, 2020, the year of expiration relating to certain of our products:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Our license agreements for the patents in the table above extend to or beyond the patent expiration dates. See Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional discussion about certain license agreements.

(2)The expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products or biosimilars against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. In some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets, patents on uses for products, patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients or patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms.

The effect of these issued patents is that they provide us with protection by virtue of our ability to exclude others from making, using, selling, offering for sale and importing that which is covered by their claims. To achieve a competitive position, we also rely on trade secrets, non-patented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation, where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or attainable. Many of our products are sold under trademarks. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect, among other things, trade secrets and other proprietary information.

There can be no assurance that any of our patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights will afford us any protection from competition or that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that other third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property.

Additionally, any pending or future patent applications made by us or our subsidiaries, our license partners or entities we may acquire in the future are subject to risks and uncertainties. The coverage claimed in any such patent applications could be significantly reduced before the patent is issued and there can be no assurance that any such applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide significant proprietary protection or will be challenged, circumvented or invalidated. Because unissued U.S. patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of eighteen months and U.S. patent applications filed prior to November 29, 2000 are not disclosed until such patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference and other inter-parties proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) to determine priority of invention, or in opposition proceedings in a foreign patent office, either of which could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. There can be no assurance that any patents, if issued, will be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using such technology. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “Our ability to protect and maintain our proprietary and licensed third party technology, which is vital to our business, is uncertain.”

We may find it necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our intellectual property or trade secrets or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation is costly and time-consuming and there can be no assurance that our litigation expenses will not be significant in the future or that we will prevail in any such litigation. See Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

8
Governmental Regulation

U.S. FDA and Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA)

The pharmaceutical industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, injunctions and refusal of the government to enter into supply contracts or to approve NDAs, ANDAs, BLAs and/or other similar applications.

FDA approval is typically required before any new pharmaceutical or biologic product can be marketed. An NDA or BLA is a filing submitted to the FDA to obtain approval of new chemical entities and other innovations for which thorough applied research is required to demonstrate safety and effectiveness in use. The process generally involves, among other things:

•completion of preclinical laboratory and animal testing and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice regulations;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•approval by an independent institutional review board before each trial may be initiated and continuing review during the trial;

•performance of human clinical trials, including adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed product for each intended use;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap. Those phases include:

•Phase 1 trials generally involve testing the product for safety, adverse effects, dosage, tolerance, absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and other elements of clinical pharmacology.

•Phase 2 trials typically involve a small sample of the intended patient population to assess the efficacy of the compound for a specific indication, to determine dose tolerance and the optimal dose range and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects.

•Phase 3 trials are undertaken in an expanded patient population, typically at dispersed study sites, in order to determine the overall risk-benefit ratio of the compound and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling.

Each trial is conducted in accordance with certain standards under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the Investigational New Drug application. Clinical trials are also subject to regulatory inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities to confirm compliance with applicable regulatory standards. The process of completing clinical trials for a new product may take many years and require the expenditures of substantial resources. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business, including withdrawal or suspension of existing products.” 

As a condition of approval of an NDA or BLA, the FDA may require further studies, including Phase 4 post-marketing studies or post-marketing data reporting, such as evaluating known or signaled safety risks. Results of post-marketing programs may limit or expand the future marketing of the products and result in the FDA requiring labeling changes, including the addition of risk information.

For some products, the FDA may require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) to confirm that a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. REMS could include medication guides, physician communication plans or other elements. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business, including withdrawal or suspension of existing products.”

9
In most instances, FDA approval of an ANDA is required before a generic equivalent of an existing or reference-listed drug can be marketed. The ANDA process is abbreviated in that the FDA waives the requirement of conducting complete preclinical and clinical studies and generally instead relies principally on bioequivalence studies. Bioequivalence generally involves a comparison of the rate of absorption and levels of concentration of a generic product in the body with those of the previously approved product. When the rate and extent of absorption of systemically acting test and reference drugs are considered the same under the bioequivalence requirement, the two products are considered bioequivalent and are generally regarded as therapeutically equivalent, meaning that a pharmacist can substitute the generic product for the reference-listed drug. Under certain circumstances, an ANDA may also be submitted for a product authorized by approval of an ANDA suitability petition. Such petitions may be submitted to secure authorization to file an ANDA for a product that differs from a previously approved product in active ingredient, route of administration, dosage form or strength. In September 2007 and July 2012, Congress re-authorized pediatric testing legislation, which now requires ANDAs approved via the suitability petition route to conduct pediatric testing. The timing of final FDA approval of an ANDA application depends on a variety of factors, including whether the applicant challenges any listed patents for the reference-listed drug and whether the manufacturer of the reference-listed drug is entitled to one or more statutory exclusivity periods during which the FDA is prohibited from approving generic products. In certain circumstances, a regulatory exclusivity period can extend beyond the life of a patent, thus blocking ANDAs from being approved even after the patent expiration date.

Certain of our products are or could become regulated and marketed as biologic products pursuant to BLAs. Our BLA-licensed products were licensed based on a determination by the FDA of safety, purity and potency as required under the Public Health Service Act (PHSA). Although the ANDA framework referenced above does not apply to generics of BLA-licensed biologics, there is an abbreviated licensure pathway for products deemed to be biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, FDA-licensed reference biological products pursuant to the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCIA). The BPCIA framework was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and could be impacted by ongoing litigation regarding the legality of the PPACA. Under the BPCIA, following the expiration of a 12-year reference exclusivity period, the FDA may license, under section 351(k) of the PHSA, a biological product that it determines is biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, a reference product licensed under section 351(a) of the PHSA. Although licensure of biosimilar or interchangeable products is generally expected to require less than the full complement of product-specific preclinical and clinical data required for innovator products, the FDA has considerable discretion over the kind and amount of scientific evidence required to demonstrate biosimilarity and interchangeability.

Some pharmaceutical products are available in the U.S. that are not the subject of an FDA-approved NDA. In 2011, the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) Office of Compliance modified its enforcement policy with regard to the marketing of such “unapproved” marketed products. Under CDER’s revised guidance, the FDA encourages manufacturers to obtain NDA approvals for such products by requiring unapproved versions to be removed from the market after an approved version has been introduced, subject to a grace period at the FDA’s discretion. This grace period is intended to allow an orderly transition of supply to the market and to mitigate any potential related product shortage. Depending on the length of the grace period and the time it takes for subsequent applications to be approved, this may result in a period of de facto market exclusivity to the first manufacturer that has obtained an approved NDA for the previously unapproved marketed product.

Over-the-counter (OTC) products may, depending on ingredients and proposed label claims, be marketed pursuant to the OTC monograph process or could require NDA or ANDA approval. The OTC monograph process allows for OTC products to be marketed without pre-market approval and generally does not require clinical studies.

Laws and regulations impacting the pharmaceutical industry are constantly evolving. For example, the 21st Century Cures Act (Cures Act), which was signed into law on December 13, 2016, includes various provisions to accelerate the development and delivery of new treatments, such as those intended to expand the types of evidence manufacturers may submit to support FDA approval, to encourage patient-centered product development, to liberalize the communication of healthcare economic information to payers and to create greater transparency with regard to manufacturer expanded access programs. Central to the Cures Act are provisions that enhance and accelerate the FDA’s processes for reviewing and approving new products and supplements to approved NDAs. The Cures Act also included $1 billion in new funding to states to supplement opioid abuse prevention and treatment activities.

More recently, in December 2019, the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (FCAA 2020) became law. Section 610, titled “Actions for Delays of Generic Drugs and Biological Products,” provides generic (ANDA and 505(b)(2)) and biosimilar developers with a private right of action to obtain sufficient quantities of reference product from the brand manufacturer, or a generic or biosimilar manufacturer, necessary for approval of the developers’ generic or biosimilar product. If a generic or biosimilar developer is successful in its suit, the defendant manufacturer would be required to provide sufficient quantities of product on commercially-reasonable, market-based terms and may be required to pay the developer’s reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as well as financial compensation under certain circumstances. The purpose of section 610 is to promote competition by facilitating the timely entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar products.

10
A sponsor of an NDA is required to identify, in its application, any patent that claims the drug or a use of the drug subject to the application. Upon NDA approval, the FDA lists these patents in a publication referred to as the Orange Book. Any person that files an ANDA or NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FFDCA must make a certification in respect to any listed patents for the reference drug. The FDA may not approve such an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until expiration of the reference drug’s listed patents unless (i) the applicant certifies that the listed patents are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed by the proposed generic drug and gives notice to the holder of the NDA for the listed drug of the basis upon which the patents are challenged and (ii) the holder of the listed drug does not sue the later applicant for patent infringement within 45 days of receipt of notice. Under the current law, if an infringement suit is filed, the FDA may not approve the later application until the earliest of: (i) 30 months after submission, (ii) entry of an appellate court judgment holding the patent invalid, unenforceable or not infringed, (iii) such time as a court may order or (iv) expiration of the patent.

One of the key motivators for challenging patents is the 180-day marketing exclusivity period granted to the developer of a generic version of a product that is the first to have its ANDA accepted for filing by the FDA and whose filing includes a certification that the applicable patent(s) are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed (a Paragraph IV certification) and that otherwise does not forfeit eligibility for the exclusivity. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, with accompanying amendments to the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act (the Hatch-Waxman Act), this marketing exclusivity would begin to run upon the earlier of the commercial launch of the generic product or upon an appellate court decision in the generic company’s favor or in favor of another ANDA applicant who had filed with a Paragraph IV certification and has tentative approval. In addition, the holder of the NDA for the listed drug may be entitled to certain non-patent exclusivity during which, depending on the type of exclusivity, the FDA either cannot accept or approve an application for a competing ANDA generic product or 505(b)(2) NDA product with the same active moiety for a protected condition of use.

The FDA also regulates pharmacies and outsourcing facilities that prepare “compounded” drugs pursuant to section 503A and 503B of the FFDCA, respectively. For instance, under section 503A of the FFDCA, pharmacies may compound drugs for an identified individual based on the receipt of a valid prescription order, or notation approved by the prescribing practitioner, that a compounded product is necessary for the identified patient. Similarly, under section 503B of the FFDCA, outsourcing facilities may compound drugs and sell them to healthcare providers, but not wholesalers or distributors. Although section 503A pharmacies and section 503B outsourcing facilities are subject to many regulatory requirements, compounded drugs are not subject to premarket review by the FDA and, therefore, may not have the same level of safety and efficacy as products subject to premarket review and approval by the FDA. Because they are not subject to premarket review, compounded drugs are frequently lower cost than either branded or generic products.

The FDA enforces regulations to require that the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, processing, packing and holding of drugs conform to cGMPs. The cGMP regulations the FDA enforces are comprehensive and cover all aspects of manufacturing operations. Compliance with the regulations requires a continuous commitment of time, money and effort in all operational areas.

The FDA conducts pre-approval inspections of facilities engaged in the development, manufacture, processing, packing, testing and holding of the products subject to NDAs and ANDAs and pre-license inspections of facilities engaged in similar activities for biologic products subject to BLAs. In addition, manufacturers of both pharmaceutical products and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used to formulate such products also ordinarily undergo pre-approval inspections. Failure of any facility to pass a pre-approval inspection will result in delayed approval.

Facilities that manufacture pharmaceutical or biological products must be registered with the FDA and all such products made in such facilities must be manufactured in accordance with the latest cGMP regulations. The FDA conducts periodic inspections of facilities to assess the cGMP status of marketed products. Following such inspections, the FDA could issue a Form 483 Notice of Inspectional Observations, which could require modification to certain activities identified during the inspection. If the FDA were to find serious cGMP non-compliance during such an inspection, it could take regulatory actions. The FDA also may issue an untitled letter as an initial correspondence that cites violations that do not meet the threshold of regulatory significance for a Warning Letter. FDA guidelines also provide for the issuance of Warning Letters for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action.

Imported API and other components needed to manufacture our products could be rejected by U.S. Customs. In respect to domestic establishments, the FDA could initiate product seizures or request, or in some instances require, product recalls and seek to enjoin or otherwise limit a product’s manufacture and distribution. In certain circumstances, violations could support civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. In addition, if the FDA concludes that a company is not in compliance with cGMP requirements, sanctions may be imposed that include preventing that company from receiving the necessary licenses to export its products and classifying that company as an unacceptable supplier, thereby disqualifying that company from selling products to federal agencies.

11
Certain of our subsidiaries sell products that are “controlled substances” as defined in the CSA and implementing regulations, which establish certain security and recordkeeping requirements administered by the DEA. The DEA regulates chemical compounds as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. The active ingredients in some of our products are listed by the DEA as Schedule II or III substances under the CSA. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. 

The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients that are subject to the CSA used in several of our products as well as the production of these products. We or our contract manufacturing organizations must annually apply to the DEA for procurement and production quotas in order to obtain and produce these substances. As a result, our quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. Moreover, the DEA may adjust these quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our products as well as the production of these products, and, as a result, our procurement and production quotas may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials.”

To meet its responsibilities, the DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Annual registration is required for any facility that manufactures, tests, distributes, dispenses, imports or exports any controlled substance. The facilities must have the security, control, accounting mechanisms and monitoring systems required by the DEA to prevent loss and diversion of controlled substances and to comply with reporting obligations. Failure to maintain compliance can result in enforcement action. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke or restrict those registrations or, with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), seek to impose civil penalties. In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings.

In October 2018, the U.S. Congress enacted the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6). Intended to achieve sweeping reform to combat opioid abuse, H.R. 6, among other provisions, amends related laws administered by the FDA, DEA and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Among other things, the law: (i) amends requirements related to the FDA’s authority to include packaging requirements in REMS requirements; (ii) increases civil and criminal penalties for manufacturers and distributors for failing to maintain effective controls against diversion of opioids or for failing to report suspicious opioid orders; (iii) requires the DEA to estimate the amount of opioid diversion when establishing manufacturing and procurement quotas; (iv) implements expanded anti-kickback and financial disclosure provisions; and (v) authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to implement a demonstration program which would award grants to hospitals and emergency departments to develop, implement, enhance or study alternative pain management protocols and treatments that limit the use and prescription of opioids in emergency departments.

Individual states also regulate controlled substances and we, as well as our third-party API suppliers and manufacturers, are subject to such regulation by several states with respect to the manufacture and distribution of these products.

Government Benefit Programs

As described further in Item 1A. Risk Factors, statutory and regulatory requirements for government healthcare programs such as Medicaid, Medicare and TRICARE govern access and provider reimbursement levels, and provide for other cost-containment measures such as requiring pharmaceutical companies to pay rebates or refunds for certain sales of products reimbursed by such programs, or subjecting products to certain price ceilings. In addition to the cost-containment measures described in Item 1A. Risk Factors, sales to retail pharmacies under the TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Program are subject to certain price ceilings which require manufacturers to, among other things, pay refunds for prescriptions filled based on the applicable ceiling price limits. Beginning in the first quarter of 2017, pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, manufacturers are required to pay additional rebates to state Medicaid programs if the prices of their non-innovator products rise at a rate faster than inflation (as continues to be the case for innovator products); this requirement previously existed only as to branded or innovator products and the change in law may impact our business.

The federal government may continue to pursue legislation aimed at containing or reducing payment levels for prescription pharmaceuticals paid for in whole or in part with government funds. State governments also may continue to enact similar cost containment or transparency legislation. These efforts could have material consequences for the pharmaceutical industry and the Company.

From time to time, legislative changes are made to government healthcare programs that impact our business. Congress continues to examine various Medicare and Medicaid policy proposals that may result in a downward pressure on the prices of prescription products in these programs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - “The availability of third party reimbursement for our products is uncertain, and we may find it difficult to maintain current price levels. Additionally, the market may not accept those products for which third party reimbursement is not adequately provided.”

12
Under the PPACA, pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription products must pay an annual fee to the federal government. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer must pay a prorated share of the total industry fee based on the dollar value of its branded prescription product sales to specified federal programs. The total industry fee was $4 billion for 2017, $4.1 billion for 2018 and $2.8 billion for 2019. The 2019 rate is expected to continue for future years. 

Uncertainty continues to exist about the future of federal subsidies and of insurance coverage expansion as the current administration and congressional leaders continue to express interest in repealing these PPACA provisions and replacing them with alternatives that may be less costly and provide state Medicaid programs and private health plans more flexibility. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) repealed the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance coverage or face a penalty (known as the individual mandate). The removal of this provision, coupled with the threat of the repeal of other PPACA provisions, as well as the outcome of court challenges to the PPACA (including petitions for certiorari before the U.S. Supreme Court to review a December 2019 ruling in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit finding the individual mandate of the PPACA to be unconstitutional), threaten the stability of the insurance marketplace and may have consequences for the coverage and accessibility of prescription drugs.

Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, violations of which can lead to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. These laws are potentially applicable to us as both a manufacturer and a supplier of products reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, and they also apply to hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of our products.

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute (42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b) prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Remuneration is not defined in the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example, gifts, discounts, coupons, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payments, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. Under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the applicable criminal healthcare fraud statutes contained within 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b, a person or entity need not have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim, including items or services resulting from a violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b, constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below) or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes fines against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented claims to a federal healthcare program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute and implementing regulations provide for certain exceptions for “safe harbors” for certain discounting, rebating or personal services arrangements, among other things. However, the lack of uniform court interpretation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, coupled with novel enforcement theories by government authorities, make compliance with the law difficult. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute can result in significant criminal fines, exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid and follow-on civil litigation, among other things, for both entities and individuals.

In October 2019, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services issued a Proposed Rule: Revisions to Safe Harbors under the Anti-Kickback Statute and Civil Monetary Penalty Rules Regarding Beneficiary Inducements (October Proposed Rule) to, among other things, add new safe harbors for certain value-based arrangements. Although the value-based proposals would not include pharmaceutical manufacturers among the entities that could permissibly enter into such contracting arrangements, the general trend toward outcomes and value-based contracts in the healthcare industry may continue. It is possible that payers, among other customers, could push manufacturers for novel contracting approaches, including those that would incorporate value-based principles, and these efforts could affect our business.

The civil False Claims Act and similar state laws impose liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act and similar state laws allow a private individual to bring civil actions on behalf of the federal or state government and to share in any monetary recovery. The Federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state laws impose reporting requirements for various types of payments to physicians and teaching hospitals. Failure to comply with reporting requirements under these laws could subject manufacturers and others to substantial civil money penalties. In addition, government entities and private litigants have asserted claims under state consumer protection statutes against pharmaceutical and medical device companies for alleged false or misleading statements in connection with the marketing, promotion and/or sale of pharmaceutical and medical device products, including state investigations of the Company regarding vaginal mesh devices previously sold by certain of our operating subsidiaries and investigations and litigation by certain government entities regarding the prior promotional practices of certain of our operating subsidiaries with respect to opioid products.

13
International Regulations

Through our international operations, the Company is subject to laws and regulations that differ from those under which the Company operates in the U.S. In most cases, non-U.S. regulatory agencies evaluate and monitor the safety, efficacy and quality of pharmaceutical products, govern the approval of clinical trials and product registrations and regulate pricing and reimbursement. Certain international markets have differing product preferences and requirements and operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs, including price controls, such as the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board (PMPRB) in Canada.

In Canada, amendments to the Patented Medicines Regulations (Regulations Amending the Patented Medicines Regulations (Additional Factors and Information Reporting Requirements)) (the Amendments) will come into force on July 1, 2020 and will introduce a number of changes to the regulation of Canadian drug prices by the PMPRB. The PMPRB is an administrative board established by the Patent Act, RSC 1985, c P-4, with a mandate to protect Canadians from excessive pricing. Pharmaceutical manufacturers that are “patentees” are required to report applicable patents and file sales information so the PMPRB can monitor for excessive pricing as long as the product is considered to be a patented medicine. If it is determined the average price for a patented medicine is too high based on pricing tests developed by the PMPRB, a payment must be made to the PMPRB to offset the excessive revenues that were generated, and/or the price of the medicine must be reduced. The PMPRB’s authority to regulate the price of a product is linked to patent protection, specifically when there is a patent to an invention that is “intended or capable of being used for medicine or for the preparation or production of medicine” (Patent Act, Section 79(2)). 

For patented medicines approved by Health Canada after August 21, 2019 (the date of publication of the Amendments), the Amendments will allow PMPRB to consider additional factors when assessing whether a price is excessive: pharmacoeconomic value of the medicine in Canada, the size of the market for the medicine in Canada and the gross domestic product (GDP) and GDP per capita of Canada. For all patented medicines (regardless of the date of marketing authorization), the Amendments change the set of countries that the PMPRB uses for international price comparisons when assessing whether the Canadian price is excessive. Under the current regulations, the price of a Canadian medicine is compared to the price of that medicine in seven other counties, including the U.S. and Switzerland. The Amendments define a new set of eleven comparator countries, and the U.S. and Switzerland are no longer part of this basket. The implementation of the new set of comparator counties is expected to cause a decrease to permissible ceiling prices in Canada. Based on draft guidelines published by the PMPRB in November 2019 (currently under consultation), the ceiling price for a medicine is expected to be established as the median international list price of the eleven comparator countries for most patented medicines. According to the Regulatory Impact Analysis Statement that accompanied the publication of the Amendments in the Canada Gazette Part II, the Canadian government anticipates that Amendments will result in lower prices for patented medicines and an estimated benefit to Canadians of 8.8 billion Canadian dollars (present value) over 10 years.

Certain governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic products and enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control.

Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of other governments must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those jurisdictions. The approval process may be more or less rigorous than the U.S. process and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than in the U.S.

Service Agreements

We contract with various third parties to provide certain critical services including manufacturing, supply, warehousing, distribution, customer service, certain financial functions, certain R&D activities and medical affairs, among others.

Refer to Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements and Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional information.

We primarily purchase our raw materials for the production and development of our products in the open market from third party suppliers. We attempt, when possible, to mitigate our raw material supply risks through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. However, some raw materials are only available from one source. We are required to identify the suppliers of all raw materials for our products in the drug applications that we file with the FDA. If the raw materials from an approved supplier for a particular product become unavailable, we would be required to qualify a substitute supplier with the FDA, which would likely interrupt manufacturing of the affected product. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion on the risks associated with the sourcing of our raw materials.

14
License & Collaboration Agreements and Acquisitions

We continue to seek to enhance our product line and develop a balanced portfolio of differentiated products through product acquisitions and in-licensing or acquiring licenses to products, compounds and technologies from third parties. The Company enters into strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements with third parties, which give the Company rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products, the rights to which are primarily owned by these third parties. These alliances and arrangements can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements, co-promotion arrangements, research collaborations and joint ventures. Such alliances and arrangements enable us to share the risk of incurring all R&D expenses that do not lead to revenue-generating products; however, because profits from alliance products are shared with the counter-parties to the collaborative arrangement, the gross margins on alliance products are generally lower, sometimes substantially so, than the gross margins that could be achieved had the Company not opted for a development partner. Refer to Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional information.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to substantial federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other matters, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous substances. Violation of these laws and regulations, which may change, can lead to substantial fines and penalties. Many of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and limit pollution of the environment. We believe that our facilities and the facilities of our third party service providers are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and we do not believe that future compliance will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of February 18, 2020, we have 3,172 employees, of which 365 are engaged in R&D and regulatory work, 400 in sales and marketing, 1,243 in manufacturing, 636 in quality assurance and 528 in general and administrative capacities. With the exception of certain production personnel in our Rochester, Michigan manufacturing facility, our employees are generally not represented by unions. We believe that our relations with our employees are good.

Information about our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth, as of February 26, 2020, information about our executive officers:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)On November 4, 2019, Mr. Paul V. Campanelli notified the board of directors (the Board) of his intention to retire as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer. The Board appointed Mr. Campanelli as the Chairman of the Board on November 4, 2019. On February 19, 2020, the Board appointed Mr. Blaise Coleman as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Mark Bradley, Senior Vice President, Corporate Development & Treasurer, as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Both appointments are effective March 6, 2020 and Mr. Campanelli and Mr. Coleman will continue to serve in their current roles until such date.

Paul V. Campanelli was appointed Chairman of the Board of Endo in November 2019 and has served as Director, Chief Executive Officer and President since September 2016. Mr. Campanelli joined Endo in 2015 as the President of Par Pharmaceutical, leading Endo’s fully integrated U.S. Generics business, following Endo’s acquisition of Par Pharmaceutical. Prior to joining Endo, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. following the company’s September 2012 acquisition by TPG. Prior to the TPG acquisition, Mr. Campanelli served as Chief Operating Officer and President of Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. from 2010 to 2012. At Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., Mr. Campanelli had also served as Senior Vice President, Business Development & Licensing; Executive Vice President and President; and was named a Corporate Officer by its board of directors. He also served on the board of directors of Sky Growth Holdings Corporation from 2012 until 2015. Prior to joining Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., Mr. Campanelli served as Vice President, Business Development at Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., where he was employed from 1992 to 2001. Mr. Campanelli earned his Bachelor of Science degree from Springfield College.

15
Patrick Barry was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, U.S. Branded Business, effective February 2018. In this role, he has responsibility for all commercial activities for U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals, including strategy, new product planning, marketing, sales as well as managed care and patient access responsibilities. Mr. Barry joined Endo in December 2016 as Senior Vice President, U.S. Branded Pharmaceuticals. Prior to joining Endo, Mr. Barry worked at Sanofi S.A. from 1992 until December 2016, holding roles of increasing responsibility in areas such as Sales Leadership, Commercial Operations, Marketing, Launch Planning and Training and Leadership Development. Most recently, he served at Sanofi S.A. as its General Manager and Head of North America General Medicines starting in September 2015 and as Vice President and Head of U.S. Specialty from April 2014 until August 2015. During this time, Mr. Barry oversaw three complex and diverse businesses with responsibility for leading sales and marketing activities for branded and generic products across the U.S. and Canada. He has a diverse therapeutic experience including aesthetics and dermatology, oncology, urology, orthopedics and medical device and surgical experience. He has an M.B.A. from Cornell University, Johnson School of Management and a B.A. in Public Relations and Marketing from McKendree University.

Domenico Ciarico was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Sterile and Generics, effective August 2019. In this role, Mr. Ciarico leads Endo’s U.S. Generics business including responsibility and oversight of Par Generic and Par Sterile sales teams, commercial operations, marketing and business analytics group. Mr. Ciarico joined Par in July 2018 as SVP and General Manager of Par Sterile Products, responsible for all sales, marketing, pricing and portfolio management for Par Sterile Products. Prior to joining Endo in 2018, Mr. Ciarico was with AmerisourceBergen Corporation (ABC) for over 20 years from May 1996 to July 2017 where he held several roles of increasing responsibility, including SVP of Health Systems, leading health systems sales and commercial strategy. Prior to that, Mr. Ciarico was Group Vice President, managing three of ABC’s service businesses: American Health Packaging, Pharmacy Healthcare Solutions and AmerisourceBergen Technology Group, as well as other key leadership positions in operations and sales. Mr. Ciarico holds an M.B.A. and a B.S. degree from The Ohio State University.

Blaise Coleman was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective December 2016. Mr. Coleman had been serving as Endo’s Interim Chief Financial Officer since November 2016. He joined Endo in January 2015 as Vice President of Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis, and was then promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Finance Operations in November 2015. Prior to joining Endo, Mr. Coleman held numerous finance leadership roles with AstraZeneca, most recently having served as the Chief Financial Officer of the AstraZeneca/Bristol-Myers Squibb US Diabetes Alliance from January 2013 until January 2015. Prior to that, he was the Head of Finance for the AstraZeneca Global Medicines Development organization based in Mölndal, Sweden. Mr. Coleman joined AstraZeneca in 2007 as Senior Director Commercial Finance for the US Cardiovascular Business. He joined AstraZeneca from Centocor, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, where he held positions in both the Licenses & Acquisitions and Commercial Finance organizations. Mr. Coleman’s move to Centocor in early 2003 followed 7 years’ experience with the global public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Mr. Coleman is a Certified Public Accountant; he holds a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Widener University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University.

Terrance J. Coughlin was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, effective November 2016. In this role, Mr. Coughlin has responsibility for Manufacturing and Technical Operations and R&D across the enterprise. Most recently, Mr. Coughlin served as Vice President, Operations of Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., a subsidiary of Endo. Prior to Endo’s acquisition of Par in September 2015, Mr. Coughlin was the Chief Operating Officer of Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. Prior to joining Par, Mr. Coughlin held numerous leadership roles with Glenmark Generics, Inc. USA/Glenmark Generics Limited, most recently having served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Glenmark Generics, Inc. USA/Glenmark Generics Limited. Prior to this, Mr. Coughlin had the overall responsibility for Glenmark’s North American, Western European and Eastern European generics businesses, as well as its global active pharmaceutical ingredient business and generics operations in India. Prior to joining Glenmark, Mr. Coughlin served as Senior Vice President at Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. Mr. Coughlin began his career in 1988 with Wyckoff Chemical Company, Inc. Mr. Coughlin earned a B.S. in chemistry from Central Michigan University.

Rahul Garella was appointed Executive Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals, effective August 2019. In this role, he has responsibility for the overall strategic management, operations and commercial leadership of the International Pharmaceuticals business, which includes Paladin Labs, Canada and Global partnerships in the international markets. Mr. Garella joined Endo in 2014 as Senior Vice President. Mr. Garella has over 23 years’ experience in the pharmaceutical industry across branded and generic pharmaceuticals and APIs with international experience across the European, Asian and Latin America markets. Prior to joining Endo, Mr. Garella served as the Senior Vice President for Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Europe Limited responsible for building and managing their Western European business from 2008 until 2014 and their European and Latin American API business from 2005 until 2008. Previously, he worked with Ranbaxy in their Asia-Pacific division and Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals. He holds a Master of Business Administration (PGDBM) from the Institute of Management Technology, India as well as a Bachelor degree in Electrical Engineering from the Faculty of Engineering, Jamia Millia, New Delhi, India.

16
Matthew J. Maletta was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, effective May 2015, and has global responsibility for all legal matters affecting the Company. Prior to joining Endo in 2015, Mr. Maletta served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Allergan. In this position, he served as an advisor to the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors and supervised several large transactions, including the $70 billion acquisition of Allergan by Actavis in 2015. Mr. Maletta also played a key role defending Allergan from an unsolicited takeover bid by Valeant Pharmaceuticals and Pershing Square Capital Management in 2014. Mr. Maletta joined Allergan in 2002 and during his tenure, held roles of increased responsibility, including serving as the lead commercial attorney for Allergan’s aesthetics businesses for several years and as Head of Human Resources in 2010. Prior to joining Allergan, Mr. Maletta was in private practice, focusing on general corporate matters, finance, governance, securities and transactions. He holds a B.A. degree in political science from the University of Minnesota, summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, and a J.D. degree, cum laude, from the University of Minnesota Law School.

We have employment agreements with each of our executive officers.

Available Information

Our internet address is www.endo.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our internet address is included in this document as an inactive textual reference only. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy reports and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC.

You can access our filings through the SEC’s internet site: www.sec.gov (intended to be an inactive textual reference only).

You may also access copies of the Company’s filings with the Canadian Securities Administrators on SEDAR through their internet site: www.sedar.com (intended to be an inactive textual reference only).

Item 1A. Risk Factors