Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the financial markets, including interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our variable-rate indebtedness associated with our Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate principal amounts of such variable-rate indebtedness were $3,629.6 million and $3,363.8 million, respectively. Borrowings under the Credit Facilities may from time to time bear interest at variable rates, as further described in Note 14. Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report, in certain cases subject to a floor. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, a hypothetical 1% increase in the applicable rate over the floor would have resulted in $36.3 million and $33.6 million, respectively, of incremental interest expense (representing the annual rate of expense) related to our variable-rate debt borrowings.

To the extent that we utilize additional amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility or otherwise increase the amount of our variable-rate indebtedness, we will be exposed to additional interest rate risk.

As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had no other assets or liabilities with significant interest rate sensitivity.

68
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We operate and transact business in various foreign countries and are therefore subject to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company manages this foreign currency risk, in part, through operational means including managing foreign currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and foreign currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. The Company is also exposed to potential earnings effects from intercompany foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from normal trade receivables and payables and other intercompany loans. Additionally, certain of the Company’s subsidiaries maintain their books of record in currencies other than their respective functional currencies. These subsidiaries’ financial statements are remeasured into their respective functional currencies. Such remeasurement adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.

All assets and liabilities of our international subsidiaries, which maintain their financial statements in local currency, are translated to U.S. dollars at period-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments arising from the use of differing exchange rates are included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and short-term intercompany receivables from foreign subsidiaries are included in Other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Refer to Note 19. Other Expense (Income), Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for the amount of Foreign currency loss (gain), net.

Based on the Company’s significant foreign currency denominated intercompany loans, we separately considered the hypothetical impact of a 10% change in the underlying currencies of our foreign currency denominated intercompany loans, relative to the U.S. dollar, at December 31, 2019 and 2018. A 10% change at December 31, 2019 would have resulted in approximately $11 million in incremental foreign currency losses on such date. A 10% change at December 31, 2018 would have resulted in approximately $9 million in incremental foreign currency losses on such date.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data