Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations describes the principal factors affecting the results of operations, liquidity and capital resources and critical accounting estimates of Endo International plc. This section omits discussions about 2017 items and comparisons between 2018 and 2017. Such discussions can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. These discussions should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto. Except for the historical information contained in this report, including the following discussion, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Forward-Looking Statements” beginning on page i of this report.

Unless otherwise indicated or required by the context, references throughout to “Endo,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to financial information and transactions of Endo International plc and its subsidiaries.

The operating results of Astora are reported as Discontinued operations, net of tax in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. For additional information, see Note 3. Discontinued Operations and Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This executive summary provides 2019 highlights from the results of operations that follow:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Additionally, the following summary highlights certain key events that occurred during 2019:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts and disclosures in our Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto, and elsewhere in this report. For example, we are required to make significant estimates and assumptions related to revenue recognition, including sales deductions, long-lived assets, goodwill, other intangible assets, income taxes, contingencies, financial instruments and share-based compensation, among others. Some of these estimates can be subjective and complex. Although we believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, there may be other reasonable estimates or assumptions that differ significantly from ours. Further, our estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time they were made. Actual results may differ significantly from our estimates.

51
Accordingly, in order to understand our Consolidated Financial Statements, it is important to understand our critical accounting estimates. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if both: (i) the accounting estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made and (ii) changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, or use of different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, would have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our most critical accounting estimates are described below.

Revenue recognition

The Company adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all revenue-generating contracts, including modifications thereto, that were not completed contracts at the date of adoption. ASC 606 applies to contracts with commercial substance that establish the payment terms and each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred, to the extent collection of substantially all of the related consideration is probable. Under ASC 606, we recognize revenue for contracts meeting these criteria when (or as) we satisfy our performance obligations for such contracts by transferring control of the underlying promised goods or services to our customers. The amount of revenue we recognize reflects our estimate of the consideration we expect to be entitled to receive, subject to certain constraints, in exchange for such goods or services. This amount is referred to as the transaction price.

Our revenue consists almost entirely of sales of our products to customers, whereby we ship products to a customer pursuant to a purchase order. For contracts such as these, revenue is recognized when our contractual performance obligations have been fulfilled and control has been transferred to the customer pursuant to the contract’s terms, which is generally upon delivery to the customer. The amount of revenue we recognize is equal to the fixed amount of the transaction price, adjusted for our estimates of a number of significant variable components including, but not limited to, estimates for chargebacks, rebates, sales incentives and allowances, DSA and other fees for services, returns and allowances, which we collectively refer to as sales deductions.

The Company utilizes the expected value method when estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price with respect to each of the foregoing variable components and the most likely amount method when estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price with respect to future potential milestone payments that do not qualify for the sales- and usage-based royalty exception. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant revenue reversal will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. The variable component of the transaction price is estimated based on factors such as our direct and indirect customers’ buying patterns and the estimated resulting contractual deduction rates, historical experience, specific known market events and estimated future trends, current contractual and statutory requirements, industry data, estimated customer inventory levels, current contract sales terms with our direct and indirect customers and other competitive factors. We subsequently review our estimates for sales deductions based on new or revised information that becomes available to us and make revisions to our estimates if and when appropriate. Refer to “Sales deductions” section below for additional information.

We believe that speculative buying of product, particularly in anticipation of possible price increases, has been the historical practice of certain of our customers. The timing of purchasing decisions made by wholesaler and large retail chain customers can materially affect the level of our sales in any particular period. Accordingly, our sales may not correlate to the number of prescriptions written for our products based on external third-party data.

We have entered into DSAs with certain of our significant wholesaler customers that obligate the wholesalers, in exchange for fees paid by us, to: (i) manage the variability of their purchases and inventory levels within specified limits based on product demand and (ii) provide us with specific services, including the provision of periodic retail demand information and current inventory levels for our pharmaceutical products held at their warehouse locations.

52
Sales deductions

As described above, the amount of revenue we recognize is equal to the fixed amount of the transaction price, adjusted for our estimates of variable consideration, including sales deductions. If the assumptions we use to calculate our estimates for sales deductions do not appropriately reflect future activity, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially impacted. The following table presents the activity and ending balances, excluding Discontinued operations, for our product sales provisions for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Returns and Allowances

Consistent with industry practice, we maintain a return policy that allows our customers to return products within a specified period of time both subsequent to and, in certain cases, prior to the products’ expiration dates. Our return policy generally allows customers to receive credit for expired products within six months prior to expiration and within one year after expiration. Our provision for returns and allowances consists of our estimates for future product returns, pricing adjustments and delivery errors. The primary factors we consider in estimating our potential product returns include:

•the shelf life or expiration date of each product;

•historical levels of expired product returns;

•external data with respect to inventory levels in the wholesale distribution channel;

•external data with respect to prescription demand for our products; and

•the estimated returns liability to be processed by year of sale based on analysis of lot information related to actual historical returns.

In determining our estimates for returns and allowances, we are required to make certain assumptions regarding the timing of the introduction of new products and the potential of these products to capture market share. In addition, we make certain assumptions with respect to the extent and pattern of decline associated with generic competition. To make these assessments, we utilize market data for similar products as analogs for our estimations. We use our best judgment to formulate these assumptions based on past experience and information available to us at the time. We continually reassess and make appropriate changes to our estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available to us.

Our estimate for returns and allowances may be impacted by a number of factors, but the principal factor relates to the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Where available, we utilize information received from our wholesaler customers about the quantities of inventory held, including the information received pursuant to DSAs, which we have not independently verified. For other customers, we have estimated inventory held based on buying patterns. In addition, we evaluate market conditions for products primarily through the analysis of wholesaler and other third party sell-through data, as well as internally-generated information, to assess factors that could impact expected product demand at the estimate date. As of December 31, 2019, we believe that our estimates of the level of inventory held by our customers is within a reasonable range as compared to both historical amounts and expected demand for each respective product.

When we are aware of an increase in the level of inventory of our products in the distribution channel, we consider the reasons for the increase to determine whether we believe the increase is temporary or other-than-temporary. Increases in inventory levels assessed as temporary will not result in an adjustment to our provision for returns and allowances. Some of the factors that may be an indication that an increase in inventory levels will be temporary include:

•recently implemented or announced price increases for our products; and

•new product launches or expanded indications for our existing products.

53
Conversely, other-than-temporary increases in inventory levels may be an indication that future product returns could be higher than originally anticipated and, accordingly, we may need to adjust our provision for returns and allowances. Some of the factors that may be an indication that an increase in inventory levels will be other-than-temporary include:

•declining sales trends based on prescription demand;

•recent regulatory approvals to shorten the shelf life of our products, which could result in a period of higher returns related to older product still in the distribution channel;

•introduction of new product or generic competition;

•increasing price competition from generic competitors; and[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Rebates

Our provision for rebates, sales incentives and other allowances can generally be categorized into the following four types:

•direct rebates;

•indirect rebates;

•governmental rebates, including those for Medicaid, Medicare and TRICARE, among others; and

•managed-care rebates.

We establish contracts with wholesalers, chain stores and indirect customers that provide for rebates, sales incentives, DSA fees and other allowances. Some customers receive rebates upon attaining established sales volumes. Direct rebates are generally rebates paid to direct purchasing customers based on a percentage applied to a direct customer’s purchases from us, including fees paid to wholesalers under our DSAs, as described above. Indirect rebates are rebates paid to indirect customers that have purchased our products from a wholesaler under a contract with us.

We are subject to rebates on sales made under governmental and managed-care pricing programs based on relevant statutes with respect to governmental pricing programs and contractual sales terms with respect to managed-care providers and GPOs. For example, we are required to provide a discount on our brand-name products to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also referred to as the donut hole.

We participate in various federal and state government-managed programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating government entities. For example, Medicaid rebates are amounts owed based upon contractual agreements or legal requirements with public sector (Medicaid) benefit providers after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. Medicaid reserves are based on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage, contract performance and field inventory that will be subject to a Medicaid rebate. Medicaid rebates are typically billed up to 180 days after the product is shipped, but can be as much as 270 days after the quarter in which the product is dispensed to the Medicaid participant. Periodically, we adjust the Medicaid rebate provision based on actual claims paid. Due to the delay in billing, adjustments to actual claims paid may incorporate revisions of this provision for several periods. Because Medicaid pricing programs involve particularly difficult interpretations of complex statutes and regulatory guidance, our estimates could differ from actual experience.

In determining our estimates for rebates, we consider the terms of our contracts and relevant statutes, together with information about sales mix (to determine which sales are subject to rebates and the amount of such rebates), historical relationships of rebates to revenues, past payment experience, estimated inventory levels of our customers and estimated future trends. Our provisions for rebates include estimates for both unbilled claims for end-customer sales that have already occurred and future claims that will be made when inventory in the distribution channel is sold through to end-customer plan participants. Changes in the level of utilization of our products through private or public benefit plans and GPOs will affect the amount of rebates that we owe.

Chargebacks

We market and sell products to both: (i) direct customers including wholesalers, distributors, warehousing pharmacy chains and other direct purchasing groups and (ii) indirect customers including independent pharmacies, non-warehousing chains, MCOs, GPOs and government entities. We enter into agreements with certain of our indirect customers to establish contract pricing for certain products. These indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which to purchase the products at these contracted prices. Alternatively, we may pre-authorize wholesalers to offer specified contract pricing to other indirect customers. Under either arrangement, we provide credit to the wholesaler for any difference between the contracted price with the indirect customer and the wholesaler’s invoice price. Such credit is called a chargeback.

Our provision for chargebacks consists of our estimates for the credits described above. The primary factors we consider in developing and evaluating our provision for chargebacks include:

•the average historical chargeback credits;

•estimated future sales trends; and

54
•an estimate of the inventory held by our wholesalers, based on internal analysis of a wholesaler’s historical purchases and contract sales.

Other sales deductions

We offer prompt-pay cash discounts to certain of our customers. Provisions for such discounts are estimated and recorded at the time of sale. We estimate provisions for cash discounts based on contractual sales terms with customers, an analysis of unpaid invoices and historical payment experience. Estimated cash discounts have historically been predictable and less subjective due to the limited number of assumptions involved, the consistency of historical experience and the fact that we generally settle these amounts within 30 to 60 days.

Shelf-stock adjustments are credits issued to our customers to reflect decreases in the selling prices of our products. These credits are customary in the industry and are intended to reduce a customer’s inventory cost to better reflect current market prices. The determination to grant a shelf-stock credit to a customer following a price decrease is generally at our discretion, rather than contractually required. The primary factors we consider when deciding whether to record a reserve for a shelf-stock adjustment include:

•the estimated number of competing products being launched as well as the expected launch date, which we determine based on market intelligence;

•the estimated decline in the market price of our product, which we determine based on historical experience and customer input; and

•the estimated levels of inventory held by our customers at the time of the anticipated decrease in market price, which we determine based upon historical experience and customer input.

Valuation of long-lived assets

As of December 31, 2019, our combined long-lived assets balance, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is approximately $3.0 billion. Our finite-lived intangible assets consist of license rights and developed technology.

Long-lived assets are generally initially recorded at fair value if acquired in a business combination, or at cost if otherwise. To the extent any such asset is deemed to have a finite life, it is then amortized over its estimated useful life using either the straight-line method or, in the case of certain developed technology assets, an accelerated amortization model. The values of these various assets are subject to continuing scientific, medical and marketplace uncertainty. Factors giving rise to our initial estimate of useful lives are subject to change. Significant changes to any of these factors may result in a reduction in the useful life of the asset and an acceleration of related amortization expense, which could cause our net income and net income per share to decrease. Amortization expense is not recorded on assets held for sale.

Long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amounts of the assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset that will continue to be used in our operations is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the forecasted undiscounted future cash flows related to the asset. In the event the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its undiscounted future cash flows and the carrying amount is not considered recoverable, impairment may exist. An impairment loss, if any, is measured as the excess of the asset’s carrying amount over its fair value, generally based on a discounted future cash flow method, independent appraisals or offers from prospective buyers. An impairment loss would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period that the impairment occurs. As a result of the significance of our long-lived assets, any recognized impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.

Our reviews of long-lived assets during the two years ended December 31, 2019 resulted in certain impairment charges. The majority of these charges related to finite-lived intangible assets, which are described in Note 10. Goodwill and Other Intangibles in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Our impairment charges relating to long-lived assets were generally based on fair value estimates determined using either discounted cash flow models or offers from prospective buyers. When testing a long-lived asset using a discounted cash flow model, we utilize assumptions related to the future operating performance of the corresponding product based on management’s annual and ongoing budgeting, forecasting and planning processes, which represent our best estimate of future cash flows. These estimates are subject to many assumptions, such as the economic environment in which our segments operate, demand for our products, competitor actions and factors which could affect our tax rate. Estimated future pre-tax cash flows are adjusted for taxes using a market participant tax rate and discounted to present value using a market participant, weighted average cost of capital. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts certain inputs and assumptions used to develop the weighted average cost of capital such as the risk-free interest rate, industry beta, debt interest rate and our market capital structure. These assumptions are based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements within the fair value hierarchy. The use of different inputs and assumptions would increase or decrease our estimated discounted future cash flows, the resulting estimated fair values and the amounts of our related impairments, if any. The discount rates applied to intangible long-lived assets impaired in 2019 ranged from 9.5% to 12.0%.

55
Events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and cannot be predicted. Factors that we consider in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under-performance of a product line in relation to expectations, competitive events affecting the expected future performance of a product line, significant negative industry or economic trends and significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets.

Each category of long-lived intangible assets is described further below.

Developed Technology. Our developed technology assets subject to amortization have useful lives ranging from 4 years to 20 years, with a weighted average useful life of approximately 11 years. We determine amortization periods and methods of amortization for developed technology assets based on our assessment of various factors impacting estimated useful lives and the timing and extent of estimated cash flows of the acquired assets, including the strength of the intellectual property protection of the product (if applicable), contractual terms and various other competitive and regulatory issues. 

License Rights. Our license rights subject to amortization have useful lives ranging from 12 years to 15 years, with a weighted average useful life of approximately 14 years. We determine amortization periods for licenses based on our assessment of various factors including the expected launch date of the product, the strength of the intellectual property protection of the product (if applicable), contractual terms and various other competitive, developmental and regulatory issues. 

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets

As of December 31, 2019, our combined goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets balance is approximately $3.7 billion.

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Our annual assessment is performed as of October 1.

We perform the goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value and carrying amount of each reporting unit. Any goodwill impairment charge we recognize for a reporting unit is equal to the lesser of (i) the total goodwill allocated to that reporting unit and (ii) the amount by which that reporting unit’s carrying amount exceeds its fair value. 

Similarly, we perform our indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests by comparing the fair value of each intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.

We estimate the fair values of our reporting units and of identified indefinite-lived intangible assets using an income approach that utilizes a discounted cash flow model or, where appropriate, a market approach. The discounted cash flow models are dependent upon our estimates of future cash flows and other factors including estimates of (i) future operating performance, including future sales, long-term growth rates, operating margins, discount rates, variations in the amount and timing of cash flows and the probability of achieving the estimated cash flows and (ii) future economic conditions, all of which may differ from actual future cash flows.

Assumptions related to future operating performance are based on management’s annual and ongoing budgeting, forecasting and planning processes, which represent our best estimate of future cash flows. These estimates are subject to many assumptions, such as the economic environment in which our segments operate, demand for our products, competitor actions and factors which could affect our tax rate. Estimated future pre-tax cash flows are adjusted for taxes using a market participant tax rate and discounted to present value using a market participant, weighted average cost of capital. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts certain inputs and assumptions used to develop the weighted average cost of capital such as the risk-free interest rate, industry beta, debt interest rate and our market capital structure. These assumptions are based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements within the fair value hierarchy. The use of different inputs and assumptions would increase or decrease our estimated discounted future cash flows, the resulting estimated fair values and the amounts of our related impairments, if any.

In order to assess the reasonableness of the calculated fair values of our reporting units, we also compare the sum of the reporting units’ fair values to Endo’s market capitalization and calculate an implied control premium (the excess sum of the reporting units’ fair values over the market capitalization) or an implied control discount (the excess sum of total invested capital over the sum of the reporting units’ fair values). The Company evaluates the implied control premium or discount by comparing it to control premiums or discounts of recent comparable market transactions, as applicable. If the control premium or discount is not reasonable in light of comparable recent transactions, or recent movements in the Company’s share price, we reevaluate the fair value estimates of the reporting units by adjusting discount rates and/or other assumptions. This re-evaluation could correlate to different implied fair values for certain or all of the Company’s reporting units.

As further described in Note 10. Goodwill and Other Intangibles in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report, we recorded pre-tax, non-cash goodwill impairment charges relating to our Generic Pharmaceuticals reporting unit of $86.0 million and $65.1 million during the first and second quarters of 2019, respectively. Following the second-quarter 2019 impairment, there was no remaining goodwill associated with this reporting unit.

56
Endo subsequently performed its annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment tests as of October 1, 2019. For the purpose of the 2019 annual tests, the Company had three reporting units with goodwill: Branded Pharmaceuticals, Sterile Injectables and Paladin. The fair values of each of our reporting units and of our indefinite-lived intangible assets were determined using an income approach with discount rates ranging from 9.5% to 13.5%, depending on the overall risk associated with the particular assets and other market factors. We believe the discount rates and other inputs and assumptions are consistent with those that a market participant would use. As a result of the 2019 annual test, the Company recorded a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $20.8 million during the fourth quarter of 2019 related to its Paladin reporting unit. No other goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges were recorded as a result of the 2019 annual test. A 50 basis point increase in the assumed discount rate utilized in each test would have increased our Paladin reporting unit goodwill impairment charge by approximately $5 million and would not have changed the outcomes of our Branded Pharmaceuticals and Sterile Injectables goodwill impairment tests or our indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests.

Additional information about the impairment tests is provided in Note 10. Goodwill and Other Intangibles in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Income taxes

Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, income tax payable and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous other jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense or benefit for financial statement purposes. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences, which result in future taxable or deductible amounts, between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the corresponding amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets, we consider, when appropriate, future taxable income by tax jurisdiction and tax planning strategies. Where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax assets to equal an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In projecting future taxable income, we consider historical results, adjusted in certain cases for the results of discontinued operations, changes in tax laws or nonrecurring transactions. We incorporate assumptions about the amount of future earnings within a specific jurisdiction’s pretax income, adjusted for material changes included in business operations. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and, while these assumptions rely heavily on estimates, such estimates are consistent with the plans we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Future changes in tax laws and rates, including further administrative or regulatory guidance related to the TCJA, could affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities. Any adjustments to these estimates will generally be recorded as an income tax expense or benefit in the period the adjustment is determined.

The calculation of our tax liabilities often involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. A benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes. We first record unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities and then adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available at the time of establishing the liability. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment, potentially including interest and penalties, that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences, along with any related interest and penalties, will generally be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information becomes available.

We make an evaluation at the end of each reporting period as to whether or not some or all of the undistributed earnings of our subsidiaries are indefinitely reinvested. While we may have concluded in the past that some of such undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested, facts and circumstances may change in the future. Changes in facts and circumstances may include changes in the estimated capital needs of our subsidiaries or in our corporate liquidity requirements. Such changes could result in our management determining that some or all of such undistributed earnings are no longer indefinitely reinvested. In that event, we would be required to adjust our income tax provision in the period we determined that the earnings will no longer be indefinitely reinvested outside the relevant tax jurisdiction.

Contingencies

The Company is subject to various patent challenges, product liability claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. Material legal proceedings are discussed in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Contingent accruals and legal settlements are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as Litigation-related and other contingencies, net (or as Discontinued operations, net of tax in the case of vaginal mesh matters) when the Company determines that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Legal fees and other expenses related to litigation are expensed as incurred and included in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (or as Discontinued operations, net of tax in the case of vaginal mesh matters).

57
Due to the fact that legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, our estimates of the probability and amount of any such liabilities involve significant judgment regarding future events. The factors we consider in developing our liabilities for legal proceedings include the merits and jurisdiction of the proceeding, the nature and the number of other similar current and past proceedings, the nature of the product and the current assessment of the science subject to the proceeding, if applicable, and the likelihood of the conditions of settlement being met.

In order to evaluate whether a claim is probable of loss, we may rely on certain information about the claim. Without access to and review of such information, we may not be in a position to determine whether a loss is probable. Further, the timing and extent to which we obtain any such information, and our evaluation thereof, is often impacted by items outside of our control including, without limitation, the normal cadence of the litigation process and the provision of claim information to us by plaintiff’s counsel. The amount of our liabilities for legal proceedings may change as we receive additional information and/or become aware of additional asserted or unasserted claims. Additionally, there is a possibility that we will suffer adverse decisions or verdicts of substantial amounts or that we will enter into additional monetary settlements, either of which could be in excess of amounts previously accrued for. Any changes to our liabilities for legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

As of December 31, 2019, our accrual for loss contingencies totaled $513.0 million, the most significant components of which relate to product liability and related matters associated with vaginal mesh. Although we believe there is a reasonable possibility that a loss in excess of the amount recognized exists, we are unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount recognized at this time.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated Results Review

The following table displays our revenue, gross margin, gross margin percentage and other pre-tax expense or income for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

NM indicates that the percentage change is not meaningful or is greater than 100%.

Total revenues, net. Revenues from our Sterile Injectables segment, including VASOSTRICT® and ADRENALIN®, our Branded Pharmaceuticals segment’s Specialty Products portfolio, led by XIAFLEX®, and recent product launches, as further described below, increased during 2019. Revenues from our Branded Pharmaceuticals segment’s Established Products portfolio and both our Generic Pharmaceuticals and International Pharmaceuticals segments decreased during 2019. Our revenues are further disaggregated and described below under the heading “Business Segment Results Review.”

58
Cost of revenues and gross margin percentage. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we incurred certain charges that impact the comparability of total Cost of revenues, including those related to amortization expense and retention and separation benefits and other cost reduction initiatives, including restructurings. The following table summarizes such amounts (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reductions to amortization expense and expenses related to retention and separation benefits and other cost reduction initiatives resulted in decreased Cost of revenues and increased gross margin percentage. The overall decrease in revenues described above also contributed to the decrease in Cost of revenues. Changes in product mix partially offset these items. These changes in mix included both the favorable impact of overall shifts to higher margin Sterile Injectables and Specialty Products from lower margin Generic Pharmaceuticals and Established Products, as well as the unfavorable impact of increased sales of certain lower margin authorized generic products launched since the third quarter of 2018.

Selling, general and administrative expenses. The decrease in 2019 was primarily driven by decreases in long-term incentive compensation costs related primarily to the timing of certain 2018 awards, the impact of certain separations, restructurings and other cost reduction initiatives and a lower branded prescription drug fee. These decreases were partially offset by increased costs related to our continued investment and promotional efforts behind XIAFLEX®, costs associated with our planned commercial launch of CCH for the treatment of cellulite in the buttocks, a third-quarter 2019 premium associated with an extended reporting period endorsement on an expiring insurance program, increased legal costs related to certain litigation matters and costs related to retention bonuses awarded to certain senior management of the Company in 2019. Our material restructuring initiatives and legal proceedings and other contingent matters are described more fully in Note 4. Restructuring and Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies, respectively, in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

We expect Selling, general and administrative expense in 2020 to increase compared to 2019, primarily due to costs associated with our planned commercial launch of CCH for the treatment of cellulite in the buttocks, if approved.

R&D expenses. The amount of R&D expense we record in any period varies depending on the nature and stage of development of our R&D programs and can also vary in periods in which we incur significant upfront or milestone charges related to agreements with third parties.

In recent years, our R&D efforts have focused primarily on developing a balanced, diversified portfolio of innovative and clinically differentiated product candidates. We have been progressing and expect to continue to progress our cellulite treatment development program. In early 2020, we announced that we had initiated our XIAFLEX® development programs for the treatment of plantar fibromatosis and adhesive capsulitis. We also expect to continue to focus investments in our Sterile Injectables segment, potentially including license and commercialization agreements such as our Nevakar, Inc. agreement, which is further described in Note 11. License and Collaboration Agreements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. In addition, we are conducting an open-label Phase 1 pharmacokinetic (PK) study of VASOSTRICT® in healthy volunteers, studying plasma clearance with TT genotype versus AA/AT genotype.

In 2019, R&D expense decreased, primarily due to reduced costs associated with our clinical trials of CCH for the treatment of cellulite, the impact of a 2018 upfront payment of $35.0 million related to the Nevakar, Inc. agreement and the impact of certain separations, restructurings and other cost reduction initiatives. Partially offsetting these decreases was the impact of costs associated with certain post-marketing commitments. Our material restructuring initiatives are described more fully in Note 4. Restructuring in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. 

Litigation-related and other contingencies, net. Included within Litigation-related and other contingencies, net are changes to our accruals for litigation-related settlement charges and certain settlement proceeds related to suits filed by our subsidiaries. Our material legal proceedings and other contingent matters are described in more detail in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. As further described therein, adjustments to the corresponding liability accruals may be required in the future. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

59
Asset impairment charges. The following table presents the components of our total Asset impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The factors leading to our material goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests, as well as the results of these tests, are further described in Note 10. Goodwill and Other Intangibles in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. A discussion of critical accounting estimates made in connection with certain of our impairment tests is included above under the caption “CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES.”

Acquisition-related and integration items, net. Acquisition-related and integration items, net in 2019 and 2018 primarily consist of the net (benefit) expense from changes in the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities resulting from changes to our estimates regarding the timing and amount of the future revenues of the underlying products and changes in other assumptions impacting the probability of incurring, and extent to which we could incur, related contingent obligations. See Note 6. Fair Value Measurements in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for further discussion of our acquisition-related contingent consideration.

Interest expense, net. The components of Interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense in 2019 was primarily attributable to changes to LIBOR that impacted our variable-rate debt, increases to the weighted average interest rate applicable to our senior notes and senior secured notes following the March 2019 Refinancing Transactions and interest expense associated with our June 2019 Revolving Credit Facility draw of $300.0 million. These increases were partially offset by the reductions to the amount of our indebtedness associated with the March 2019 Refinancing Transactions. Refer to Note 14. Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for further discussion of these transactions. Changes in interest rates could increase our interest expense in the future, which could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Interest income varies primarily based on the amounts of our interest-bearing investments, such as money market funds, as well as changes in the corresponding interest rates.

(Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt. The gain on extinguishment of debt recognized in 2019 relates to the March 2019 Refinancing Transactions. Refer to Note 14. Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for further discussion.

Other expense (income), net. The components of Other expense (income), net for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For additional information on the components of Other expense (income), net, refer to Note 19. Other Expense (Income), Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

60
Income tax expense (benefit). The following table displays our Loss from continuing operations before income tax, Income tax expense and Effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in non-U.S. jurisdictions as compared to the notional U.S. federal statutory tax rate, and the relative amount of income or loss in those various jurisdictions. It is also impacted by certain items that may occur in any given period, but are not consistent from period to period.

The income tax expense in 2019 primarily related to accrued interest on uncertain tax positions. The income tax expense in 2018 primarily related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain U.S. deferred tax assets.

We have valuation allowances established against our deferred tax assets in most jurisdictions in which we operate, with the exception of Canada and India. Accordingly, it would be unlikely for future pre-tax losses to create a tax benefit that would be more likely than not to be realized. Although the Company has valuation allowances established against deferred tax assets in most major jurisdictions as of December 31, 2019, it is possible that there could be material reversals, particularly if certain proposed law changes were to be enacted.

The IRS presently is examining certain of our subsidiaries’ U.S. income tax returns for fiscal years ended between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2015 and, in connection with those examinations, is reviewing our tax positions related to, among other things, certain intercompany arrangements, including the level of profit earned by our U.S. subsidiaries pursuant to such arrangements, and a worthless stock deduction directly attributable to product liability losses. The IRS may examine our tax returns for other fiscal years and/or for other tax positions. Similarly, other tax authorities, including the Canada Revenue Agency, are currently examining our non-U.S. tax returns. Additionally, other jurisdictions where we are not currently under audit remain subject to potential future examinations. Such examinations may lead to proposed or actual adjustments to our taxes that may be material, individually or in the aggregate. An adverse outcome of these tax examinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See the risk factor “We may not be able to successfully maintain our low tax rates or other tax positions, which could adversely affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects” in Part I, Item 1A of this document for more information.

For additional information on our income taxes, see Note 20. Income Taxes in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Discontinued operations, net of tax. The operating results of the Company’s Astora business, which the Board resolved to wind-down in 2016, are reported as Discontinued operations, net of tax in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The results of our discontinued operations, net of tax, were losses of $62.1 million and $69.7 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. These amounts consist of Litigation-related and other contingencies, net of $30.4 million and $34.0 million, respectively, mesh-related legal defense costs and certain other items. For additional discussion of mesh-related matters, refer to Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Key Trends. We estimate that the following factors will impact our 2020 total revenues as compared to 2019:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

These estimated trends reflect the current expectations of the Company’s management team based on information currently known to them. These estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such estimated trends.

61
Business Segment Results Review

During the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed the names of its reportable segments. This change, which was intended to simplify the segments’ names, had no impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements or segment results for any of the periods presented. Refer to Note 5. Segment Results in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for further details regarding this change, our reportable segments in general and segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax (the measure we use to evaluate segment performance), as well as reconciliations of Total consolidated loss from continuing operations before income tax, which is determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, to our total segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax.

We refer to segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax, a financial measure not defined by U.S. GAAP, in making operating decisions because we believe it provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance. For instance, we believe that this measure facilitates internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors’ results. We believe this measure is useful to investors in allowing for greater transparency related to supplemental information used in our financial and operational decision-making. Further, we believe that segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax may be useful to investors as we are aware that certain of our significant shareholders utilize segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax to evaluate our financial performance. Finally, segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax is utilized in the calculation of other financial measures not determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP that are used by the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board in assessing the performance and compensation of substantially all of our employees, including our executive officers.

There are limitations to using financial measures such as segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax. Other companies in our industry may define segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax differently than we do. As a result, it may be difficult to use segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax or similarly named adjusted financial measures that other companies may use to compare the performance of those companies to our performance. Because of these limitations, segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax is not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by U.S. GAAP and should not be used as an indicator of operating performance, a measure of liquidity or as alternative to net income, cash flows or any other financial measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by providing, in Note 5. Segment Results in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report, reconciliations of Total consolidated loss from continuing operations before income tax, which is determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, to our total segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax.

Revenues, net. The following table displays our revenue by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Revenues generated by our International Pharmaceuticals segment are primarily attributable to external customers located in Canada. 

62
Branded Pharmaceuticals. The following table displays the significant components of our Branded Pharmaceuticals revenues from external customers for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Specialty Products

The increase in XIAFLEX® in 2019 was primarily attributable to demand growth driven by the continued investment and promotional efforts behind XIAFLEX®, as well as price.

The increase in SUPPRELIN® LA in 2019 was primarily attributable to increases in both volume and price.

The increase in Other Specialty Products in 2019 was primarily attributable to increased volume of both NASCOBAL® Nasal Spray and AVEED®.

Established Products

The decrease in PERCOCET® in 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased volume, partially offset by increased price.

The decrease in TESTOPEL® in 2019 was primarily attributable to both price and volume decreases.

The decrease in Other Established Products in 2019 was primarily attributable to volume decreases as a result of ongoing competitive pressures.

Sterile Injectables. The following table displays the significant components of our Sterile Injectables revenues from external customers for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________

(1)Products included within Other Sterile Injectables include ephedrine sulfate injection, treprostinil for injection and others.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

63
The increase in VASOSTRICT® in 2019 was primarily attributable to changes in price, volume and mix of business. As of December 31, 2019, we have six patents for VASOSTRICT® listed in the Orange Book and additional patents pending with the PTO. The FDA requires any applicant seeking FDA approval for vasopressin prior to patent expiry and relying on VASOSTRICT® as the reference-listed drug to notify us of its filing before the FDA will issue an approval. As further discussed in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report under the heading “VASOSTRICT® Related Matters,” we are aware of certain competitive actions taken by other pharmaceutical companies related to VASOSTRICT®. We have taken and plan to continue to take actions in our best interest to protect our rights with respect to VASOSTRICT®. The introduction of any competing versions of VASOSTRICT® could result in reductions to our market share, revenues, profitability and cash flows.

The increase in ADRENALIN® in 2019 was primarily attributable to increased price and volume.

Ertapenem for injection, the authorized generic of Invanz®, launched during the third quarter of 2018. The increase in 2019 was driven by the timing of this product’s launch.

The decrease in APLISOL® in 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased volume, partially offset by increased price.

The decrease in Other Sterile Injectables in 2019 was primarily driven by certain competitive pressures impacting multiple products in this portfolio.

Generic Pharmaceuticals. The decrease for the Generic Pharmaceuticals segment in 2019 was primarily attributable to continued competitive pressure on commoditized generic products. Partially offsetting the decrease were the impacts of certain recent product launches including, among others, the second-quarter 2019 launch of albuterol sulfate HFA inhalation aerosol, the authorized generic of Proventil®, and the third-quarter 2018 launch of colchicine tablets.

International Pharmaceuticals. The decrease for the International Pharmaceuticals segment in 2019 was primarily attributable to competitive pressures in certain international markets and the impact of certain product discontinuation activities.

Segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax. The following table displays our segment adjusted income from continuing operations before income tax by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Branded Pharmaceuticals. The decrease in 2019 was primarily attributable to increased costs related to our continued investment and promotional efforts behind XIAFLEX® and costs associated with our planned commercial launch of CCH for the treatment of cellulite in the buttocks. This was offset by increased gross margins resulting from changes in product mix and lower R&D expense resulting from reduced costs associated with our clinical trials of CCH, partially offset by increased costs associated with certain post-marketing commitments.

Sterile Injectables. The increase in 2019 was primarily driven by increased revenues and gross margins resulting from strong performance across several products in this segment.

Generic Pharmaceuticals. The decrease in 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased revenues as described above and the resulting reduction to gross margin. Additionally, gross margin was negatively impacted by changes in product mix resulting from increased sales of certain lower margin authorized generic products. These decreases were partially offset by reduced expenses including the impact of certain restructuring and other cost saving initiatives and a lower branded prescription drug fee. Our material restructuring initiatives are described in Note 4. Restructuring in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

International Pharmaceuticals. The decrease in 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased revenues as described above and the resulting reduction to gross margin.

64
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations. Our principal liquidity requirements are primarily for working capital for operations, licenses, milestone payments, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contingent liabilities, debt service payments and litigation-related matters, including vaginal mesh liability payments. The Company’s working capital was $1,125.9 million at December 31, 2019 compared to working capital of $393.1 million at December 31, 2018. The amounts at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 include restricted cash and cash equivalents of $242.8 million and $299.7 million, respectively, held in QSFs for mesh-related matters. Although these amounts in QSFs are included in working capital, they are required to be used for mesh product liability settlement agreements.

Cash and cash equivalents, which primarily consisted of bank deposits and money market accounts, totaled $1,454.5 million at December 31, 2019 compared to $1,149.1 million at December 31, 2018. We expect our operating cash flows, together with our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents, to be sufficient to cover our principal liquidity requirements over the next year. However, on a longer term basis, we may not be able to accurately predict the effect of certain developments on our sales and gross margins, such as the degree of market acceptance, patent protection and exclusivity of our products, pricing pressures (including those due to the impact of competition), the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and the outcome of our current efforts to develop, receive approval for and successfully launch our product candidates. We may also face unexpected expenses in connection with our business operations, including expenses related to our ongoing and future legal proceedings and governmental investigations and other contingent liabilities. Furthermore, we may not be successful in implementing, or may face unexpected changes or expenses in connection with our strategic direction, including the potential for opportunistic corporate development transactions. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

From time to time, we may seek to enter into certain transactions to reduce our leverage and/or interest expense and/or to extend the maturities of our outstanding indebtedness. Such transactions could include, for example, transactions to exchange existing indebtedness for our ordinary shares, to issue equity (including convertible securities) or to repurchase, redeem, exchange or refinance our existing indebtedness (including the Credit Agreement). In order to finance any such transactions, we may need to obtain additional funding and in certain circumstances we may issue additional secured indebtedness. Any of these transactions could impact our liquidity or results of operations.

We may also require additional financing to fund our future operational needs or for future corporate transactions, including acquisitions. We have historically had broad access to financial markets that provide liquidity; however, we cannot be certain that funding will be available to us in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any issuances of equity securities or convertible securities, in connection with an acquisition or otherwise, could have a dilutive effect on the ownership interest of our current shareholders and may adversely impact net income per share in future periods. An acquisition may be accretive or dilutive and, by its nature, involves numerous risks and uncertainties. As a result of acquisition efforts, if any, we are likely to experience significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses (whether or not the acquisitions are consummated) that may include transaction costs, closure costs or costs of restructuring activities.

We consider the undistributed earnings from the majority of our subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 to be indefinitely reinvested outside of Ireland and, accordingly, neither income tax nor withholding taxes have been provided thereon. As of December 31, 2019, indefinitely reinvested earnings were approximately $1,092.0 million. We do not anticipate incurring tax in deploying funds to satisfy liquidity needs arising in the ordinary course of business.

Indebtedness. The Company and/or certain of its subsidiaries are party to the Credit Agreement governing the Credit Facilities (as defined in Note 14. Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report) and the indentures governing our various senior secured and senior unsecured notes. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $3.3 billion was outstanding under the Term Loan Facility, approximately $0.3 billion was outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility and approximately $4.8 billion was outstanding under the senior secured and senior unsecured notes.

After giving effect to previous borrowings and issued and outstanding letters of credit, approximately $0.7 billion of remaining credit was available under the Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2019. The Company’s outstanding debt agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants, including certain limitations on the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness.

The Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our various notes contains certain covenants. As of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants. In addition, after each fiscal year-end, the Company is required to perform a calculation of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement), which could result in certain pre-payments of the principal relating to the Term Loan Facility in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. No such payment is required at December 31, 2019.

Refer to Note 14. Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional information about our indebtedness, including information about covenants, maturities, interest rates, security and priority.

65
Credit ratings. The Company’s corporate credit ratings assigned by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s are B3 with a stable outlook and B with a negative outlook, respectively. No report of any rating agency is being incorporated by reference herein.

Working capital. The components of our working capital and our liquidity at December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 are below (dollars in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net working capital increased by $732.9 million from December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2019. This increase primarily reflects the increase to cash of $300.0 million as a result of the June 2019 borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility and the favorable impact to net current assets resulting from operations during the year ended December 31, 2019. This activity was partially offset by certain items that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2019 including, but not limited to, the impact of adopting ASC 842, which resulted in a net decrease to working capital of approximately $10.7 million, purchases of property, plant and equipment, excluding capitalized interest, of $63.9 million and our incurrence of financing fees in connection with the March 2019 Refinancing Transactions.

The following table summarizes our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities represents the cash receipts and cash disbursements from all of our activities other than investing activities and financing activities. Changes in cash from operating activities reflect, among other things, the timing of cash collections from customers, payments to suppliers, MCOs, government agencies, collaborative partners and employees, as well as tax payments and refunds in the ordinary course of business.

The $169.2 million decrease in Net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 compared to the prior year was primarily due to our results of operations as described above and the timing of cash collections and cash payments related to our operations. Cash paid for interest increased by $44.5 million as a result of the timing and amounts of interest payments related to our indebtedness. Additionally, we increased inventory levels during the year ended December 31, 2019 in advance of certain recent and planned future product launches, which utilized cash. We expect that payments for previously accrued legal matters, which are further discussed in Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report will continue to impact our Net cash provided by operating activities in future periods.

Investing activities. The $42.3 million increase in Net cash used in investing activities in 2019 compared to the prior year reflects a decrease in Proceeds from sale of business and other assets, net of $63.8 million, offset in part by a decrease in Purchases of property, plant and equipment, excluding capitalized interest of $19.5 million.

Financing activities. During 2019, Net cash provided by financing activities related primarily to the $300.0 million June 2019 borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility. The proceeds from this transaction were offset by Repayments of term loans of $34.2 million, Payments for contingent consideration of $16.8 million, Payments of tax withholding for restricted shares of $10.2 million, Repayments of other indebtedness of $9.2 million and the net effect of the March 2019 Refinancing Transactions, which resulted in Proceeds from issuance of notes, net of $1,483.1 million, cash used for Repayments of notes totaling $1,500.0 million and Payments for debt issuance and extinguishment costs of $6.4 million.

During 2018, Net cash used in financing activities related primarily to Payments for contingent consideration of $37.8 million, Repayments of term loans of $34.2 million and Payments of tax withholding for restricted shares of $5.4 million.

R&D. Over the past few years, we have incurred significant expenditures related to conducting clinical studies to develop new products and expand the value of our existing products beyond their currently approved indications.

66
For example, as further described above under the heading “RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,” the Company has recently incurred R&D expense for certain indications of CCH in various stages of development.

We expect to incur R&D expenditures related to the development and advancement of our current product pipeline and any additional product candidates we may add via license, acquisition or organically. There can be no assurance that the results of any ongoing or future nonclinical or clinical trials related to these projects will be successful, that additional trials will not be required, that any compound, product or indication under development will receive regulatory approval in a timely manner or at all or that such compound, product or indication could be successfully manufactured in accordance with local current good manufacturing practices or marketed successfully, or that we will have sufficient funds to develop or commercialize any of our products.

Manufacturing, supply and other service agreements. We contract with various third party manufacturers, suppliers and service providers to supply our products, or materials used in the manufacturing of our products, and to provide additional services such as packaging, processing, labeling, warehousing, distribution and customer service support. Any interruption to the goods or services provided for by these and similar contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

License and collaboration agreements. We could become obligated to make certain contingent payments pursuant to our license, collaboration and other agreements. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon the achievement of certain developmental, regulatory, commercial and/or other milestones. Due to the fact that it is uncertain whether and when certain of these milestones will be achieved, they have not been recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, we may be required to make sales-based royalty or similar payments under certain arrangements.

Acquisitions. Going forward, our primary focus will be on organic growth. However, we may consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions of other businesses, products, product rights or technologies. Our cash reserves and other liquid assets may be inadequate to consummate such acquisitions and it may be necessary for us to issue ordinary shares or raise substantial additional funds in the future to complete future transactions. In addition, as a result of any acquisition efforts, we are likely to experience significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses (whether or not our efforts are successful) that may include transaction costs, closure costs, integration costs and/or costs of restructuring activities.

Legal proceedings. We are subject to various patent challenges, product liability claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. Contingent accruals are recorded when we determine that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Due to the fact that legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, our assessments involve significant judgments regarding future events. For additional discussion of legal proceedings, see Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report.

Contractual Obligations. The following table lists our enforceable and legally binding noncancelable obligations as of December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)These amounts represent future cash interest payments related to our indebtedness as of December 31, 2019 based on interest rates specified in the associated debt agreements. Payments related to variable-rate debt are based on applicable market rates, estimated at December 31, 2019, plus the specified margin in the associated debt agreements for each period presented.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4)Purchase obligations are enforceable and legally binding obligations for purchases of goods and services, including minimum inventory contracts.

67
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(6)Other obligations and commitments relate to any agreements to purchase third-party assets, products and services and other minimum royalty obligations.

(7)Total generally does not include contractual obligations already included in current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, except for amounts related to the current portion of long-term debt, accrued interest, current lease obligations, mesh-related product liabilities and certain purchase obligations, which are discussed below.

For purposes of the table above, obligations for the purchase of goods or services are included only for significant noncancelable purchase orders at least one year in length that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the timing of the obligation. In cases where our minimum obligations are variable based on future contingent events or circumstances, we estimate the minimum obligations based on information available to us at the time of disclosure. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are typically fulfilled by our suppliers within a relatively short period. At December 31, 2019, we have open purchase orders that represent authorizations to purchase, rather than binding agreements, that are not included in the table above. In addition, we do not include collaboration agreements and potential payments under those agreements or potential payments related to contingent consideration.

Information about our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is included in Note 20. Income Taxes in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report under the caption “Uncertain Tax Positions.” Due to the nature and timing of the ultimate outcome of these uncertain tax positions, we cannot make a reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments, if any. Therefore, our liability has been excluded from the above contractual obligations table.

Fluctuations. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate. These fluctuations may be due to the timing of new product launches, purchasing patterns of our customers, market acceptance of our products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, certain actions taken by us which may impact the availability of our products, asset impairment charges, litigation-related charges, restructuring costs including separation benefits, business combination transaction costs, the impact of financing transactions, upfront, milestone and certain other payments made or accrued pursuant to licensing agreements and changes in the fair value of financial instruments and contingent assets and liabilities recorded as part of business combinations. Further, a substantial portion of our total revenues are through three wholesale drug distributors who in turn supply our products to pharmacies, hospitals and physicians. Accordingly, we are potentially subject to a concentration of credit risk with respect to our trade receivables.

Growth opportunities. We continue to evaluate growth opportunities including investments, licensing arrangements, acquisitions of product rights or technologies, businesses and strategic alliances and promotional arrangements, any of which could require significant capital resources. We continue to focus our business development activities on further diversifying our revenue base through product licensing and company acquisitions, as well as other opportunities to enhance shareholder value. Through execution of our business strategy, we focus on developing new products both internally and with contract and collaborative partners; expanding our product lines by acquiring new products and technologies, increasing revenues and earnings through sales and marketing programs for our innovative product offerings and effectively using our resources; and providing additional resources to support our businesses.

Non-U.S. operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates resulted in a net loss of $5.2 million in 2019 and a net gain of $3.8 million in 2018.

Inflation. We do not believe that inflation had a material adverse effect on our financial statements for the periods presented.

Off-balance sheet arrangements. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk