PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Companies

FE was incorporated under Ohio law in 1996. FE’s principal business is the holding, directly or indirectly, of all of the outstanding equity of its principal subsidiaries: OE, CEI, TE, Penn (a wholly owned subsidiary of OE), JCP&L, ME, PN, FESC, AE Supply, MP, AGC, PE, WP, and FET and its principal subsidiaries (ATSI, MAIT and TrAIL). In addition, FE holds all of the outstanding equity of other direct subsidiaries including: AESC, FirstEnergy Properties, Inc., FEV, FELHC, Inc., GPUN, Allegheny Ventures, Inc., and Suvon, LLC doing business as both FirstEnergy Home and FirstEnergy Advisors.

FE and its subsidiaries are principally involved in the transmission, distribution and generation of electricity. FirstEnergy’s ten utility operating companies comprise one of the nation’s largest investor-owned electric systems, based on serving over six million customers in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions. FirstEnergy’s transmission operations include approximately 24,500 miles of lines and two regional transmission operation centers. AGC, JCP&L and MP control 3,790 MWs of total capacity.

FirstEnergy’s revenues are primarily derived from electric service provided by the Utilities and Transmission Companies.

Regulated Utility Operating Subsidiaries

The Utilities’ combined service areas encompass approximately 65,000 square miles in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York. The areas they serve have a combined population of approximately 13.3 million.

OE was organized under Ohio law in 1930 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. OE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy to communities in a 7,000 square mile area of central and northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 2.3 million.

OE owns all of Penn’s outstanding common stock. Penn was organized under Pennsylvania law in 1930 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. Penn is also authorized to do business in Ohio. Penn furnishes electric service to communities in 1,100 square miles of western Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.4 million.

CEI was organized under Ohio law in 1892 and does business as an electric public utility in that state. CEI engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy in an area of 1,600 square miles in northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.6 million.

TE was organized under Ohio law in 1901 and does business as an electric public utility in that state. TE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy in an area of 2,300 square miles in northwestern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.7 million.

JCP&L was organized under New Jersey law in 1925 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. JCP&L provides transmission and distribution services in 3,200 square miles of northern, western and east central New Jersey. The area it serves has a population of approximately 2.7 million. JCP&L also has a 50% ownership interest (210 MWs) in the Yard's Creek hydroelectric generating facility.

ME was organized under Pennsylvania law in 1917 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. ME provides distribution services in 3,300 square miles of eastern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.2 million.

PN was organized under Pennsylvania law in 1919 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. PN provides distribution services in 17,600 square miles of western, northern and south central Pennsylvania. Also, PN, as lessee of the property of its subsidiary, The Waverly Electric Light & Power Company, serves approximately 4,000 customers in the Waverly, New York vicinity. The area PN serves has a population of approximately 1.2 million.

PE was organized under Maryland law in 1923 and under Virginia law in 1974. PE is authorized to do business in Virginia, West Virginia and Maryland. PE owns property and does business as an electric public utility in those states. PE provides transmission and distribution services in portions of Maryland and West Virginia and provides transmission services in Virginia in an area totaling approximately 5,500 square miles. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.9 million.

MP was organized under Ohio law in 1924 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in the state of West Virginia. MP provides generation, transmission and distribution services in 13,000 square miles of northern West Virginia. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.8 million. MP is contractually obligated to provide power to PE to meet its load obligations in West Virginia. MP owns or contractually controls 3,580 MWs of generation capacity that is supplied to its electric utility business, including a 16.25% undivided interest in the Bath County, Virginia pumped-storage hydroelectric generation facility (487 MWs) through AGC, which was organized under Virginia law in 1981 and became a wholly owned subsidiary of MP in May 2018.

1

WP was organized under Pennsylvania law in 1916 and owns property and does business as an electric public utility in that state. WP provides transmission and distribution services in 10,400 square miles of southwestern, south-central and northern Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.5 million.

Regulated Transmission Operating Subsidiaries

ATSI was organized under Ohio law in 1998. ATSI owns high-voltage transmission facilities, which consist of approximately 7,890 circuit miles of transmission lines with nominal voltages of 345 kV, 138 kV and 69 kV in the PJM Region.

TrAIL was organized under Maryland law and Virginia law in 2006. TrAIL was formed to finance, construct, own, operate and maintain high-voltage transmission facilities in the PJM Region and has several transmission facilities in operation, including a 500 kV transmission line extending approximately 150 miles from southwestern Pennsylvania through West Virginia to a point of interconnection with VEPCO in northern Virginia. 

MAIT was organized under Delaware law in 2015. MAIT owns high-voltage transmission facilities, which consist of approximately 4,260 circuit miles of transmission lines with nominal voltages of 500 kV, 345 kV, 230 kV, 138 kV, 115 kV, 69 kV and 46 kV in the PJM Region.

Service Company

FESC provides legal, financial and other corporate support services at cost, in accordance with its cost allocation manual, to affiliated FirstEnergy companies. In addition, pursuant to the FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement discussed below, FE will extend the availability of shared services to the FES Debtors until no later than June 30, 2020, subject to reductions in services if requested by the FES Debtors.

Legacy CES Subsidiaries 

On March 31, 2018, the FES Debtors announced that, in order to facilitate an orderly financial restructuring, they filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code with the Bankruptcy Court. As a result of the bankruptcy filings, FirstEnergy concluded that it no longer had a controlling interest in the FES Debtors as the entities are subject to the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and, accordingly, as of March 31, 2018, the FES Debtors were deconsolidated from FirstEnergy’s consolidated financial statements. Since such time, FE has accounted and will account for its investments in the FES Debtors at fair values of zero. FE concluded that in connection with the disposal, the FES Debtors became discontinued operations.

AE Supply was organized under Delaware law in 1999. AE Supply previously provided energy-related products and services primarily to wholesale customers. As part of the FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement, discussed below, AE Supply transferred the Pleasants Power Station and related assets to a newly formed subsidiary of FG on January 30, 2020. AE Supply will continue to provide Pleasants Power Station disposal access to the McElroy's Run Impoundment Facility pursuant to a separate agreement among the parties.

Substantially all of FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries’ operations that previously comprised the CES reportable operating segment, including FES, FENOC, BSPC and a portion of AE Supply (including the Pleasants Power Station), are presented as discontinued operations in FirstEnergy’s consolidated financial statements resulting from the FES Bankruptcy and actions taken as part of the strategic review to exit commodity-exposed generation. 

Operating Segments

FirstEnergy's reportable operating segments are comprised of the Regulated Distribution and Regulated Transmission segments.

The Regulated Distribution segment distributes electricity through FirstEnergy’s ten utility operating companies, serving approximately six million customers within 65,000 square miles of Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York, and purchases power for its POLR, SOS, SSO and default service requirements in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland. This segment also controls 3,790 MWs of regulated electric generation capacity located primarily in West Virginia, Virginia and New Jersey. The segment's results reflect the costs of securing and delivering electric generation from transmission facilities to customers, including the deferral and amortization of certain related costs.

As of December 31, 2019, FirstEnergy’s regulated generating portfolio consists of 3,790 MWs of diversified capacity within the Regulated Distribution segment: 210 MWs consist of JCP&L's 50% ownership interest in the Yard's Creek hydroelectric facility in New Jersey; and 3,580 MWs consist of MP's facilities, including 487 MWs from AGC's interest in the Bath County hydroelectric facility in Virginia that MP partially owns, and 11 MWs of MP's 0.49% entitlement from OVEC's generation output. MP's other generation facilities are located in West Virginia.

The Regulated Transmission segment provides transmission infrastructure owned and operated by the Transmission Companies and certain of FirstEnergy's utilities (JCP&L, MP, PE and WP) to transmit electricity from generation sources to distribution facilities. 

2

The segment's revenues are primarily derived from forward-looking formula rates at the Transmission Companies as well as stated transmission rates at JCP&L, MP, PE and WP. Effective January 1, 2020, JPC&L's transmission rates became forward-looking formula rates, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement proceedings. Both the forward-looking formula and stated rates recover costs that the regulatory agencies determine are permitted to be recovered and provide a return on transmission capital investment. Under forward-looking formula rates, the revenue requirement is updated annually based on a projected rate base and projected costs, which is subject to an annual true-up based on actual costs. The segment's results also reflect the net transmission expenses related to the delivery of electricity on FirstEnergy's transmission facilities.

Corporate/Other reflects corporate support not charged to FE's subsidiaries, interest expense on FE’s holding company debt and other businesses that do not constitute an operating segment. Additionally, reconciling adjustments for the elimination of inter-segment transactions and discontinued operations are included in Corporate/Other. As of December 31, 2019, 67 MWs of electric generating capacity, representing AE Supply's OVEC capacity entitlement, was included in continuing operations of Corporate/Other. As of December 31, 2019, Corporate/Other had approximately $7.1 billion of FE holding company debt. 

Utility Regulation

Regulatory Accounting 

FirstEnergy accounts for the effects of regulation through the application of regulatory accounting to the Utilities and the Transmission Companies since their rates are established by a third-party regulator with the authority to set rates that bind customers, are cost-based and can be charged to and collected from customers.

The Utilities and the Transmission Companies recognize, as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities, costs which FERC and the various state utility commissions, as applicable, have authorized for recovery from/return to customers in future periods or for which authorization is probable. Without the probability of such authorization, costs currently recorded as regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities would have been charged/credited to income as incurred. All regulatory assets and liabilities are expected to be recovered from/returned to customers. Based on current ratemaking procedures, the Utilities and the Transmission Companies continue to collect cost-based rates for their transmission and distribution services; accordingly, it is appropriate that the Utilities and the Transmission Companies continue the application of regulatory accounting to those operations. Regulatory accounting is applied only to the parts of the business that meet the above criteria. If a portion of the business applying regulatory accounting no longer meets those requirements, previously recorded regulatory assets and liabilities are removed from the balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.

State Regulation

Each of the Utilities' retail rates, conditions of service, issuance of securities and other matters are subject to regulation in the states in which it operates - in Maryland by the MDPSC, in New Jersey by the NJBPU, in Ohio by the PUCO, in Pennsylvania by the PPUC, in West Virginia by the WVPSC and in New York by the NYPSC. The transmission operations of PE in Virginia are subject to certain regulations of the VSCC. In addition, under Ohio law, municipalities may regulate rates of a public utility, subject to appeal to the PUCO if not acceptable to the utility. Further, if any of the FirstEnergy affiliates were to engage in the construction of significant new transmission facilities, depending on the state, they may be required to obtain state regulatory authorization to site, construct and operate the new transmission facility. 

The following table summarizes the key terms of base distribution rate orders in effect for the Utilities as of December 31, 2019: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Reflects filed debt/equity as final settlement/orders do not specifically include capital structure. 

(2) Commission-approved settlement agreements did not disclose ROE rates. 

3

Federal Regulation

With respect to wholesale services and rates, the Utilities, AE Supply, and the Transmission Companies are subject to regulation by FERC. Under the FPA, FERC regulates rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate wholesale sales, transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. FERC regulations require JCP&L, MP, PE, WP and the Transmission Companies to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates, terms and conditions. Transmission facilities of JCP&L, MP, PE, WP and the Transmission Companies are subject to functional control by PJM and transmission service using their transmission facilities is provided by PJM under the PJM Tariff. See "FERC Regulatory Matters" below. 

The following table summarizes the key terms of rate orders in effect for transmission customer billings for FirstEnergy's transmission owner entities as of December 31, 2019: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Effective on January 1, 2020, JCP&L has implemented a forward-looking formula rate, which has been accepted by FERC, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement proceedings. 

(2) See FERC Actions on Tax Act below. 

(3) FERC-approved settlement agreements did not specify. 

Federally-enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk electric system and impose certain operating, record-keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, AE Supply, and the Transmission Companies. NERC is the ERO designated by FERC to establish and enforce these reliability standards, although NERC has delegated day-to-day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards to six regional entities, including RFC. All of the facilities that FirstEnergy operates are located within the RFC region. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and RFC stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by RFC.  

FirstEnergy believes that it is in material compliance with all currently-effective and enforceable reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such occurrences are found, FirstEnergy develops information about the occurrence and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases “self-reporting” an occurrence to RFC. Moreover, it is clear that NERC, RFC and FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards. Any inability on FirstEnergy's part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk electric system could result in the imposition of financial penalties, or obligations to upgrade or build transmission facilities, that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Maryland Regulatory Matters 

PE operates under MDPSC approved base rates that were effective as of March 23, 2019. PE also provides SOS pursuant to a combination of settlement agreements, MDPSC orders and regulations, and statutory provisions. SOS supply is competitively procured in the form of rolling contracts of varying lengths through periodic auctions that are overseen by the MDPSC and a third-party monitor. Although settlements with respect to SOS supply for PE customers have expired, service continues in the same manner until changed by order of the MDPSC. PE recovers its costs plus a return for providing SOS. 

The EmPOWER Maryland program requires each electric utility to file a plan to reduce electric consumption and demand 0.2% per year, up to the ultimate goal of 2% annual savings, for the duration of the 2018-2020 and 2021-2023 EmPOWER Maryland program cycles, to the extent the MDPSC determines that cost-effective programs and services are available. PE's approved 2018-2020 EmPOWER Maryland plan continues and expands upon prior years' programs, and adds new programs, for a projected total cost of $116 million over the three-year period. PE recovers program costs subject to a five-year amortization. Maryland law only allows for the utility to recover lost distribution revenue attributable to energy efficiency or demand reduction programs through a base rate case proceeding, and to date, such recovery has not been sought or obtained by PE. 

4

On January 19, 2018, PE filed a joint petition along with other utility companies, work group stakeholders and the MDPSC electric vehicle work group leader to implement a statewide electric vehicle portfolio in connection with a 2016 MDPSC proceeding to consider an array of issues relating to electric distribution system design, including matters relating to electric vehicles, distributed energy resources, advanced metering infrastructure, energy storage, system planning, rate design, and impacts on low-income customers. PE proposed an electric vehicle charging infrastructure program at a projected total cost of $12 million, to be recovered over a five-year amortization. On January 14, 2019, the MDPSC approved the petition subject to certain reductions in the scope of the program. The MDPSC approved PE’s compliance filing, which implements the pilot program, with minor modifications, on July 3, 2019. 

On August 24, 2018, PE filed a base rate case with the MDPSC, which it supplemented on October 22, 2018, to update the partially forecasted test year with a full twelve months of actual data. The rate case requested an annual increase in base distribution rates of $19.7 million, plus creation of an EDIS to fund four enhanced service reliability programs. In responding to discovery, PE revised its request for an annual increase in base rates to $17.6 million. The proposed rate increase reflected $7.3 million in annual savings for customers resulting from the recent federal tax law changes. On March 22, 2019, the MDPSC issued a final order that approved a rate increase of $6.2 million, approved three of the four EDIS programs for four years, directed PE to file a new depreciation study within 18 months, and ordered the filing of a new base rate case in four years to correspond to the ending of the approved EDIS programs. 

New Jersey Regulatory Matters 

JCP&L operates under NJBPU approved rates that were effective as of January 1, 2017. JCP&L provides BGS for retail customers who do not choose a third-party EGS and for customers of third-party EGSs that fail to provide the contracted service. All New Jersey EDCs participate in this competitive BGS procurement process and recover BGS costs directly from customers as a charge separate from base rates. 

On April 18, 2019, pursuant to the May 2018 New Jersey enacted legislation establishing a ZEC program to provide ratepayer funded subsidies of New Jersey nuclear energy supply, the NJBPU approved the implementation of a non-bypassable, irrevocable ZEC charge for all New Jersey electric utility customers, including JCP&L’s customers. Once collected from customers by JCP&L, these funds will be remitted to eligible nuclear energy generators. 

In December 2017, the NJBPU issued proposed rules to modify its current CTA policy in base rate cases to: (i) calculate savings using a five-year look back from the beginning of the test year; (ii) allocate savings with 75% retained by the company and 25% allocated to ratepayers; and (iii) exclude transmission assets of electric distribution companies in the savings calculation, which were published in the NJ Register in the first quarter of 2018. JCP&L filed comments supporting the proposed rulemaking. On January 17, 2019, the NJBPU approved the proposed CTA rules with no changes. On May 17, 2019, the Rate Counsel filed an appeal with the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey. JCP&L is contesting this appeal but is unable to predict the outcome of this matter. 

Also in December 2017, the NJBPU approved its IIP rulemaking. The IIP creates a financial incentive for utilities to accelerate the level of investment needed to promote the timely rehabilitation and replacement of certain non-revenue producing components that enhance reliability, resiliency, and/or safety. On July 13, 2018, JCP&L filed an infrastructure plan, JCP&L Reliability Plus, which proposed to accelerate $386.8 million of electric distribution infrastructure investment over four years to enhance the reliability and resiliency of its distribution system and reduce the frequency and duration of power outages. On April 23, 2019, JCP&L filed a Stipulation of Settlement with the NJBPU on behalf of the JCP&L, Rate Counsel, NJBPU Staff and New Jersey Large Energy Users Coalition, which provides that JCP&L will invest up to approximately $97 million in capital investments beginning on June 1, 2019 through December 31, 2020. JCP&L shall seek recovery of the capital investment through an accelerated cost recovery mechanism, provided for in the rules, that includes a revenue adjustment calculation and a process for two rate adjustments. On May 8, 2019, the NJBPU issued an order approving the Stipulation of Settlement without modifications. Pursuant to the Stipulation, JCP&L filed a petition on September 16, 2019, to seek approval of rate adjustments to provide for cost recovery established with JCP&L Reliability Plus. 

On January 31, 2018, the NJBPU instituted a proceeding to examine the impacts of the Tax Act on the rates and charges of New Jersey utilities. The NJBPU ordered New Jersey utilities to: (1) defer on their books the impacts of the Tax Act effective January 1, 2018; (2) to file tariffs effective April 1, 2018, reflecting the rate impacts of changes in current taxes; and (3) to file tariffs effective July 1, 2018, reflecting the rate impacts of changes in deferred taxes. On March 2, 2018, JCP&L filed a petition with the NJBPU, which included proposed tariffs for a base rate reduction of $28.6 million effective April 1, 2018, and a rider to reflect $1.3 million in rate impacts of changes in deferred taxes. On March 26, 2018, the NJBPU approved JCP&L’s rate reduction effective April 1, 2018, on an interim basis subject to refund, pending the outcome of this proceeding. On April 23, 2019, JCP&L filed a Stipulation of Settlement on behalf of the Rate Counsel, NJBPU Staff, and the New Jersey Large Energy Users Coalition with the NJBPU. The terms of the Stipulation of Settlement provide that between January 1, 2018 and March 31, 2018, JCP&L’s refund obligation is estimated to be approximately $7 million, which was refunded to customers in 2019. The Stipulation of Settlement also provides for a base rate reduction of $28.6 million, which was reflected in rates on April 1, 2018, and a Rider Tax Act Adjustment for certain items over a five-year period. On May 8, 2019, the NJBPU issued an order approving the Stipulation of Settlement without modification.

5

JCP&L expects to file a distribution base rate case in New Jersey in February 2020, which will seek to recover certain costs associated with providing safe and reliable electric service to JCP&L customers, along with recovery of previously incurred storm costs. 

Ohio Regulatory Matters 

The Ohio Companies operate under base distribution rates approved by the PUCO effective in 2009. The Ohio Companies’ residential and commercial base distribution revenues are decoupled, through a mechanism that took effect on February 1, 2020, to the base distribution revenue and lost distribution revenue associated with energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs recovered as of the twelve-month period ending on December 31, 2018. The Ohio Companies currently operate under ESP IV effective June 1, 2016, and continuing through May 31, 2024, that continues the supply of power to non-shopping customers at a market-based price set through an auction process. ESP IV also continues Rider DCR, which supports continued investment related to the distribution system for the benefit of customers, with increased revenue caps of $20 million per year from June 1, 2019 through May 31, 2022; and $15 million per year from June 1, 2022 through May 31, 2024. In addition, ESP IV includes: (1) continuation of a base distribution rate freeze through May 31, 2024; (2) the collection of lost distribution revenues associated with energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs; (3) a goal across FirstEnergy to reduce CO2 emissions by 90% below 2005 levels by 2045; and (4) contributions, totaling $51 million to: (a) fund energy conservation programs, economic development and job retention in the Ohio Companies’ service territories; (b) establish a fuel-fund in each of the Ohio Companies’ service territories to assist low-income customers; and (c) establish a Customer Advisory Council to ensure preservation and growth of the competitive market in Ohio. 

ESP IV further provided for the Ohio Companies to collect through Rider DMR $132.5 million annually for three years beginning in 2017, grossed up for federal income taxes, resulting in an approved amount of approximately $168 million annually in 2018 and 2019. Revenues from Rider DMR are excluded from the significantly excessive earnings test. On appeal, the SCOH, on June 19, 2019, reversed the PUCO’s determination that Rider DMR is lawful, and remanded the matter to the PUCO with instructions to remove Rider DMR from ESP IV. On August 20, 2019, the SCOH denied the Ohio Companies’ motion for reconsideration. The PUCO entered an Order directing the Ohio Companies to cease further collection through Rider DMR, credit back to customers a refund of Rider DMR funds collected since July 2, 2019, and remove Rider DMR from ESP IV. On October 1, 2019, the Ohio Companies implemented PUCO approved tariffs to refund approximately $28 million to customers, including Rider DMR revenues billed from July 2, 2019 through August 31, 2019. 

On July 15, 2019, OCC filed a Notice of Appeal with the SCOH, challenging the PUCO’s exclusion of Rider DMR revenues from the determination of the existence of significantly excessive earnings under ESP IV for calendar year 2017 and claiming a $42 million refund is due to OE customers. The Ohio Companies are contesting this appeal but are unable to predict the outcome of this matter. 

Under Ohio law, the Ohio Companies are required to implement energy efficiency programs that achieve certain annual energy savings and total peak demand reductions. The Ohio Companies’ 2017-2019 plan includes a portfolio of energy efficiency programs targeted to a variety of customer segments. The Ohio Companies anticipate the cost of the plan will be approximately $268 million over the life of the plan and such costs are expected to be recovered through the Ohio Companies’ existing rate mechanisms. On November 21, 2017, the PUCO issued an order that approved the proposed plan with several modifications, including a cap on the Ohio Companies’ collection of program costs and shared savings set at 4% of the Ohio Companies’ total sales to customers. On October 15, 2019, the SCOH reversed the PUCO’s decision to impose the 4% cost-recovery cap and remanded the matter to the PUCO for approval of the portfolio plans without the cost-recovery cap. 

On July 23, 2019, Ohio enacted legislation establishing support for nuclear energy supply in Ohio. In addition to the provisions supporting nuclear energy, the legislation included a provision implementing a decoupling mechanism for Ohio electric utilities. The legislation also is ending current energy efficiency program mandates on December 31, 2020, provided statewide energy efficiency mandates are achieved as determined by the PUCO. On October 23, 2019, the PUCO solicited comments on whether the PUCO should terminate the energy efficiency programs once the statewide energy efficiency mandates are achieved. Opponents to the legislation sought to submit it to a statewide referendum, and stay its effect unless and until approved by a majority of Ohio voters. Petitioners filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio seeking additional time to gather signatures in support of a referendum. Petitioners failed to file the necessary number of petition signatures, and the legislation took effect on October 22, 2019. On October 23, 2019, the U.S. District Court denied petitioners’ request for more time, and certified questions of state law to the SCOH to answer. Petitioners appealed the U.S. District Court’s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The Petitioners ended their challenge to the legislation voluntarily at the end of January 2020 causing the dismissal of the appeal, the lawsuit before the U.S District Court, and the proceedings before the SCOH. 

On November 21, 2019, the Ohio Companies applied to the PUCO for approval of a decoupling mechanism, which would set residential and commercial base distribution related revenues at the levels collected in 2018. As such, those base distribution revenues would no longer be based on electric consumption, which allows continued support of energy efficiency initiatives while also providing revenue certainty to the Ohio Companies. On January 15, 2020, the PUCO approved the Ohio Companies’ decoupling application, and the decoupling mechanism took effect on February 1, 2020. 

6

In February 2016, the Ohio Companies filed a Grid Modernization Business Plan for PUCO consideration and approval, as required by the terms of ESP IV. On December 1, 2017, the Ohio Companies filed an application with the PUCO for approval of a DPM Plan, a portfolio distribution platform investment projects, which are designed to modernize the Ohio Companies’ distribution grid, prepare it for further grid modernization projects, and provide customers with immediate reliability benefits. Also, on January 10, 2018, the PUCO opened a case to consider the impacts of the Tax Act on Ohio utilities’ rates and determine the appropriate course of action to pass benefits on to customers. On November 9, 2018, the Ohio Companies filed a settlement agreement that provides for the implementation of the first phase of grid modernization plans, including the investment of $516 million over three years to modernize the Ohio Companies’ electric distribution system, and for all tax savings associated with the Tax Act to flow back to customers. As part of the agreement, the Ohio Companies also filed an application for approval of a rider to return the remaining tax savings to customers following PUCO approval of the settlement. On January 25, 2019, the Ohio Companies filed a supplemental settlement agreement that keeps intact the provisions of the settlement described above and adds further customer benefits and protections, which broadened support for the settlement. The settlement had broad support, including PUCO Staff, the OCC, representatives of industrial and commercial customers, a low-income advocate, environmental advocates, hospitals, competitive generation suppliers and other parties. On July 17, 2019, the PUCO approved the settlement agreement with no material modifications. On September 11, 2019, the PUCO denied the application for rehearing of environmental advocates who were not parties to the settlement. 

The Ohio Companies’ Rider NMB is designed to recover NMB transmission-related costs imposed on or charged to the Ohio Companies by FERC or PJM. On December 14, 2018, the Ohio Companies filed an application for a review of their 2019 Rider NMB, including recovery of future Legacy RTEP costs and previously absorbed Legacy RTEP costs, net of refunds received from PJM. On February 27, 2018, the PUCO issued an order directing the Ohio Companies to file revised final tariffs recovering Legacy RTEP costs incurred since May 31, 2018, but excluding recovery of approximately $95 million in Legacy RTEP costs incurred prior to May 31, 2018, net of refunds received from PJM. The PUCO solicited comments on whether the Ohio Companies should be permitted to recover the Legacy RTEP charges incurred prior to May 31, 2018. On October 9, 2019, the PUCO approved the recovery of the $95 million of previously excluded Legacy RTEP charges.

Pennsylvania Regulatory Matters

The Pennsylvania Companies operate under rates approved by the PPUC, effective as of January 27, 2017. These rates were adjusted for the net impact of the Tax Act, effective March 15, 2018. The net impact of the Tax Act for the period January 1, 2018 through March 14, 2018 must also be separately tracked for treatment in a future rate proceeding. The Pennsylvania Companies operate under DSPs for the June 1, 2019 through May 31, 2023 delivery period, which provide for the competitive procurement of generation supply for customers who do not choose an alternative EGS or for customers of alternative EGSs that fail to provide the contracted service. 

Under the 2019-2023 DSPs, supply will be provided by wholesale suppliers through a mix of 3, 12 and 24-month energy contracts, as well as two RFPs for 2-year SREC contracts for ME, PN and Penn. The 2019-2023 DSPs also include modifications to the Pennsylvania Companies’ POR programs in order to continue their clawback pilot program as a long-term, permanent program term, modifications to the Pennsylvania Companies’ customer class definitions to allow for the introduction of hourly priced default service to customers at or above 100kW, customer assistance program shopping limitations, and script modifications related to the Pennsylvania Companies' customer referral programs.  

Pursuant to Pennsylvania Act 129 of 2008 and PPUC orders, Pennsylvania EDCs implement energy efficiency and peak demand reduction programs. The Pennsylvania Companies’ Phase III EE&C plans for the June 2016 through May 2021 period, which were approved in March 2016, with expected costs up to $390 million, are designed to achieve the targets established in the PPUC’s Phase III Final Implementation Order with full recovery through the reconcilable EE&C riders. 

Pennsylvania EDCs may establish a DSIC to recover costs of infrastructure improvements and costs related to highway relocation projects with PPUC approval. LTIIPs outlining infrastructure improvement plans for PPUC review and approval must be filed prior to approval of a DSIC. The PPUC approved modified LTIIPs for ME, PN and Penn for the remaining years of 2017 through 2020 to provide additional support for reliability and infrastructure investments. Following a periodic review of the LTIIPs in 2018 as required by regulation once every five years, the PPUC entered an Order concluding that the Pennsylvania Companies have substantially adhered to the schedules and expenditures outlined in their LTIIPs, but that changes to the LTIIPs as designed are necessary to maintain and improve reliability and directed the Pennsylvania Companies to file modified or new LTIIPs. On May 23, 2019, the PPUC approved the Pennsylvania Companies’ Modified LTIIPs that revised LTIIP spending in 2019 of approximately $45 million by ME, $25 million by PN, $26 million by Penn and $51 million by WP, and terminating at the end of 2019. On August 30, 2019, the Pennsylvania Companies filed Petitions for approval of proposed LTIIPs for the five-year period beginning January 1, 2020 and ending December 31, 2024 for a total capital investment of approximately $572 million for certain infrastructure improvement initiatives. On January 16, 2020, the PPUC approved the LTIIPs without modification, as well as directed the Pennsylvania Companies to submit corrective action plans by March 16, 2020, which outline how they will reduce their pole replacement backlogs over a five-year period to a rolling two-year backlog. 

The Pennsylvania Companies’ approved DSIC riders for quarterly cost recovery went into effect July 1, 2016, subject to hearings and refund or reallocation among customer classes. In the January 19, 2017 order approving the Pennsylvania Companies’ general rate cases, the PPUC added an additional issue to the DSIC proceeding to include whether ADIT should be included in DSIC 

7

calculations. The parties to the DSIC proceeding submitted a Joint Settlement that resolved the issues that were pending from the order issued on June 9, 2016, and the PPUC approved the Joint Settlement without modification and reversed the ALJ’s previous decision that would have required the Pennsylvania Companies to reflect all federal and state income tax deductions related to DSIC-eligible property in currently effective DSIC rates. The Pennsylvania OCA filed an appeal with the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court of the PPUC’s decision, and the Pennsylvania Companies contested the appeal. The Commonwealth Court reversed the PPUC’s decision of April 19, 2018 and remanded the matter to the PPUC to require the Pennsylvania Companies to revise their tariffs and DSIC calculations to include ADIT and state income taxes. The Commonwealth Court denied Applications for Reargument in the Court’s July 11, 2019 Opinion and Order filed by the PPUC and the Pennsylvania Companies. On October 7, 2019, the PPUC and the Pennsylvania Companies filed separate Petitions for Allowance of Appeal of the Commonwealth Court’s Opinion and Order to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court.  

On August 30, 2019, Penn filed a Petition seeking approval of a waiver of the statutory DSIC cap of 5% of distribution rate revenue and approval to increase the maximum allowable DSIC to 11.81% of distribution rate revenue for the five-year period of its proposed LTIIP. The Pennsylvania Office of Small Business Advocate, the PPUC’s Bureau of Investigation, and the Pennsylvania OCA opposed Penn’s Petition. On January 17, 2020, the parties filed a petition seeking approval of settlement that provides for a temporary increase in the recoverability cap from 5% to 7.5%, which will expire on the earlier of the effective date of new base rates following Penn’s next base rate case or the expiration of its LTIIP II program. The settlement is subject to PPUC approval. 

West Virginia Regulatory Matters

MP and PE provide electric service to all customers through traditional cost-based, regulated utility ratemaking and operates under rates approved by the WVPSC effective February 2015. MP and PE recover net power supply costs, including fuel costs, purchased power costs and related expenses, net of related market sales revenue through the ENEC. MP's and PE's ENEC rate is updated annually.

On August 21, 2019, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC their annual ENEC case requesting a decrease in ENEC rates of $6.1 million beginning January 1, 2020, representing a 0.4% decrease in rates versus those in effect on August 21, 2019. On October 11, 2019, MP and PE filed a supplement requesting approval of the termination of the 50 MW PPA with Morgantown Energy Associates, a NUG entity. A settlement between MP, PE, and the majority of the intervenors fully resolving the ENEC case, which maintains 2019 ENEC rates into 2020, and supports the termination of the Morgantown Energy Associates PPA, was filed with the WVPSC on October 18, 2019. An order was issued on December 20, 2019, approving the ENEC settlement and termination of the PPA with Morgantown Energy Associates. 

On August 21, 2019, MP and PE filed with the WVPSC for a reconciliation of their VMS and a periodic review of its vegetation management program requesting an increase in VMS rates of $7.6 million beginning January 1, 2020. The increase is due to moving from a 5-year maintenance cycle to a 4-year cycle and performing more operation and maintenance work and less capital work on the rights of way. The increase is a 0.5% increase in rates versus those in effect on August 21, 2019. All the parties reached a settlement in the case, and the WVPSC issued its order approving the settlement without change on December 20, 2019. 

FERC Regulatory Matters

Under the FPA, FERC regulates rates for interstate wholesale sales, transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. With respect to their wholesale services and rates, the Utilities, AE Supply and the Transmission Companies are subject to regulation by FERC. FERC regulations require JCP&L, MP, PE, WP and the Transmission Companies to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates, terms and conditions. Transmission facilities of JCP&L, MP, PE, WP and the Transmission Companies are subject to functional control by PJM and transmission service using their transmission facilities is provided by PJM under the PJM Tariff. 

FERC regulates the sale of power for resale in interstate commerce in part by granting authority to public utilities to sell wholesale power at market-based rates upon showing that the seller cannot exert market power in generation or transmission or erect barriers to entry into markets. The Utilities and AE Supply each have been authorized by FERC to sell wholesale power in interstate commerce at market-based rates and have a market-based rate tariff on file with FERC, although major wholesale purchases remain subject to regulation by the relevant state commissions. 

Federally-enforceable mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk electric system and impose certain operating, record-keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, AE Supply, and the Transmission Companies. NERC is the ERO designated by FERC to establish and enforce these reliability standards, although NERC has delegated day-to-day implementation and enforcement of these reliability standards to six regional entities, including RFC. All of the facilities that FirstEnergy operates are located within the RFC region. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and RFC stakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards implemented and enforced by RFC.  

FirstEnergy believes that it is in material compliance with all currently-effective and enforceable reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility systems and facilities, FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such occurrences are found, 

8

FirstEnergy develops information about the occurrence and develops a remedial response to the specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases “self-reporting” an occurrence to RFC. Moreover, it is clear that NERC, RFC and FERC will continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards. Any inability on FirstEnergy's part to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk electric system could result in the imposition of financial penalties, or obligations to upgrade or build transmission facilities, that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

RTO Realignment

On June 1, 2011, ATSI and the ATSI zone transferred from MISO to PJM. While many of the matters involved with the move have been resolved, FERC denied recovery under ATSI's transmission rate for certain charges that collectively can be described as "exit fees" and certain other transmission cost allocation charges totaling approximately $78.8 million until such time as ATSI submits a cost/benefit analysis demonstrating net benefits to customers from the transfer to PJM. Subsequently, FERC rejected a proposed settlement agreement to resolve the exit fee and transmission cost allocation issues, stating that its action is without prejudice to ATSI submitting a cost/benefit analysis demonstrating that the benefits of the RTO realignment decisions outweigh the exit fee and transmission cost allocation charges. In a subsequent order, FERC affirmed its prior ruling that ATSI must submit the cost/benefit analysis. ATSI is evaluating the cost/benefit approach. 

FERC Actions on Tax Act  

On March 15, 2018, FERC initiated proceedings on the question of how to address possible changes to ADIT and bonus depreciation as a result of the Tax Act. Such possible changes could impact FERC-jurisdictional rates, including transmission rates. On November 21, 2019, FERC issued a final rule (Order 864). Order 864 requires utilities with transmission formula rates to update their formula rate templates to include mechanisms to (i) deduct any excess ADIT from or add any deficient ADIT to their rate base; (ii) raise or lower their income tax allowances by any amortized excess or deficient ADIT; and (iii) incorporate a new permanent worksheet into their rates that will annually track information related to excess or deficient ADIT. Alternatively, formula rate utilities can demonstrate to FERC that their formula rate template already achieves these outcomes. Utilities with transmission stated rates are required to address these new requirements as part of their next transmission rate case. To assist with implementation of the proposed rule, FERC also issued on November 15, 2018, a policy statement providing accounting and ratemaking guidance for treatment of ADIT for all FERC-jurisdictional public utilities. The policy statement also addresses the accounting and ratemaking treatment of ADIT following the sale or retirement of an asset after December 31, 2017. FirstEnergy’s formula rate transmission utilities will make the required filings on or before the deadlines established in FERC’s order. FirstEnergy’s stated rate transmission utilities will address the requirements as part of their next transmission rate case. JCP&L is addressing the requirements in the course of its pending transmission rate case.  

Transmission ROE Methodology  

FERC’s methodology for calculating electric transmission utility ROE has been in transition as a result of an April 14, 2017 ruling by the D.C. Circuit that vacated FERC’s then-effective methodology. On October 16, 2018, FERC issued an order in which it proposed a revised ROE methodology. FERC proposed that, for complaint proceedings alleging that an existing ROE is not just and reasonable, FERC will rely on three financial models - discounted cash flow, capital-asset pricing, and expected earnings - to establish a composite zone of reasonableness to identify a range of just and reasonable ROEs. FERC then will utilize the transmission utility’s risk relative to other utilities within that zone of reasonableness to assign the transmission utility to one of three quartiles within the zone. FERC would take no further action (i.e., dismiss the complaint) if the existing ROE falls within the identified quartile. However, if the replacement ROE falls outside the quartile, FERC would deem the existing ROE presumptively unjust and unreasonable and would determine the replacement ROE. FERC would add a fourth financial model risk premium to the analysis to calculate a ROE based on the average point of central tendency for each of the four financial models. On March 21, 2019, FERC established NOIs to collect industry and stakeholder comments on the revised ROE methodology that is described in the October 16, 2018 decision, and also whether to make changes to FERC’s existing policies and practices for awarding transmission rates incentives. On November 21, 2019, FERC announced in a complaint proceeding involving MISO utilities that FERC would rely on the discounted cash flow and capital-asset pricing models as the basis for establishing ROE. It is not clear at this time whether FERC’s November ruling will be applied more broadly. Any changes to FERC’s transmission rate ROE and incentive policies would be applied on a prospective basis. FirstEnergy currently is participating through various trade groups in the FERC dockets where the ROE methodology is being reviewed, and on December 23, 2019, JCP&L filed a request for rehearing of FERC’s November decision in the MISO utilities docket. 

JCP&L Transmission Formula Rate 

On October 30, 2019, JCP&L filed tariff amendments with FERC to convert JCP&L’s existing stated transmission rate to a forward-looking formula transmission rate. JCP&L requested that the tariff amendments become effective January 1, 2020. On December 19, 2019, FERC issued its initial order in the case, allowing JCP&L to transition to a forward-looking formula rate as of January 1, 2020 as requested, subject to refund, pending further hearing and settlement proceedings. JCP&L is engaged in settlement negotiations.

9

Capital Requirements

FirstEnergy’s business is capital intensive, requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled debt maturities and interest payments, dividend payments and contributions to its pension plan.

As previously disclosed, on January 22, 2018, FirstEnergy announced a $2.5 billion equity issuance, which included $1.62 billion in mandatorily convertible preferred equity with an initial conversion price of $27.42 per share and $850 million of common equity issued at $28.22 per share. The equity investment strengthened the Company’s balance sheet, supported the company’s transition to a fully regulated utility company and positions FirstEnergy for sustained investment-grade credit metrics. The shares of preferred stock participated in the dividend paid on common stock on an as-converted basis and were non-voting except in certain limited circumstances. Because of this investment, FirstEnergy does not currently anticipate the need to issue additional equity through 2021 and expects to issue, subject to, among other things, market conditions, pricing terms and business operations, up to $600 million of equity annually in 2022 and 2023, including approximately $100 million in equity for its regular stock investment and employee benefit plans. As of August 1, 2019, an aggregate of 1,616,000 shares of preferred stock had been converted into 58,935,078 shares of common stock, and as a result, there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2019. 

In addition to this equity investment, FE and its distribution and transmission subsidiaries expect their existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet their respective anticipated obligations. In addition to internal sources to fund liquidity and capital requirements for 2020 and beyond, FE and its distribution and transmission subsidiaries expect to rely on external sources of funds. Short-term cash requirements not met by cash provided from operations are generally satisfied through short-term borrowings. Long-term cash needs may be met through the issuance of long-term debt by FE and certain of its distribution and transmission subsidiaries to, among other things, fund capital expenditures and refinance short-term and maturing long-term debt, subject to market conditions and other factors.

On February 1, 2019, FirstEnergy made a $500 million voluntary cash contribution to the qualified pension plan. FirstEnergy expects no required contributions through 2021. 

As part of the Energizing the Future initiative, the Center for Advanced Technology was opened in Akron, Ohio in April 2019. The 88,000 square feet facility was designed to be a hands-on environment where engineers and technicians can develop and evaluate new technology and grid solutions and simulate a variety of real-world conditions.

Capital expenditures for 2018 and 2019 and forecasted expenditures for 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023, by reportable segment are included below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FirstEnergy believes there are incremental investment opportunities for its existing transmission infrastructure of over $20 billion beyond those identified through 2023, which are expected to strengthen grid and cyber-security and make the transmission system more reliable, robust, secure and resistant to extreme weather events, with improved operational flexibility.

With an operating territory of 65,000 square miles, the scale and diversity of the ten Utilities that comprise the Regulated Distribution business uniquely position this business for growth through opportunities for additional investment. Over the past several years, Regulated Distribution has experienced rate base growth through investments that have improved reliability and added operating flexibility to the distribution infrastructure, which provide benefits to the customers and communities those Utilities serve. Based on its current capital plan, which includes over $10 billion in forecasted capital investments from 2018 through 2023, Regulated Distribution’s rate base compounded annual growth rate is expected to be approximately 4% from 2018 through 2023. Additionally, this business is exploring other opportunities for growth, including investments in electric system improvement and modernization projects to increase reliability and improve service to customers, as well as exploring opportunities in customer engagement that focus on the electrification of customers’ homes and businesses by providing a full range of products and services.

With approximately 24,500 miles of transmission lines in operation, the Regulated Transmission business is the centerpiece of FirstEnergy’s regulated investment strategy with nearly 90% of its capital investments recovered under forward-looking formula rates at the Transmission Companies, and beginning in 2020, JCP&L. Regulated Transmission has also experienced significant growth as part of its Energizing the Future transmission plan with plans to invest over $7 billion in capital from 2018 to 2023, which 

10

is expected to result in Regulated Transmission rate base compounded annual growth rate of approximately 10% from 2018 through 2023. 

In alignment with FirstEnergy’s strategy to invest in its Regulated Transmission and Regulated Distribution segments as a fully regulated company, FirstEnergy is also focused on improving the balance sheet over time consistent with its business profile and maintaining investment grade ratings at its regulated businesses and FE. Specifically, at the regulated businesses, regulatory authority has been obtained for various regulated distribution and transmission subsidiaries to issue and/or refinance debt. 

Any financing plans by FE or any of its consolidated subsidiaries, including the issuance of equity and debt, and the refinancing of short-term and maturing long-term debt are subject to market conditions and other factors. No assurance can be given that any such issuances, financing or refinancing, as the case may be, will be completed as anticipated or at all. Any delay in the completion of financing plans could require FE or any of its consolidated subsidiaries to utilize short-term borrowing capacity, which could impact available liquidity. In addition, FE and its consolidated subsidiaries expect to continually evaluate any planned financings, which may result in changes from time to time.  

On March 9, 2018, FES borrowed $500 million from FE under the secured credit facility, dated as of December 6, 2016, among FES, as borrower, FG and NG as guarantors, and FE, as lender, which fully utilized the committed line of credit available under the secured credit facility. Following the FES Bankruptcy deconsolidation of FES, FE fully reserved for the $500 million associated with the borrowings under the secured credit facility. Under the terms of the FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement discussed below, FE will release any and all claims against the FES Debtors with respect to the $500 million borrowed under the secured credit facility. 

On September 26, 2018, the Bankruptcy Court approved a FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement dated August 26, 2018, by and among FirstEnergy, two groups of key FES creditors (collectively, the FES Key Creditor Groups), the FES Debtors and the UCC. The FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement resolves certain claims by FirstEnergy against the FES Debtors and all claims by the FES Debtors and the FES Key Creditor Groups against FirstEnergy, and includes the following terms, among others:

•FE will pay certain pre-petition FES Debtors employee-related obligations, which include unfunded pension obligations and other employee benefits. 

•FE will waive all pre-petition claims (other than those claims under the Tax Allocation Agreement for the 2018 tax year) and certain post-petition claims, against the FES Debtors related to the FES Debtors and their businesses, including the full borrowings by FES under the $500 million secured credit facility, the $200 million credit agreement being used to support surety bonds, the BNSF Railway Company/CSX Transportation, Inc. rail settlement guarantee, and the FES Debtors' unfunded pension obligations.  

•The nonconsensual release of all claims against FirstEnergy by the FES Debtors' creditors, which was subsequently waived pursuant to the Waiver Agreement, discussed below. 

•A $225 million cash payment from FirstEnergy. 

•An additional $628 million cash payment from FirstEnergy, which may be decreased by the amount, if any, of cash paid by FirstEnergy to the FES Debtors under the Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement for the tax benefits related to the sale or deactivation of certain plants. On November 21, 2019, FirstEnergy, the FES Debtors, the UCC, and the FES Key Creditors Group entered into an amendment to the settlement agreement, which among other things, changed the $628 million note issuance, into a cash payment to be made upon emergence. The amendment was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on December 16, 2019.  

•Transfer of the Pleasants Power Station and related assets, including the economic interests therein as of January 1, 2019, and a requirement that FE continues to provide access to the McElroy's Run CCR Impoundment Facility, which is not being transferred. In addition, FE provides guarantees for certain retained environmental liabilities of AE Supply, including the McElroy’s Run CCR Impoundment Facility. On January 21, 2020, AE Supply, FG and a newly formed subsidiary of FG, entered into a letter agreement authorizing the transfer of Pleasants Power Station prior to the FES Debtors’ emergence from bankruptcy. The letter agreement was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on January 28, 2020. The transfer of the Pleasants Power Station was completed on January 30, 2020. 

•FirstEnergy agrees to waive all pre-petition claims related to shared services and credit for nine months of the FES Debtors' shared service costs beginning as of April 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018, in an amount not to exceed $112.5 million, and FirstEnergy agrees to extend the availability of shared services until no later than June 30, 2020. 

•Subject to a cap, FirstEnergy has agreed to fund a pension enhancement through its pension plan for voluntary enhanced retirement packages offered to certain FES employees, as well as offer certain other employee benefits (approximately $14 million recognized for the year ending December 31, 2019). 

•FirstEnergy agrees to perform under the Intercompany Tax Allocation Agreement through the FES Debtors’ emergence from bankruptcy, at which time FirstEnergy will waive a 2017 overpayment for NOLs of approximately $71 million, reverse 2018 estimated payments for NOLs of approximately $88 million and pay the FES Debtors for the use of NOLs in an amount no less than $66 million for 2018. Based on the 2018 federal tax return filed in September 2019, FirstEnergy owes the FES debtors approximately $31 million associated with 2018, which will be paid upon emergence. Based on current estimates for the 2019 tax return to be filed in 2020, FirstEnergy estimates that it owes the FES Debtors approximately $83 million of which FirstEnergy has paid $14 million as of December 31, 2019. The estimated amounts owed to the FES Debtors for 2018 and 2019 tax returns 

11

excludes amounts allocated for non-deductible interest as discussed in Note 3, "Discontinued Operations." FirstEnergy is currently reconciling tax matters under the Intercompany Tax Allocation Agreement with the FES Debtors.  

The FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement remains subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. There can be no assurance that such conditions will be satisfied or the FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement will be otherwise consummated, and the actual outcome of this matter may differ materially from the terms of the agreement described herein. FirstEnergy will continue to evaluate the impact of any new factors on the settlement and their relative impact on the financial statements.  

In connection with the FES Bankruptcy settlement agreement, FirstEnergy entered into a separation agreement with the FES Debtors to implement the separation of the FES Debtors and their businesses from FirstEnergy. A business separation committee was established between FirstEnergy and the FES Debtors to review and determine issues that arise in the context of the separation of the FES Debtors’ businesses from those of FirstEnergy. 

The following table presents scheduled debt repayments for outstanding long-term debt as of December 31, 2019, excluding lease commitments, for the next five years. PCRBs that are scheduled to be tendered for mandatory purchase prior to maturity are reflected in the applicable year in which such PCRBs are scheduled to be tendered.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table displays consolidated operating lease commitments as of December 31, 2019:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

FE and the Utilities and FET and certain of its subsidiaries participate in two separate five-year syndicated revolving credit facilities providing for aggregate commitments of $3.5 billion, which are available until December 6, 2022. Under the FE credit facility, an aggregate amount of $2.5 billion is available to be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed, subject to separate borrowing sub-limits for each borrower including FE and its regulated distribution subsidiaries. Under the FET credit facility, an aggregate amount of $1.0 billion is available to be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed under a syndicated credit facility, subject to separate borrowing sub-limits for each borrower including FE's transmission subsidiaries.

Borrowings under the credit facilities may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including intercompany loans and advances by a borrower to any of its subsidiaries. Generally, borrowings under each of the credit facilities are available to each borrower separately and mature on the earlier of 364 days from the date of borrowing or the commitment termination date, as the same may be extended. Each of the credit facilities contains financial covenants requiring each borrower to maintain a consolidated debt-to-total-capitalization ratio (as defined under each of the credit facilities) of no more than 65%, and 75% for FET, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter.

On October 19, 2018, FE entered into two separate syndicated term loan credit agreements, the first being a $1.25 billion 364-day facility with The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative agent, and the lenders identified therein, and the second being a $500 million two-year facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders identified therein, respectively, the proceeds of each were used to reduce short-term debt. The term loans contain covenants and other terms and conditions substantially similar to those of the FE revolving credit facility described above, including a consolidated debt-to-total-capitalization ratio. Effective September 11, 2019, the two credit agreements noted above were amended to change the amounts available under the existing facilities from $1.25 billion and $500 million to $1 billion and $750 million, respectively, and extend the maturity dates until September 9, 2020, and September 11, 2021, respectively. 

The borrowing of $1.75 billion under the term loans, which took the form of a Eurodollar rate advance, may be converted from time to time, in whole or in part, to alternate base rate advances or other Eurodollar rate advances. Outstanding alternate base rate advances will bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal to the sum of an applicable margin for alternate base rate 

12

advances determined by reference to FE’s reference ratings plus the highest of (i) the administrative agent’s publicly-announced “prime rate,” (ii) the sum of 1/2 of 1% per annum plus the Federal Funds Rate in effect from time to time and (iii) the rate of interest per annum appearing on a nationally-recognized service such as the Dow Jones Market Service (Telerate) equal to one-month LIBOR on each day plus 1%. Outstanding Eurodollar rate advances will bear interest at LIBOR for interest periods of one week or one, two, three or six months plus an applicable margin determined by reference to FE’s reference ratings. Changes in FE’s reference ratings would lower or raise its applicable margin depending on whether ratings improved or were lowered, respectively.

FirstEnergy had $1,000 million and $1,250 million of short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. FirstEnergy’s available liquidity from external sources as of January 31, 2020, was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) FE and the Utilities. Available liquidity includes impact of $4 million of LOCs issued under various terms.

(2) Includes FET and the Transmission Companies.

Nuclear Regulation

Under NRC regulations, JCP&L, ME and PN must ensure that adequate funds will be available to decommission their retired nuclear facility, TMI-2. As of December 31, 2019, JCP&L, ME and PN had in total approximately $882 million invested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of their retired TMI-2 nuclear generating facility. The values of these NDTs also fluctuate based on market conditions. If the values of the trusts decline by a material amount, the obligation to JCP&L, ME and PN to fund the trusts may increase. Disruptions in the capital markets and their effects on particular businesses and the economy could also affect the values of the NDTs. 

On October 15, 2019, JCP&L, ME, PN and GPUN executed an asset purchase and sale agreement with TMI-2 Solutions, LLC, a subsidiary of EnergySolutions, LLC, concerning the transfer and dismantlement of TMI-2. This transfer of TMI-2 to TMI-2 Solutions, LLC will include the transfer of: (i) the ownership and operating NRC licenses for TMI-2; (ii) the external trusts for the decommissioning and environmental remediation of TMI-2; and (iii) related liabilities of approximately $900 million as of December 31, 2019. There can be no assurance that the transfer will receive the required regulatory approvals and, even if approved, whether the conditions to the closing of the transfer will be satisfied. On November 12, 2019, JCP&L filed a Petition with the NJBPU seeking approval of the transfer and sale of JCP&L’s entire 25% interest in TMI-2 to TMI-2 Solutions, LLC. Also on November 12, 2019, JCP&L, ME, PN, GPUN and TMI-2 Solutions, LLC filed an application with the NRC seeking approval to transfer the NRC license for TMI-2 to TMI-2 Solutions, LLC. Both proceedings are ongoing. 

Nuclear Insurance

JCP&L, ME and PN maintain property damage insurance provided by NEIL for their interest in the retired TMI- 2 nuclear facility, a permanently shut down and defueled facility. Under these arrangements, up to $150 million of coverage for decontamination costs, decommissioning costs, debris removal and repair and/or replacement of property is provided. JCP&L, ME and PN pay annual premiums and are subject to retrospective premium assessments of up to approximately $1.2 million during a policy year. 

JCP&L, ME and PN intend to maintain insurance against nuclear risks as long as it is available. To the extent that property damage, decontamination, decommissioning, repair and replacement costs and other such costs arising from a nuclear incident at any of JCP&L, ME or PN’s plants exceed the policy limits of the insurance in effect with respect to that plant, to the extent a nuclear incident is determined not to be covered by JCP&L, ME or PN’s insurance policies, or to the extent such insurance becomes unavailable in the future, JCP&L, ME or PN would remain at risk for such costs. 

The Price-Anderson Act limits public liability relative to a single incident at a nuclear power plant. In connection with TMI-2, JCP&L, ME and PN carry the required ANI third party liability coverage and also have coverage under a Price Anderson indemnity agreement issued by the NRC. The total available coverage in the event of a nuclear incident is $560 million, which is also the limit of public liability for any nuclear incident involving TMI-2. 

Environmental Matters

Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal, and other environmental matters. While FirstEnergy's environmental policies and procedures are designed to achieve 

13

compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are subject to periodic review and potential revision by the implementing agencies. FirstEnergy cannot predict the timing or ultimate outcome of any of these reviews or how any future actions taken as a result thereof may materially impact its business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Clean Air Act

FirstEnergy complies with SO2 and NOx emission reduction requirements under the CAA and SIP(s) by burning lower-sulfur fuel, utilizing combustion controls and post-combustion controls and/or using emission allowances. 

CSAPR requires reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in two phases (2015 and 2017), ultimately capping SO2 emissions in affected states to 2.4 million tons annually and NOx emissions to 1.2 million tons annually. CSAPR allows trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances between power plants located in the same state and interstate trading of NOx and SO2 emission allowances with some restrictions. The D.C. Circuit ordered the EPA on July 28, 2015, to reconsider the CSAPR caps on NOx and SO2 emissions from power plants in 13 states, including Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. This follows the 2014 U.S. Supreme Court ruling generally upholding the EPA’s regulatory approach under CSAPR, but questioning whether the EPA required upwind states to reduce emissions by more than their contribution to air pollution in downwind states. The EPA issued a CSAPR update rule on September 7, 2016, reducing summertime NOx emissions from power plants in 22 states in the eastern U.S., including Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, beginning in 2017. Various states and other stakeholders appealed the CSAPR update rule to the D.C. Circuit in November and December 2016. On September 6, 2017, the D.C. Circuit rejected the industry's bid for a lengthy pause in the litigation and set a briefing schedule. On September 13, 2019, the D.C. Circuit remanded the CSAPR update rule to the EPA citing that the rule did not eliminate upwind states’ significant contributions to downwind states’ air quality attainment requirements within applicable attainment deadlines. Depending on the outcome of the appeals, the EPA’s reconsideration of the CSAPR update rule and how the EPA and the states ultimately implement CSAPR, the future cost of compliance may materially impact FirstEnergy's operations, cash flows and financial condition.

In February 2019, the EPA announced its final decision to retain without changes the NAAQS for SO2, specifically retaining the 2010 primary (health-based) 1-hour standard of 75 PPB. As of September 30, 2019, FirstEnergy has no power plants operating in areas designated as non-attainment by the EPA. 

In August 2016, the State of Delaware filed a CAA Section 126 petition with the EPA alleging that the Harrison generating facility's NOx emissions significantly contribute to Delaware's inability to attain the ozone NAAQS. The petition sought a short-term NOx emission rate limit of 0.125 lb/mmBTU over an averaging period of no more than 24 hours. In November 2016, the State of Maryland filed a CAA Section 126 petition with the EPA alleging that NOx emissions from 36 EGUs, including Harrison Units 1, 2 and 3 and Pleasants Units 1 and 2, significantly contribute to Maryland's inability to attain the ozone NAAQS. The petition sought NOx emission rate limits for the 36 EGUs by May 1, 2017. On September 14, 2018, the EPA denied both the States of Delaware and Maryland's petitions under CAA Section 126. In October 2018, Delaware and Maryland appealed the denials of their petitions to the D.C. Circuit. In March 2018, the State of New York filed a CAA Section 126 petition with the EPA alleging that NOx emissions from nine states (including Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia) significantly contribute to New York’s inability to attain the ozone NAAQS. The petition seeks suitable emission rate limits for large stationary sources that are affecting New York’s air quality within the three years allowed by CAA Section 126. On May 3, 2018, the EPA extended the time frame for acting on the CAA Section 126 petition by six months to November 9, 2018. On September 20, 2019, the EPA denied New York’s CAA Section 126 petition. On October 29, 2019, the State of New York appealed the denial of its petition to the D.C. Circuit. FirstEnergy is unable to predict the outcome of these matters or estimate the loss or range of loss.

Climate Change

There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions at the state, federal and international level. Certain northeastern states are participating in the RGGI and western states led by California, have implemented programs, primarily cap and trade mechanisms, to control emissions of certain GHGs. Additional policies reducing GHG emissions, such as demand reduction programs, renewable portfolio standards and renewable subsidies have been implemented across the nation. 

At the international level, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change resulted in the Kyoto Protocol requiring participating countries, which does not include the U.S., to reduce GHGs commencing in 2008 and has been extended through 2020. The Obama Administration submitted in March 2015, a formal pledge for the U.S. to reduce its economy-wide GHG emissions by 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. In 2015, FirstEnergy set a goal of reducing company-wide CO2 emissions by at least 90 percent below 2005 levels by 2045. As of December 31, 2018, FirstEnergy has reduced its CO2 emissions by approximately 62 percent. In September 2016, the U.S. joined in adopting the agreement reached on December 12, 2015, at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meetings in Paris. The Paris Agreement’s non-binding obligations to limit global warming to below two degrees Celsius became effective on November 4, 2016. On June 1, 2017, the Trump Administration announced that the U.S. would cease all participation in the Paris Agreement. FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2 emissions, or litigation alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require material capital and other expenditures or result in changes to its operations. 

In December 2009, the EPA released its final “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for GHG under the Clean Air Act,” concluding that concentrations of several key GHGs constitutes an "endangerment" and may be regulated as "air pollutants" under 

14

the CAA and mandated measurement and reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources, including electric generating plants. The EPA released its final CPP regulations in August 2015 to reduce CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs and finalized separate regulations imposing CO2 emission limits for new, modified, and reconstructed fossil fuel fired EGUs. Numerous states and private parties filed appeals and motions to stay the CPP with the D.C. Circuit in October 2015. On February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the rule during the pendency of the challenges to the D.C. Circuit and U.S. Supreme Court. On March 28, 2017, an executive order, entitled “Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth,” instructed the EPA to review the CPP and related rules addressing GHG emissions and suspend, revise or rescind the rules if appropriate. On October 16, 2017, the EPA issued a proposed rule to repeal the CPP. To replace the CPP, the EPA proposed the ACE rule on August 21, 2018, which would establish emission guidelines for states to develop plans to address GHG emissions from existing coal-fired power plants. On June 19, 2019, the EPA repealed the CPP and replaced it with the ACE rule that establishes guidelines for states to develop standards of performance to address GHG emissions from existing coal-fired power plants. Depending on the outcomes of further appeals and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, the future cost of compliance may be material. 

Clean Water Act

Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal CWA and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy's facilities. In addition, the states in which FirstEnergy operates have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergy's operations. 

The EPA finalized CWA Section 316(b) regulations in May 2014, requiring cooling water intake structures with an intake velocity greater than 0.5 feet per second to reduce fish impingement when aquatic organisms are pinned against screens or other parts of a cooling water intake system to a 12% annual average and requiring cooling water intake structures exceeding 125 million gallons per day to conduct studies to determine site-specific controls, if any, to reduce entrainment, which occurs when aquatic life is drawn into a facility's cooling water system. Depending on any final action taken by the states with respect to impingement and entrainment, the future capital costs of compliance with these standards may be material. 

On September 30, 2015, the EPA finalized new, more stringent effluent limits for the Steam Electric Power Generating category (40 CFR Part 423) for arsenic, mercury, selenium and nitrogen for wastewater from wet scrubber systems and zero discharge of pollutants in ash transport water. The treatment obligations phase-in as permits are renewed on a five-year cycle from 2018 to 2023. On April 13, 2017, the EPA granted a Petition for Reconsideration and on September 18, 2017, the EPA postponed certain compliance deadlines for two years. On November 4, 2019, the EPA issued a proposed rule revising the effluent limits for discharges from wet scrubber systems and extending the deadline for compliance to December 31, 2025. The EPA’s proposed rule retains the zero discharge standard and 2023 compliance date for ash transport water, but adds some allowances for discharge under certain circumstances. In addition, the EPA allows for less stringent limits for sub-categories of generating units based on capacity utilization, flow volume from the scrubber system, and unit retirement date. Depending on the outcome of appeals and how any final rules are ultimately implemented, the future costs of compliance with these standards may be substantial and changes to FirstEnergy's operations may result.  

On September 29, 2016, FirstEnergy received a request from the EPA for information pursuant to CWA Section 308(a) for information concerning boron exceedances of effluent limitations established in the NPDES Permit for the former Mitchell Power Station’s Mingo landfill, owned by WP. On November 1, 2016, WP provided an initial response that contained information related to a similar boron issue at the former Springdale Power Station’s landfill. The EPA requested additional information regarding the Springdale landfill and on November 15, 2016, WP provided a response and intends to fully comply with the Section 308(a) information request. On March 3, 2017, WP proposed to the PA DEP a re-route of its wastewater discharge to eliminate potential boron exceedances at the Springdale landfill. On January 29, 2018, WP submitted an NPDES permit renewal application to PA DEP proposing to re-route its wastewater discharge to eliminate potential boron exceedances at the Mingo landfill. On February 20, 2018, the DOJ issued a letter and tolling agreement on behalf of EPA alleging violations of the CWA at the Mingo landfill while seeking to enter settlement negotiations in lieu of filing a complaint. On November 4, 2019, the EPA proposed a penalty of nearly $1.3 million to settle alleged past boron exceedances at the Mingo and Springdale landfills. On December 17, 2019, WP responded to the EPA's settlement proposal but is unable to predict the outcome of this matter. 

Regulation of Waste Disposal

Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the RCRA, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Certain CCRs, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal requirements pending the EPA's evaluation of the need for future regulation.

In April 2015, the EPA finalized regulations for the disposal of CCRs (non-hazardous), establishing national standards for landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring and protection procedures and other operational and reporting procedures to assure the safe disposal of CCRs from electric generating plants. On September 13, 2017, the EPA announced that it would reconsider certain provisions of the final regulations. On July 17, 2018, the EPA Administrator signed a final rule extending the deadline for certain CCR facilities to cease disposal and commence closure activities, as well as, establishing less stringent groundwater monitoring and protection requirements. On August 21, 2018, the D.C. Circuit remanded sections of the CCR Rule to the EPA to provide additional safeguards for unlined CCR impoundments that are more protective of human health and the environment. On November 4, 2019, the EPA issued a proposed rule accelerating the 

15

date that certain CCR impoundments must cease accepting waste and initiate closure to August 31, 2020. The proposed rule, which includes a 60-day comment period, provides exceptions, which could allow extensions to closure dates.  

FirstEnergy or its subsidiaries have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may require cleanup under the CERCLA. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis. Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019, based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, FirstEnergy's proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other unaffiliated entities to pay. Total liabilities of approximately $109 million have been accrued through December 31, 2019. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately $77 million for environmental remediation of former MGP and gas holder facilities in New Jersey, which are being recovered by JCP&L through a non-bypassable SBC. FE or its subsidiaries could be found potentially responsible for additional amounts or additional sites, but the loss or range of losses cannot be determined or reasonably estimated at this time. 

Fuel Supply

MP currently has coal contracts with various terms to acquire approximately 7.5 million tons of coal for the year 2020, which is approximately 97.4% of its forecasted 2020 coal requirements. This contracted coal is produced primarily from mines located in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The contracts expire at various times through 2024. See "Environmental Matters," for additional information pertaining to the impact of increased environmental regulations on coal supply and transportation contracts applicable to certain deactivated coal-fired generating units and related pending disputes.

System Demand

The maximum hourly demand for each of the Utilities was:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Supply Plan

Certain of the Utilities have default service obligations to provide power to non-shopping customers who have elected to continue to receive service under regulated retail tariffs. The volume of these sales can vary depending on the level of shopping that occurs. Supply plans vary by state and by service territory. JCP&L’s default service or BGS supply is secured through a statewide competitive procurement process approved by the NJBPU. Default service for the Ohio Companies, Pennsylvania Companies and PE's Maryland jurisdiction are provided through a competitive procurement process approved by the PUCO (under ESP IV), PPUC (under the DSP) and MDPSC (under the SOS), respectively. If any supplier fails to deliver power to any one of those Utilities’ service areas, the Utility serving that area may need to procure the required power in the market in their role as the default LSE. West Virginia electric generation continues to be regulated by the WVPSC.

Regional Reliability

All of FirstEnergy's facilities are located within the PJM Region and operate under the reliability oversight of a regional entity known as RFC. This regional entity operates under the oversight of NERC in accordance with a delegation agreement approved by FERC.

Competition

Within FirstEnergy’s Regulated Distribution segment, generally there is no competition for electric distribution service in the Utilities’ respective service territories in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey and New York. Additionally, there has traditionally been no competition for transmission service in PJM. However, pursuant to FERC’s Order No. 1000 and subject to state and local siting and permitting approvals, non-incumbent developers now can compete for certain PJM transmission projects in the service territories of FirstEnergy’s Regulated Transmission segment. This could result in additional competition to build 

16

transmission facilities in the Regulated Transmission segment’s service territories while also allowing the Regulated Transmission segment the opportunity to seek to build facilities in non-incumbent service territories.

Seasonality

The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business, and weather patterns can have a material impact on FirstEnergy’s operating results. Demand for electricity in our service territories historically peaks during the summer and winter months. Accordingly, FirstEnergy’s annual results of operations and liquidity position may depend disproportionately on its operating performance during the summer and winter, except for certain customers that are on a decoupled rate. Mild weather conditions may result in lower power sales and consequently lower earnings.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Indicates position held at least since January 1, 2015

(A) Denotes position held at FE

(B) Denotes position held at FESC

(C) Denotes position held at the Ohio Companies, the Pennsylvania Companies, MP, PE, FET, TrAIL and ATSI

(D) Denotes position held at AGC

(E) Denotes position held at MAIT

(F) Denotes position held at FES and FG, which filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in March 2018

(G) Denotes position held at FENOC, which filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in March 2018

17

Employees

As of December 31, 2019, FirstEnergy had 12,316 employees located in the United States as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of December 31, 2019, the IBEW, the UWUA and the OPEIU unions collectively represented 5,362 of FirstEnergy’s employees. There are 15 CBAs between FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries and its unions, which have three, four or five year terms. In 2019, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries reached new agreements with two IBEW locals, covering 468 employees.

FirstEnergy Website and Other Social Media Sites and Applications

FirstEnergy's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports and all other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on or through the "Investors" page of FirstEnergy’s website at www.firstenergycorp.com. These documents are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.

These SEC filings are posted on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Additionally, FirstEnergy routinely posts additional important information, including press releases, investor presentations and notices of upcoming events under the "Investors" section of FirstEnergy’s website and recognizes FirstEnergy’s website as a channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material non-public information for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Investors may be notified of postings to the website by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds on the "Investors" page of FirstEnergy's website. FirstEnergy also uses Twitter® and Facebook® as additional channels of distribution to reach public investors and as a supplemental means of disclosing material non-public information for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Information contained on FirstEnergy’s website, Twitter® handle or Facebook® page, and any corresponding applications of those sites, shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be part of, this report.

18

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS