PART I

Item 1. Business 

Fluor Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in September, 2000 prior to a reverse spin-off transaction. However, through our predecessors, we have been in business for over a century. Our principal executive offices are located at 6700 Las Colinas Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039, and our telephone number is (469) 398-7000.

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "FLR".

Fluor Corporation is a holding company that owns the stock of a number of subsidiaries, as well as interests in joint ventures. Acting through these entities, we are one of the largest professional services firms providing engineering, procurement, construction, fabrication and modularization, operations, maintenance and asset integrity, as well as project management services, on a global basis. We provide these services to our clients in a diverse set of industries worldwide including oil and gas, chemicals and petrochemicals, mining and metals, infrastructure, life sciences, advanced manufacturing and advanced technologies. We are also a service provider to the U.S. federal government and governments abroad; and, we perform operations, maintenance and asset integrity activities globally for major industrial clients.

At December 31, 2019, we operated our business through five principal segments. The five segments were: Energy & Chemicals; Mining & Industrial; Infrastructure & Power; Diversified Services; and Other. Fluor Constructors International, Inc., which is organized and operates separately from the rest of our business, provides unionized management and construction services in the United States and Canada, both independently and as a subcontractor on projects in each of our segments. In the third quarter of 2019, we committed to a plan to sell substantially all of our government and equipment (“AMECO®”) businesses, which are reported as discontinued operations as of December 31, 2019, as further discussed below. In the first quarter of 2020, we decided to retain our government business, and as a result, it will no longer be reported as discontinued operations in 2020 and will be reported as the Government segment. Our plan to sell the AMECO equipment business remains unchanged. As a result, since the first quarter of 2020, our business has been divided into six principal segments.

Competitive Strengths

As a world-class provider of engineering, procurement, construction, fabrication and modularization, operations, maintenance and asset integrity, and project management services, we believe that our business model allows us the opportunity to bring to our clients on a global basis capital efficient business offerings that combine excellence in execution, safety, cost containment and experience. In that regard, we believe that our business strategies, which are based on certain of our core competencies, provide us with some significant competitive advantages:

Safety. One of our core values is our constant focus on safety. The maintenance of a safe and secure workplace is a key business driver for us and our clients. In providing our services, we strive to deliver excellent safety performance. In our experience, whether in an office or at a job-site, a safe environment decreases risks, assures a proper environment for all workers, enhances morale and improves productivity, reduces project cost and generally improves client relations. We believe that our commitment to safety is one of our most distinguishing features.

Global Execution Platform. As one of the larger U.S.-based, publicly-traded engineering, procurement, construction, fabrication, operations, maintenance and asset integrity companies, we have a global footprint with employees situated throughout the world. Our global presence allows us to build local relationships that permit us to capitalize on opportunities near these locations. We believe it also allows us to mobilize quickly to project sites around the world and to draw on our local knowledge and talent pools. We continue to form strategic alliances with local partners, leverage our supply chain expertise and emphasize local training programs. We also provide services from our distributed execution centers on a cost-efficient basis.

Excellence in Execution. We believe that our ability to execute, maintain and manage complex projects, often in geographically challenging locations, gives us a distinct competitive advantage. We strive to complete our projects meeting or exceeding all client specifications. We have continued to shift toward data-driven execution, which we expect will enhance our ability to meet our clients' needs.

Market Diversity. We serve multiple markets across a broad spectrum of industries around the globe. We feel that our market diversity is a key strength that helps to mitigate the impact of the cyclicality in the markets we serve. Just as important, our concentrated attention on market diversification should allow us to achieve more consistent growth and deliver solid returns. We believe that our continued strategy of maintaining a good mixture within our entire business portfolio permits us to both focus on our more stable business markets and to capitalize on developing our cyclical markets when the timing is appropriate.

5
Client Relationships. We actively pursue relationships with new clients while also building on our long-term relationships with existing clients. We believe that long-term relationships with existing, sometimes decades-old, clients serve us well by allowing us to better understand and be more responsive to their requirements. Regardless of whether our clients are new or have been with us for many years, our ability to successfully foster relationships is a key driver to the success of our business.

Risk Management. In combination with our new pursuit criteria and guidelines we believe we have the ability to assess, understand, gauge, mitigate and manage project risk, especially in difficult locations or circumstances. We have an experienced management team, and utilize a systematic and disciplined approach towards identifying, assessing and managing risks. We believe that our comprehensive approach to risk management heightens our ability to better control costs and meet schedule, which in turn leads to clients who are satisfied with the delivered product.

General Operations

Our services fall into six broad categories: engineering and design; procurement; construction; fabrication and modularization; operations, maintenance and asset integrity; and project management. Our services can range from basic consulting activities, often at the early stages of a project, to complete design-build, operations and maintenance contracts.

•In engineering and design, we develop solutions to address our clients’ most complex problems. Our engineering services range from traditional engineering disciplines such as piping, mechanical, electrical, control systems, civil, structural and architectural to advanced engineering specialties including process engineering, chemical engineering, simulation, integrated automation processes and interactive 3-D modeling. Through our design solutions, we can provide clients with varied offerings which can include front-end engineering, conceptual design, estimating, feasibility studies, permitting, process simulation, technology and licensing evaluation, scope definition and siting. Our engineering and design solutions are intended to align each project’s function, scope, cost and schedule in concert with client objectives in order to optimize project success.

•Our procurement organization offers procurement and supply chain solutions aimed at improving product quality and performance while also reducing project cost and schedule. Our clients can benefit from our global sourcing and supply expertise, global purchasing power, technical knowledge, processes, systems and experienced global resources. Our procurement activities include strategic sourcing, material management, contracts management, buying, expediting, supplier quality inspection and logistics.

•In construction, we mobilize, execute, commission and demobilize projects on a self-perform or subcontracted basis. Generally, we are responsible for the completion of a project, often in difficult locations and under challenging circumstances. We are frequently designated as a program manager, and serve as such without regard to whether the client has facilities in multiple locations, complex phases in a single project location, or a large-scale investment in a facility.

•We also provide a variety of fabrication and modularization services, including integrated engineering and modular fabrication and assembly, as well as modular construction and asset support services to clients around the globe from our joint venture yards. By operating our own fabrication yards in key regions of the world, our off-site fabrication solutions can help our clients achieve cost and schedule savings by reducing on-site craft needs and shifting work to inherently safer and more controlled work environments.

•We offer operations, maintenance and asset integrity services intended to improve the performance and extend the life of our clients’ facilities. Diversified services include the delivery of total maintenance services, facility management, plant readiness, commissioning, start-up and maintenance technology, small capital projects, and turnaround and outage services, all on a global basis. Among other things, we can provide key management, staffing and management skills to clients on-site at their facilities. Our diversified services activities also include routine and outage/turnaround maintenance services, general maintenance and asset management, emissions reduction technologies and services, and restorative, repair, predictive and prevention services. 

•Project management is the primary responsibility of managing all aspects of the effort to deliver projects on schedule and within budget, and is critical on every project. We are often hired as the overall program manager on large complex projects where various contractors and subcontractors are involved and multiple activities need to be integrated to ensure the success of the overall project. Project management services include logistics, development of project execution plans, detailed schedules, cost forecasts, progress tracking and reporting, and 

6
the integration of the engineering, procurement and construction efforts. Project management is accountable to the client to deliver the safety, functionality and financial performance requirements of the project.

At December 31, 2019, we operated our business through five principal business segments, which are described below. In light of our decision to retain our government business, since the first quarter of 2020 we have operated our business through six principal business segments, and beginning with the first quarter of 2020 our government business will be reported as the Government segment.

Energy & Chemicals

Our Energy & Chemicals segment focuses on opportunities in the upstream, midstream, downstream, chemical, petrochemical, offshore and onshore oil and gas production, liquefied natural gas and pipeline markets. We have long served a broad spectrum of industries offering a full range of design, engineering, procurement, construction, fabrication and project management services. While we perform projects that range greatly in size and scope, we believe that one of our distinguishing features is that we are one of the few companies that have the global strength and experience to perform extremely large projects in difficult locations. As the locations of large scale energy and chemicals projects have become more challenging geographically, geopolitically or otherwise, we believe that clients will continue to look to us based upon our size, strength, global reach, experience and track record to manage their complex projects.

With each specific project, our role can vary. We may be involved in providing front-end engineering, program management and final design services, construction management services, self-perform construction, or oversight of other contractors, and we may also assume responsibility for the procurement of materials, equipment and subcontractors. We have the capacity to design, fabricate and construct new facilities, upgrade, modernize and expand existing facilities, and rebuild facilities following fires and explosions. We also provide consulting services ranging from feasibility studies to process assessments to project finance structuring and studies.

In the upstream sector, our clients need to develop additional and new sources of supply. Our typical projects in the upstream sector revolve around the production, processing and transporting of oil and gas resources, including the development of infrastructure associated with major new fields and pipelines, as well as liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects. We are also involved in offshore production facilities and in conventional and unconventional gas projects in various geographic locations.

In the downstream sector, our clients have been modernizing and modifying existing refineries to increase capacity, improve margins and improve environmental performance. We continue to play a strong role in each of these markets. We are also focused on sustainable markets, such as clean fuels, green energy and carbon sequestration, where an increasing number of clients and countries are implementing stronger environmental standards and goals.

We have been very active for several years in the chemicals and petrochemicals market, with major projects involving the expansion of ethylene-based derivatives. The most active markets have been in the United States, Middle East and Asia, where there is significant demand for chemical products.

Mining & Industrial

The Mining & Industrial segment provides design, engineering, procurement, construction and project management services to the mining and metals, life sciences, advanced manufacturing and advanced technologies sectors.

In mining and metals, we provide a full range of services to our clients who produce a variety of commodities, including bauxite, copper, gold, iron ore, diamond, nickel, alumina, aluminum and phosphates. Our services include conceptual and feasibility studies through detailed engineering, design, procurement, construction, commissioning and startup support. Many of these opportunities are being developed in remote and logistically challenging environments, such as the Andes Mountains, Western Australia and Africa. We believe we are one of the few companies with the size, regional presence and experience to execute large scale mining and metals projects in these difficult and remote locations. 

For the advanced manufacturing and technologies market, we provide design, engineering, procurement, construction and construction management services to a wide variety of industries on a global basis. We specialize in designing projects that incorporate lean manufacturing concepts while also satisfying client sustainability goals. Our experience spans a wide variety of market segments ranging from traditional manufacturing to advanced technology projects, such as data centers.

In life sciences, we provide design, engineering, procurement, construction and construction management services to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We also specialize in providing validation and commissioning services where we not only bring new facilities into production, but we also keep existing facilities operating. We believe the ability to 

7
complete projects on a large scale basis, especially in a business where time to market is critical, enables us to better serve our clients and is a key competitive advantage.

Infrastructure & Power

The Infrastructure & Power segment provides design, engineering, procurement, construction and project management services to the infrastructure sector.

We are an industry leader in developing infrastructure projects for governments, such as roads, highways, bridges and rail, with particular interest in large, complex projects. We provide a broad range of services including consulting, design, planning, financial structuring, engineering and construction. We also provide long-term operation and maintenance services for transit and highway projects. Our projects may involve the use of public/private partnerships, which allow us to develop and finance deals in concert with public entities for projects such as toll roads and rail lines that would not have otherwise been undertaken with public funding alone. The replacement and expansion of aging infrastructure in North America continues to drive project opportunities.

Historically, we have also offered a full range of services including engineering, procurement, construction, program management, startup and commissioning and technical services to utilities, independent power producers, original equipment manufacturers and other third parties.

Government

In the third quarter of 2019, we committed to a plan to sell substantially all of our government business, while retaining the two fixed price government projects referred to below in the Other segment. The government business that was expected to be sold is reported as discontinued operations as of December 31, 2019. In the first quarter of 2020, we decided to retain the government business, and as a result, it will not be reported as discontinued operations in 2020 and will be reported as the Government segment.

The Government segment provides engineering and construction services, logistics and life-support, as well as contingency operations support, to the defense sector. We support military logistical and infrastructure needs around the world, including life-support, engineering, procurement, construction and logistical augmentation services to the U.S. military and coalition forces in various international locations. This segment also provides full life-cycle infrastructure support to the U.S. intelligence community globally.

The Government segment also provides support to the U.S. Department of Energy and National Nuclear Security Administration that includes management, mission operations, environmental remediation, decommissioning, engineering and construction services that address the myriad environmental and regulatory challenges associated with legacy and operational nuclear sites.

We also provide support to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. This includes supporting the U.S. government’s rapid response capabilities to address security issues and disaster relief, the latter primarily through our long-standing relationship with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and in support of the Army Corps of Engineers.

Diversified Services

The Diversified Services segment provides a wide array of asset maintenance, asset integrity and staffing services. These services are provided around the world during both the project delivery phase as well as to new or existing client production assets.

Through our subsidiary, Stork, we provide asset maintenance and asset integrity services to the oil and gas, chemicals, life sciences, power, mining and metals, consumer products and manufacturing industries. We focus on asset management solutions, as well as providing asset services in diverse areas such as electrical and instrumentation, fabric maintenance, mechanical and piping. We also provide asset integrity services, including new asset readiness solutions, inspection of existing assets, and asset turnaround and modification solutions. This business, driven by annual operating expenditures, often benefits from large projects that originate in another of our segments, which can lead to long-term operations or maintenance opportunities. Our long-term maintenance contracts can also lead to larger capital projects for our other business segments when those needs arise. Our goal is to help clients improve the performance of their assets, including late-life management solutions.

Staffing services, also part of Diversified Services, are provided through TRS Staffing Solutions®. TRS is a global enterprise of staffing specialists that provides the company and third party clients with technical, professional and craft resources either on a contract or permanent placement basis.

8
Other

Our Other segment includes the financial information for NuScale, as well as two lump-sum projects for which the U.S. government is either the client or ultimate client.

NuScale, a small modular nuclear reactor (“SMR”) technology company, is a leader in the development of light water, passively safe SMRs, which we believe will provide us with significant future project opportunities. NuScale received final design certification by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in August 2020. 

Discontinued Operations

In the third quarter of 2019, we implemented a number of strategic initiatives and organizational changes to strengthen our financial position and improve operational performance. Among those initiatives, we committed to a plan to sell substantially all of our government and AMECO businesses, while retaining the two fixed price government projects referenced above in the Other segment. The government and AMECO businesses that were expected to be sold are reported as discontinued operations as of December 31, 2019. In the first quarter of 2020, we decided to retain the government business, which will no longer be reported as discontinued operations in 2020.

AMECO provides integrated construction equipment, tool, scaffolding and fleet service solutions to the company and third party clients in a focused number of locations around the world for construction projects and client production assets.

Other Matters

Backlog

Backlog represents the total amount of revenues we expect to record in the future based upon contracts that have been awarded to us. Backlog is stated in terms of gross revenues and may include significant estimated amounts of third-party, subcontracted and pass-through costs.

Backlog in the engineering and construction industry is a measure of the value of work to be performed on contracts awarded and in progress. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)With respect to our ongoing operations and maintenance and asset integrity contracts in the Diversified Services segment, backlog includes the amount of revenue we expect to recognize for the remainder of the current year renewal period plus up to three additional years if renewal is considered to be probable. The equipment and temporary staffing businesses in the Diversified Services segment do not report backlog or new awards.

(2)Includes backlog of $1.7 billion and $978 million for projects in a loss position as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(3)Total backlog excludes $3.6 billion and $4.4 billion of backlog as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, associated with the government business, which was considered discontinued operations as of December 31, 2019.

(4)For projects related to proportionately consolidated joint ventures, we include only our percentage ownership of each joint venture's backlog.

9
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

Although backlog reflects business that we consider to be firm, cancellations, deferrals or scope adjustments may occur. Backlog is adjusted to reflect any known project cancellations, revisions to project scope and cost, foreign currency exchange fluctuations and project deferrals, as appropriate. The terms and conditions of certain contracts include elements of both fixed-price and reimbursable contracts; and therefore, amounts reported in backlog as reimbursable contracts may be reclassified as fixed-price contracts. Due to additional factors outside of our control, such as changes in project schedules, we cannot predict the timing that our December 31, 2019 backlog will be earned as revenue after January 1, 2021. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future earnings or revenues and no assurances can be provided that we will ultimately realize on our backlog.

The following table sets forth our changes in consolidated backlog:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)During 2019, we removed certain contracts associated with our joint venture in Mexico that were suspended during the second quarter of 2019. During 2018, adjustments and cancellations were partially offset by an increase in backlog as a result of the adoption of ASC 606. 

In 2020, we expect to perform approximately 48% of our total backlog reported as of December 31, 2019. In comparison, during the last three years we expected to annually perform an average of 44% of our total year-end backlog in the subsequent fiscal year. 

Types of Contracts

While the basic terms and conditions of the contracts that we perform may vary considerably, we typically perform our work under two types of contracts: (a) reimbursable contracts and (b) fixed-price, lump-sum or guaranteed maximum contracts. In some markets, we are seeing hybrid contracts containing both fixed-price and reimbursable elements. As of December 31, 2019, the following table summarizes contract type within our ending backlog:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)Excludes $3.6 billion of backlog associated with the government business which consists almost entirely of reimbursable contracts. The government business was considered discontinued operations as of December 31, 2019.

10
In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts are subject to termination at the discretion of our client. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for the payment of fees earned through the date of termination and the reimbursement of costs incurred including demobilization costs.

Under reimbursable contracts, the client reimburses us based upon negotiated rates and pays us a pre-determined or fixed fee, or a fee based upon a percentage of the cost incurred in completing the project. Our profit may be in the form of a fee, a simple markup applied to labor cost incurred in performing the contract, or a combination of the two. The fee element may also vary. The fee may be an incentive fee based upon achieving certain performance factors, milestones or targets; it may be a fixed amount in the contract; or it may be based upon a percentage of the cost incurred. In some cases, reimbursable contracts may be converted into fixed-price or lump-sum contracts.

Our government business, primarily acting as a prime contractor or a major subcontractor for a number of government programs, generally performs its services under reimbursable contracts subject to applicable statutes and regulations. In many cases, these contracts include incentive fee arrangements. The programs may span many years and may be implemented by awards under multiple contracts. Some of our government contracts are known as indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (“IDIQ”) agreements. Under these arrangements, we work closely with the government to define the scope and amount of work required based upon an estimate of the maximum amount that the government desires to spend. While the scope is often not initially fully defined or does not require any specific amount of work, once the project scope is determined, additional work may be awarded to us without the need for further competitive bidding.

Fixed-price contracts include both lump-sum contracts and negotiated fixed-price contracts. Under lump-sum contracts, we typically bid based upon specifications provided by the client. This type of contracting presents significant risks because it requires us to predetermine the work to be performed, the project execution schedule and all costs associated with the work. Under negotiated fixed-price contracts, we are selected as contractor first, and then we negotiate price with the client. Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently occur in single-responsibility arrangements where we perform some of the work before negotiating the total price for the project. Another type of fixed-price contract is a unit price contract under which we are paid a set amount for every “unit” of work performed. If we perform well under these types of contracts, we can benefit from cost savings; however, if the project does not proceed as originally planned, we generally cannot recover cost overruns except in certain limited situations.

Guaranteed maximum price contracts are reimbursable contracts except that the total fee plus the total cost cannot exceed an agreed upon guaranteed maximum price. We can be responsible for some or all of the total cost of the project if the cost exceeds the guaranteed maximum price. Where the total cost is less than the negotiated guaranteed maximum price, we may receive the benefit of the cost savings based upon a negotiated agreement with the client.

Some of our contracts, regardless of type, may operate under joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. Typically, we enter into these arrangements with reputable companies with whom we have worked previously. These arrangements are generally made to strengthen our market position or technical skills, or where the size, scale or location of the project directs the use of such arrangements.

Competition

We are one of the world’s larger providers of engineering, procurement, construction, fabrication and modularization, operations, maintenance and asset integrity, and project management services. The markets served by our business are highly competitive and, for the most part, require substantial resources and highly skilled and experienced technical personnel. A large number of companies are competing in the markets served by our business, including U.S.-based companies such as AECOM, Bechtel Group, Inc., EMCOR Group, Inc., Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc., KBR, Inc., Kiewit Corporation, Granite Construction, Inc. and Quanta Services, Inc., and international-based companies such as ACS Actividades de Construccion y Servicios, Balfour Beatty plc, Chiyoda Corporation, Hyundai Engineering & Construction Company, Ltd., JGC Corporation, McDermott International, Inc., Petrofac Limited, SNC-Lavalin Group, Inc., Samsung Engineering, Stantec Inc., TechnipFMC plc, Wood Group plc, and WorleyParsons Limited.

In the engineering, procurement, fabrication and construction arena, which is served by our Energy & Chemicals, Mining & Industrial and Infrastructure & Power segments, competition is based on an ability to provide the design, engineering, planning, management and project execution skills required to complete complex projects in a safe, timely and cost-efficient manner. We believe our engineering, procurement, fabrication and construction business derives its competitive strength from our diversity, excellence in execution, reputation for quality, technology, cost-effectiveness, worldwide procurement capability, project management expertise, geographic coverage, ability to meet client requirements by performing construction on either a union or an open shop basis, ability to execute complex projects of varying sizes, strong safety record and lengthy experience with a wide range of services and technologies.

11
The various markets served by the Diversified Services segment, while having some similarities to the construction and procurement arena, tend also to have discrete issues impacting individual business lines. Each of the markets we serve has a large number of companies competing in its markets. In the operations and maintenance markets, barriers to entry are both financially and logistically low, resulting in a fragmented industry with no single company being dominant. Competition in those markets is generally driven by reputation, price and the capacity to perform. Temporary staffing is a highly fragmented market with over 1,000 companies competing globally. The key competitive factors in this business line are price, service, quality, client relationships, breadth of service and the ability to identify and retain qualified personnel and geographic coverage.

In the government business, key competitive factors are primarily centered on performance, reputation and the ability to provide the design, engineering, planning, management and project execution skills required to complete complex projects in a safe, timely, cost-efficient and compliant manner. The AMECO business, which operates in numerous markets, is highly fragmented and very competitive, with a large number of competitors mostly operating in specific geographic areas. The competition in the equipment business for larger capital project services is more narrow and limited to only those capable of providing comprehensive equipment, tool and management services. 

Significant Clients

During 2019, revenue earned from Exxon Mobil Corporation accounted for 14% of our revenue. We perform work for Exxon Mobil Corporation under multiple contracts and often through joint venture arrangements. During 2019, revenue earned from agencies of the U.S. government amounted to $2.6 billion. The majority of this revenue was included in discontinued operations. No other client accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2019. 

Raw Materials

The principal products we use in our business include structural steel, metal plate, concrete, cable and various electrical and mechanical components. These products and components are subject to raw material (aluminum, copper, nickel, iron ore, etc.) availability and pricing fluctuations, which we monitor on a regular basis. We have access to numerous global supply sources, and we do not foresee any unavailability of these items that would have a material adverse effect on our business in the near term. However, the availability of these products, components and raw materials may vary significantly from year to year due to various factors including client demand, producer capacity, market conditions and specific material shortages.

Patents

We hold patents and licenses for certain items that we use in our operations, including those held by NuScale. However, none is so essential that its loss would materially affect our business.

Environmental, Safety and Health Matters

We provide services at sites throughout the world. Work at some of these sites involves activities related to nuclear facilities, hazardous waste, hydrocarbon production, distribution and transport, the military and infrastructure. Some of our work can be performed adjacent to environmentally sensitive locations such as wetlands, lakes and rivers. We also contract with the U.S. federal government to remediate hazardous materials, including chemical agents and weapons, as well as to decontaminate and decommission nuclear sites. These activities can require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic, radioactive or hazardous substances, and are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.

We believe, based upon present information available to us, that we are generally compliant with all such environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We further believe that any accruals with respect to future environmental costs are adequate and that any future costs will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or competitive position. Some factors, however, could result in additional expenditures or the provision of additional accruals in expectation of such expenditures. These include the imposition of more stringent requirements under environmental laws or regulations, new developments or changes regarding site cleanup costs or the allocation of such costs among potentially responsible parties, or a determination that we are potentially responsible for the release of hazardous substances at sites other than those currently identified.

Number of Employees

The following summarizes employee information for Fluor and its subsidiaries, including those in discontinued operations, as of December 31, 2019:

12
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The number of craft and hourly employees varies in relation to the number, size and phase of execution of projects we have in process at any particular time.

Information about our Executive Officers

The following information is being furnished with respect to the company's executive officers as of August 31, 2020:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______________________________________________________________________________

(1)All references are to positions held with Fluor Corporation. All officers serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

Alan L. Boeckmann

Mr. Boeckmann has been Executive Chairman since 2019. Prior to his retirement in 2012, he previously served as non-executive Chairman of the company from 2011 to 2012 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the company from 2002 to 2011. Mr. Boeckmann first joined the company in 1974.

Joseph L. Brennan

Mr. Brennan has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2020. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Operations Controller in 2020, Senior Vice President and Segment Controller — Energy & Chemicals from 2018 to 2020 and Vice President and Segment Controller — Energy & Chemicals from 2016 to 2018 and as the general manager of the company's Southern California operations from 2013 to 2016. Mr. Brennan joined the Company in 1991.

Thomas P. D'Agostino

Mr. D'Agostino has been Group President, Government since 2017. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Sales —Government from 2015 to 2017 and Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Development — Government from 2013 to 2015. Mr. D'Agostino joined the company in 2013.

Taco de Haan

Mr. de Haan has been Group President, Diversified Services since 2017. Prior to that, he was Chief Executive Officer of Stork from October 2016 to March 2017 and Senior Vice President, Business Line President — Energy & Chemicals Europe, Africa and Middle East ("EAME") from 2014 to 2016. Mr. de Haan joined the company in 1995.

13
Stacy L. Dillow

Ms. Dillow has been Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since 2019. Prior to that, she was Head of Supply Chain Transformation, Southeast Asia and Australasia at Unilever, a consumer goods company, from 2018 to 2019. Prior to that, she was Senior Project Director — Energy & Chemicals at the company from 2014 to 2017. Ms. Dillow first joined the company in 1996.

Mark E. Fields

Mr. Fields has been Group President, Energy & Chemicals since 2019. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Energy & Chemicals Americas from 2017 to 2019 and Senior Vice President, Project Director — Energy & Chemicals from 2009 to 2017. Mr. Fields joined the company in 1981.

Garry W. Flowers

Mr. Flowers has been Executive Vice President, Construction, HSE & Risk since 2019. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Office of the CEO from 2018 to 2019 and Executive Vice President, Project Support Services from 2014 to 2018. Mr. Flowers joined the company in 1978.

Carlos M. Hernandez

Mr. Hernandez has been Chief Executive Officer since 2019. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary from 2014 to 2019. Mr. Hernandez joined the company in 2007.

Rick Koumouris

Mr. Koumouris has been Senior Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer since August 2020. Prior to that, he was Group President, Mining & Metals and Life Sciences & Advanced Manufacturing from 2017 to 2020 and Senior Vice President, Business Line President — Mining & Metals from 2007 to 2017. Mr. Koumouris joined the company in 1987.

John C. Regan

Mr. Regan has been Executive Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since June 2020. Prior to joining the Company, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alta Mesa Resources, Inc., an upstream exploration and production company, from 2019 to 2020, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Vine Oil and Gas LP and Brix Oil and Gas LP, private companies focused on natural gas acquisition, exploration and production, from 2015 to 2018. Alta Mesa Resources, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in September 2019.

John R. Reynolds

Mr. Reynolds has been Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since 2019 and Secretary since 2020. Prior to that, he was Vice President and Senior Managing General Counsel from 2017 to 2019 and Managing General Counsel from 2005 to 2017. Mr. Reynolds joined the company in 1985.

Terry W. Towle

Mr. Towle has been Group President, Infrastructure & Power since 2019. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Project Director — Infrastructure from 2015 to 2019 and Senior Vice President, Business Line President — Infrastructure from 2014 to 2015. Mr. Towle joined the company in 1985.

Available Information

Our website address is www.fluor.com. You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports on the “Investor Relations” portion of our website, under the heading “SEC Filings” filed under “Financial Information.” These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These reports, and any amendments to them, are also available at the Internet website of the SEC, http://www.sec.gov. We also use our investor relations website as a channel of distribution for important company information. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for e-mail alerts and RSS feeds. We also maintain various documents related to our corporate governance including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Board Committee Charters and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors on the “Sustainability” portion of our website under the heading “Corporate Governance Documents” filed under “Governance.”

14
Item 1A.Risk Factors