Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as described under the “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” that appears earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis does not address certain items in respect of the year ended December 31, 2017 in reliance on amendments to disclosure requirements adopted by the SEC in 2019. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for comparative discussions of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Executive Overview

We are a leading global provider of comprehensive PV solar energy solutions. We design, manufacture, and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology and also develop and sell PV solar power systems that primarily use the modules we manufacture. Additionally, we provide O&M services to system owners. We have substantial, ongoing R&D efforts focused on various technology innovations. We are the world’s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and one of the world’s largest PV solar module manufacturers.

Certain of our financial results and other key operational developments for the year ended December 31, 2019 include the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In September 2019, we announced our transition from an internal EPC service model in the United States to an external model, in which we expect to leverage the capabilities of third-party EPC services in providing power plant solutions to our systems segment customers. This transition is not expected to affect any projects currently under construction. The shift to an external EPC service model in the United States aligns with our typical model in international markets and is facilitated, in part, by our Series 6 module technology and its 

 50
improved BoS compatibility. See Note 21. “Segment and Geographical Information” to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our operating segments.

•Following an evaluation of the long-term sustainable cost structure, competitiveness, and risk-adjusted returns of our U.S. project development business, we have determined it is in the best interest of our stockholders to explore options for this business line. This exploration may result in, among other possibilities, a partnership with a third party who possesses complimentary competencies or a sale of all or a portion of our U.S. project development business. This exploration of options for our U.S. project development business is not subject to any definitive timetable and there can be no assurances that this process will result in any transaction.

•In January 2020, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) to settle a class action lawsuit filed in 2012 in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona (hereafter “Arizona District Court”) against the Company and certain of our current and former officers and directors. Pursuant to the MOU, we agreed to pay a total of $350 million to settle the claims brought on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company’s shares during a specified period, in exchange for mutual releases and a dismissal with prejudice of the complaint upon court approval of the settlement. The proposed settlement contains no admission of liability, wrongdoing, or responsibility by any of the parties.

Market Overview

The solar industry continues to be characterized by intense pricing competition, both at the module and system levels. In particular, module average selling prices in many global markets have declined in recent years and are expected to continue to decline to some degree in the future. In the aggregate, we believe manufacturers of solar cells and modules have significant installed production capacity, relative to global demand, and the ability for additional capacity expansion. We believe the solar industry may from time to time experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that such periods will continue to put pressure on pricing. Additionally, intense competition at the system level may result in an environment in which pricing falls rapidly, thereby further increasing demand for solar energy solutions but constraining the ability for project developers, and diversified module manufacturers to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. In light of such market realities, we are focusing on our strategies and points of differentiation, which include our advanced module technology, our manufacturing process, our diversified capabilities, our financial viability, and the sustainability advantage of our modules and systems.

Global solar markets continue to expand and develop, in part aided by demand elasticity resulting from declining industry average selling prices, both at the module and system levels, which have promoted the widespread adoption of solar energy. As a result of such market opportunities, we are expanding our manufacturing capacity while also developing and operating multiple solar projects around the world as we execute on our advanced-stage utility-scale project pipeline. We also continue to develop our early-to-mid-stage project pipeline and evaluate acquisitions of projects to further expand both our early-to-mid-stage and advanced-stage pipelines. See the tables under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Systems Project Pipeline” for additional information about projects within our advanced-stage pipeline. Although we expect a meaningful portion of our future consolidated net sales, operating income, and cash flows to be derived from such projects, we expect third-party module sales to have a more significant impact on our operating results as we continue to expand our manufacturing capacity and leverage the benefits of our Series 6 module technology.

Lower industry module and system pricing is expected to continue to contribute to diversification in global electricity generation and further demand for solar energy solutions as such solutions compete economically with traditional forms of energy generation. Over time, however, declining average selling prices may adversely affect our results of operations to the extent we have not already entered into contracts for future module or system sales. If competitors reduce pricing to levels below their costs; bid aggressively low prices for module sale agreements or PPAs; or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, our results of operations could be further adversely affected. In certain markets in California and elsewhere, an oversupply imbalance at the grid level may reduce short-

 51
to-medium term demand for new solar installations relative to prior years, lower PPA pricing, and lower margins on module and system sales to such markets. However, we believe the effects of such imbalance can be mitigated by modern solar power plants that offer a flexible operating profile, thereby promoting greater grid stability and enabling a higher penetration of solar energy. We continue to address these uncertainties, in part, by executing on our module technology improvements, continuing the development of key markets, partnering with grid operators and utility companies, and implementing certain other cost reduction initiatives.

We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules and developers of solar power projects. Solar module manufacturers compete with one another on price and on several module value attributes, including wattage (or conversion efficiency), energy yield, and reliability, and developers of systems compete on various factors such as net present value, return on equity, and LCOE. Many crystalline silicon cell and wafer manufacturers continue to transition from lower efficiency BSF multi-crystalline cells (the legacy technology against which we have generally competed in our markets) to higher efficiency PERC mono-crystalline cells at competitive cost structures. Additionally, while conventional solar modules, including the solar modules we produce, are monofacial, meaning their ability to produce energy is a function of direct and diffuse irradiance on their front side, certain manufacturers of mono-crystalline PERC modules are promoting bifacial modules that also capture diffuse irradiance on the back side of a module. The cost effective manufacture of bifacial PERC modules has been enabled, in part, by the expansion of inexpensive crystal growth and diamond wire saw capacity in China. Bifaciality compromises nameplate efficiency, but by converting both front and rear side irradiance, such technology may improve the overall energy production of a module relative to nameplate efficiency when applied in certain applications, which, after considering the incremental BoS and other costs, could potentially lower the overall LCOE of a system when compared to systems using conventional solar modules, including the modules we produce.

We believe we are among the lowest cost module manufacturers in the solar industry on a module cost per watt basis, based on publicly available information. This cost competitiveness allows us to compete favorably in markets where pricing for modules and systems is highly competitive. Our cost competitiveness is based in large part on our module wattage (or conversion efficiency), proprietary manufacturing technology (which enables us to produce a CdTe module in a matter of hours using a continuous and highly automated industrial manufacturing process, as opposed to a batch process), and our focus on operational excellence. In addition, our CdTe modules use approximately 1-2% of the amount of semiconductor material that is used to manufacture conventional crystalline silicon solar modules. The cost of polysilicon is a significant driver of the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules, and the timing and rate of change in the cost of silicon feedstock and polysilicon could lead to changes in solar module pricing levels. In recent years, polysilicon consumption per cell has been reduced through various initiatives, such as the adoption of diamond wire saw technology, which have contributed to declines in our relative manufacturing cost competitiveness over conventional crystalline silicon module manufacturers.

In terms of energy yield, in many climates our CdTe solar modules provide an energy production advantage over most monofacial crystalline silicon solar modules of equivalent efficiency rating. For example, our CdTe solar modules provide a superior temperature coefficient, which results in stronger system performance in typical high insolation climates as the majority of a system’s generation, on average, occurs when module temperatures are well above 25°C (standard test conditions). In addition, our CdTe solar modules provide a superior spectral response in humid environments where atmospheric moisture alters the solar spectrum relative to laboratory standards. Our CdTe solar modules also provide a better shading response than conventional crystalline silicon solar modules, which may lose up to three times as much power as CdTe solar modules when shading occurs. As a result of these and other factors, our PV solar modules typically produce more annual energy in real world field conditions than conventional modules with the same nameplate capacity.

While our modules and systems are generally competitive in cost, reliability, and performance attributes, there can be no guarantee such competitiveness will continue to exist in the future to the same extent or at all. Any declines in the competitiveness of our products could result in additional margin compression, further declines in the average selling prices of our modules and systems, erosion in our market share for modules and systems, and/or declines in overall net 

 52
sales. We continue to focus on enhancing the competitiveness of our solar modules and systems by accelerating progress along our module technology and cost reduction roadmaps.

Certain Trends and Uncertainties

We believe that our operations may be favorably or unfavorably impacted by the following trends and uncertainties that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussions of other risks that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

Our long-term strategic plans are focused on our goal to create long-term shareholder value through a balance of growth, profitability, and liquidity. In executing such plans, we are focusing on providing utility-scale PV solar energy solutions using our modules in key geographic markets that we believe have a compelling need for mass-scale PV electricity, including markets throughout the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, and certain other strategic markets. Additionally, we are focusing on opportunities in which our PV solar energy solutions can compete directly with traditional forms of energy generation on an LCOE or similar basis, or complement such generation offerings. Such opportunities include the retirement and replacement of fossil fuel-based generation resources with utility-scale PV solar energy solutions. For example, cumulative global retirements of coal generation plants are expected to approximate 900 GWDC  by 2040, representing a significant increase in the potential market for solar energy. 

This focus on our core module and utility-scale offerings exists within a current market environment that includes rooftop and distributed generation solar, particularly in the United States. While it is unclear how rooftop and distributed generation solar might impact our core utility-scale based offerings over the next several years, we believe that utility-scale solar will continue to be a compelling offering for companies with technology and cost leadership and will continue to represent an increasing portion of the overall electricity generation mix. However, our module offerings in certain international markets may be driven, in part, by future demand for rooftop and distributed generation solar solutions. 

Our ability to provide utility-scale offerings on economically attractive terms depends, in part, on market factors outside our control, such as interest rate fluctuations, domestic or international trade policies, and government support programs. Adverse changes in these factors could increase the cost of utility-scale systems, which could reduce demand for such systems and limit the number of potential buyers.

We closely evaluate and monitor the appropriate level of resources required as we pursue the most advantageous and cost effective projects and partnerships in our key markets. We have dedicated, and intend to continue to dedicate, significant capital and human resources to reduce the total installed cost of PV solar energy and to ensure that our solutions integrate well into the overall electricity ecosystem of each specific market. We expect that, over time, the majority of our consolidated net sales, operating income, and cash flows will come from solar offerings in the key geographic markets described above. The timing, execution, and financial impacts of our long-term strategic plans are subject to risks and uncertainties, as described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are focusing our resources in those markets and energy applications in which solar power can be a least-cost, best-fit energy solution, particularly in regions with significant current or projected electricity demand, relatively high existing electricity prices, strong demand for renewable energy generation, and high solar resources.

Creating or maintaining a market position in certain strategically targeted markets and energy applications also requires us to adapt to new and changing market conditions. For example, our offerings from time to time may need to be competitively priced at levels associated with minimal gross profit margins, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We expect the profitability associated with our various sales offerings to vary from one another over time, and possibly vary from our internal long-range profitability expectations and targets, depending on the market opportunity and the relative competitiveness of our offerings compared with other energy solutions, traditional or otherwise, that are available to potential customers. In addition, as we execute on our long-term strategic plans, we will continue to monitor and adapt to any changing dynamics in emerging technologies, such as commercially viable energy storage solutions, which are expected to further enable PV solar power systems to compete with traditional forms of 

 53
energy generation by shifting the delivery of energy generated by such systems to periods of greater demand. Storage solutions continue to evolve in terms of technology and cost, and cumulative global deployments of storage capacity are expected to exceed 900 GWDC  by 2040, representing a significant increase in the potential market for renewable energy. We will also continue to monitor and adapt to changing dynamics in the market set of potential buyers of solar projects. Market environments with few potential project buyers and a higher cost of capital would generally exert downward pressure on the potential revenue from the solar projects we are developing, whereas, conversely, market environments with many potential project buyers and a lower cost of capital would likely have a favorable impact on the potential revenue from such solar projects.

On occasion, we may temporarily own and operate certain systems with the intention to sell them at a later date. We may also enter into business arrangements with strategic partners that result in us temporarily retaining an ownership interest in the underlying systems projects we develop, supply modules to, or construct, potentially for a period of up to several years. In these situations, we may retain such ownership interests in a consolidated or unconsolidated separate entity. We may also elect to construct and temporarily retain ownership interests in partially contracted or uncontracted systems for which there is a partial or no PPA with an off-taker, such as a utility, but rather an intent to sell some portion of the electricity produced by the system on an open contract basis until the system is sold. Expected revenue from projects without a PPA for the full off-take of the system is subject to greater variability and uncertainty based on market factors and is typically lower than projects with a PPA for the full off-take of the system. Furthermore, all system pricing is effected by the pricing of energy to be sold on an open contract basis following the termination of the PPA (i.e., merchant pricing curves), and changes in market assumptions regarding future open contract sales may also result in significant variability and uncertainty in the value of our systems projects.

We continually evaluate forecasted global demand, competition, and our addressable market and seek to effectively balance manufacturing capacity with market demand and the nature and extent of our competition. During 2019, we commenced commercial production of Series 6 modules at our second manufacturing facility in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam and our manufacturing facility in Lake Township, Ohio, a short distance from our plant in Perrysburg, Ohio. These additional manufacturing plants, and any other potential investments to add or otherwise modify our existing manufacturing capacity in response to market demand and competition, may require significant internal and possibly external sources of capital, and may be subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” including those described under the headings “Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand, convert existing production facilities to support new product lines, decrease our manufacturing cost per watt, and, when necessary, continue to build new manufacturing plants over time in response to market demand, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties” and “If any future production lines are not built in line with committed schedules, it may adversely affect our future growth plans. If any future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers.”

Systems Project Pipeline

The following tables summarize, as of February 20, 2020, our approximately 1.3 GWAC advanced-stage project pipeline. The actual volume of modules installed in our projects will be greater than the project size in MWAC as module volumes required for a project are based upon MWDC, which will be greater than the MWAC size pursuant to a DC-AC ratio typically ranging from 1.1 to 1.4. Such ratio varies across different projects due to many factors, including PPA pricing and the location, design, and costs of the system. Projects are typically removed from our advanced-stage project pipeline tables below once we substantially complete construction of the project and after substantially all of the associated project revenue is recognized. A project, or a portion of a project, may also be removed from the tables below in the event a project is not able to be sold due to the changing economics of the project or other factors or we decide to temporarily own and operate, or retain interests in, a project based on strategic opportunities or market factors.

As part of our transition to an external EPC service model in the United States, we no longer expect to provide EPC services for the customer developed 51 MWAC Troy Solar project for which construction had not commenced. 

 54
Accordingly, we removed such project from the tables below as our arrangement with the customer now represents a third-party module sale.

Projects under Sales Agreements

The following table includes uncompleted sold projects, projects under sales contracts subject to conditions precedent, and EPC agreements:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Projects with Executed PPAs Not under Sales Agreements

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

——————————

(1)EDP Renewables and ConnectGen

(2)Contracted but not specified

(3)Approximately 70 MWAC of the plant’s capacity is contracted under various PPAs

(4)Chubu Electric Power Company – 38 MWAC and Hokuriku Electric Power Company – 17 MWAC  

(5)Gulbarga Electricity Supply Co. – 20 MWAC and Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Co. – 20 MWAC 

 55
Results of Operations

The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Segment Overview

We operate our business in two segments. Our modules segment involves the design, manufacture, and sale of CdTe solar modules to third parties, and our systems segment includes the development, construction, operation, maintenance, and sale of PV solar power systems, including any modules installed in such systems and any revenue from energy generated by such systems.

Net sales

Modules Business

We generally price and sell our solar modules on a per watt basis. During 2019, Cypress Creek Renewables, Longroad Energy, and NextEra Energy each accounted for more than 10% of our modules business net sales, and the majority of our solar modules were sold to integrators and operators of systems in the United States and France. Substantially all of our modules business net sales during 2019 were denominated in U.S. dollars and Euro. We recognize revenue for module sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of the modules to the customer, which typically occurs upon shipment or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts. The revenue recognition policies for module sales are further described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements.

 56
Systems Business

During 2019, EDP Renewables, ConnectGen, and Innergex Renewable Energy each accounted for more than 10% of our systems business net sales, and the majority of our systems business net sales were in the United States and Australia. Substantially all of our systems business net sales during 2019 were denominated in U.S. dollars and Australian dollars. We typically recognize revenue for sales of solar power systems using cost based input methods, which result in revenue being recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred compared to the total estimated costs for a given contract. We may also recognize revenue for the sale of a development project, which excludes EPC services, or for the sale of a completed system when we enter into the associated sales contract with the customer. The revenue recognition policies for our systems business are further described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements.

The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales from our modules segment increased by $958.1 million in 2019 primarily due to a 180% increase in the volume of watts sold and a 4% increase in the average selling price per watt. Net sales from our systems segment decreased by $139.0 million in 2019 primarily as a result of the sale of the Mashiko and certain India projects in 2018 and the completion of substantially all construction activities at the California Flats, Willow Springs, and various other projects in Florida in late 2018 and early 2019, partially offset by the sale of the Sun Streams, Sunshine Valley, and Beryl projects and ongoing construction activities at the Phoebe and GA Solar 4 projects in 2019.

Cost of sales

Modules Business

Our modules business cost of sales includes the cost of raw materials and components for manufacturing solar modules, such as glass, transparent conductive coatings, CdTe and other thin film semiconductors, laminate materials, connector assemblies, edge seal materials, and frames. In addition, our cost of sales includes direct labor for the manufacturing of solar modules and manufacturing overhead, such as engineering, equipment maintenance, quality and production control, and information technology. Our cost of sales also includes depreciation of manufacturing plant and equipment, facility-related expenses, environmental health and safety costs, and costs associated with shipping, warranties, and solar module collection and recycling (excluding accretion).

Systems Business

For our systems business, project-related costs include development costs (legal, consulting, transmission upgrade, interconnection, permitting, and other similar costs), EPC costs (consisting primarily of solar modules, inverters, electrical and mounting hardware, project management and engineering, and construction labor), and site specific costs.

The following table shows cost of sales by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 57
Cost of sales increased $662.0 million, or 36%, and decreased 0.4 percentage points as a percent of net sales when comparing 2019 with 2018. The increase in cost of sales was driven by a $44.5 million increase in our systems segment cost of sales primarily due to the mix of lower gross profit projects sold or under construction during the period. The increase in cost of sales was also driven by a $617.6 million increase in our modules segment cost of sales primarily as a result of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•a reduction to our product warranty liability of $80.0 million due to revised module return rates;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross profit

Gross profit may be affected by numerous factors, including the selling prices of our modules and systems, our manufacturing costs, project development costs, BoS costs, the capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities, and foreign exchange rates. Gross profit may also be affected by the mix of net sales from our modules and systems businesses.

The following table shows gross profit for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross profit increased 0.4 percentage points to 17.9% during 2019 from 17.5% during 2018 primarily as a result of higher gross profit on third-party module sales, improved utilization of our manufacturing facilities, and the reduction to our product warranty liability described above, partially offset by the mix of lower gross profit projects sold or under construction during the period, the settlement of a tax examination with the state of California in 2018, which affected our estimates of sales and use taxes due for certain projects, and the reduction to our module collection and recycling liability in 2018 described above.

Selling, general and administrative

Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, professional fees, insurance costs, and other business development and selling expenses.

The following table shows selling, general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expense in 2019 increased compared to 2018 primarily due to higher employee compensation expense, lower accretion expense in 2018 associated with the reduction in our module collection and recycling liability described above, and higher professional fees.

 58
Research and development

Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs; the cost of products, materials, and outside services used in our R&D activities; and depreciation and amortization expense associated with R&D specific facilities and equipment. We maintain a number of programs and activities to improve our technology and processes in order to enhance the performance and reduce the costs of our solar modules.

The following table shows research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and development expense in 2019 increased compared to 2018 primarily due to increased material and module testing costs and higher employee compensation expense.

Production start-up

Production start-up expense consists primarily of employee compensation and other costs associated with operating a production line before it is qualified for full production, including the cost of raw materials for solar modules run through the production line during the qualification phase and applicable facility related costs. Costs related to equipment upgrades and implementation of manufacturing process improvements are also included in production start-up expense as well as costs related to the selection of a new site, related legal and regulatory costs, and costs to maintain our plant replication program to the extent we cannot capitalize these expenditures. In general, we expect production start-up expense per production line to be higher when we build an entirely new manufacturing facility compared with the addition or replacement of production lines at an existing manufacturing facility, primarily due to the additional infrastructure investment required when building an entirely new facility.

The following table shows production start-up expense for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2019, we incurred production start-up expense at our new facility in Lake Township, Ohio. We also incurred production start-up expense at our second facility in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam in early 2019. During 2018, we incurred production start-up expense for the transition to Series 6 module manufacturing at our facilities in Kulim, Malaysia and Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. We also incurred production start-up expense for the transition to Series 6 module manufacturing at our facility in Perrysburg, Ohio in early 2018.

Litigation loss

The following table shows litigation loss for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In January 2020, we entered into an MOU to settle a class action lawsuit filed in 2012 in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona against the Company and certain of our current and former officers and directors. 

 59
Pursuant to the MOU, we agreed to pay a total of $350 million to settle the claims brought on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company’s shares during a specified period, in exchange for mutual releases and a dismissal with prejudice of the complaint upon court approval of the settlement. The proposed settlement contains no admission of liability, wrongdoing, or responsibility by any of the parties.

We are also party to a lawsuit filed in 2015 in the Arizona District Court by putative stockholders that opted out of the class action lawsuit described above. During 2019, we accrued $13 million of estimated losses for this action, which represents our best estimate of the lower bound of the costs to resolve this case. The ultimate amount of loss may be materially higher.

See Note 14. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters.

Restructuring and asset impairments

Restructuring and asset impairments consist of expenses incurred related to significant restructuring initiatives and includes any associated asset impairments, costs for employee termination benefits, costs for contract terminations and penalties, and other restructuring related costs.

The following table shows restructuring and asset impairments for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In November 2016, our board of directors approved a set of initiatives intended to accelerate our transition to Series 6 module manufacturing and restructure our operations. As part of these actions, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $41.8 million during 2017. In 2017, we also reversed a customs tax liability associated with a prior restructuring activity, which reduced our restructuring charges by $4.7 million during the period. See Note 4. “Restructuring and Asset Impairments” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these matters.

Foreign currency income (loss), net

Foreign currency income (loss), net consists of the net effect of gains and losses resulting from holding assets and liabilities and conducting transactions denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries’ functional currencies.

The following table shows foreign currency income (loss), net for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign currency income increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to lower costs associated with hedging activities related to our subsidiaries in Japan and India.

 60
Interest income

Interest income is earned on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash and investments. Interest income also includes interest earned from notes receivable and late customer payments.

The following table shows interest income for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest income during 2019 decreased compared to 2018 primarily due to lower average balances of cash, cash equivalents, and time deposits and lower interest rates associated with restricted investments, partially offset by higher interest rates on cash and cash equivalents.

Interest expense, net

Interest expense, net is primarily comprised of interest incurred on long-term debt, settlements of interest rate swap contracts, and changes in the fair value of interest rate swap contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 815. We may capitalize interest expense to our project assets or property, plant and equipment when such costs qualify for interest capitalization, which reduces the amount of net interest expense reported in any given period.

The following table shows interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense, net in 2019 was consistent with interest expense, net in 2018.

Other income, net

Other income, net is primarily comprised of miscellaneous items and realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and restricted investments.

The following table shows other income, net for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other income, net decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to lower realized gains from the sales of restricted investments, the impairment of a strategic investment, and net charges associated with certain letter of credit arrangements.

 61
Income tax benefit (expense)

Income tax expense or benefit, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, principally Australia, Japan, and Malaysia. Significant judgments and estimates are required to determine our consolidated income tax expense. The statutory federal corporate income tax rate in the United States is 21%, and the tax rates in Australia, Japan, and Malaysia are 30%, 30.6%, and 24%, respectively. In Malaysia, we have been granted a long-term tax holiday, scheduled to expire in 2027, pursuant to which substantially all of our income earned in Malaysia is exempt from income tax, conditional upon our continued compliance with certain employment and investment thresholds.

The following table shows income tax benefit (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions. The rate is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given period, but are not consistent from period to period. Income tax expense decreased by $8.9 million during 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to our pretax loss in the current period, partially offset by discrete tax expenses associated with filing tax returns in certain foreign jurisdictions.

Equity in earnings, net of tax

Equity in earnings, net of tax represents our proportionate share of the earnings or losses from equity method investments as well as any gains or losses on the sale or disposal of such investments.

The following table shows equity in earnings, net of tax for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity in earnings, net of tax decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to the sale of our ownership interests in 8point3 Operating Company, LLC (“OpCo”), which resulted in a gain of $40.3 million, net of tax in 2018. See Note 8. “Consolidated Balance Sheet Details” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

 62
Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of December 31, 2019, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flows from operating activities, contracts with customers for the future sale of solar modules, advanced-stage project pipeline, availability under our Revolving Credit Facility (considering the minimum liquidity covenant requirements therein), and access to the capital markets will be sufficient to meet our working capital, systems project investment, and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. We monitor our working capital to ensure we have adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally.

We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, our overall cost of capital, and expected cash requirements for operations, capital expenditures, and strategic discretionary spending. In the future, we may also engage in additional debt or equity financings, including project specific debt financings. We believe that when necessary, we will have adequate access to the capital markets, although our ability to raise capital on terms commercially acceptable to us could be constrained if there is insufficient lender or investor interest due to industry-wide or company-specific concerns. Such financings could result in increased debt service expenses, dilution to our existing stockholders, or restrictive covenants, which could limit our ability to pursue our strategic plans.

As of December 31, 2019, we had $2.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities compared to $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2018. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as of December 31, 2019 decreased primarily as a result of purchases of property, plant and equipment and operating expenditures associated with the initial ramp of certain Series 6 manufacturing lines. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, $0.9 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries and was primarily based in U.S. dollar, Euro, and Japanese yen denominated holdings.

We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. If certain international funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we may be required to accrue and pay certain U.S. and foreign taxes to repatriate such funds. We maintain the intent and ability to permanently reinvest our accumulated earnings outside the United States, with the exception of our subsidiaries in Canada and Germany. In addition, changes to foreign government banking regulations may restrict our ability to move funds among various jurisdictions under certain circumstances, which could negatively impact our access to capital, resulting in an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources.

Our systems business requires significant liquidity and is expected to continue to have significant liquidity requirements in the future. The net amount of our project assets and related portion of deferred revenue, which approximates our net capital investment in the development and construction of systems projects, was $324.8 million as of December 31, 2019. Solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of a site location and the commercial operation of a system, vary substantially and can take many years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles and strategic decisions to finance the development of certain projects using our working capital, we may need to make significant up-front investments of resources in advance of the receipt of any cash from the sale of such projects. Delays in construction or in completing the sale of our systems projects that we are self-financing may also impact our liquidity. In certain circumstances, we may need to finance construction costs exclusively using working capital, if project financing becomes unavailable due to market-wide, regional, or other concerns.

From time to time, we may develop projects in certain markets around the world where we may hold all or a significant portion of the equity in a project for several years. Given the duration of these investments and the currency risk relative to the U.S. dollar in some of these markets, we continue to explore local financing alternatives. Should these financing alternatives be unavailable or too cost prohibitive, we could be exposed to significant currency risk and our liquidity could be adversely impacted.

Additionally, we may elect to retain an ownership interest in certain systems projects after they become operational if we determine it would be of economic and strategic benefit to do so. If, for example, we cannot sell a systems project at economics that are attractive to us or potential customers are unwilling to assume the risks and rewards typical of 

 63
PV solar power system ownership, we may instead elect to temporarily own and operate such systems project until we can sell it on economically attractive terms. The decision to retain ownership of a system impacts our liquidity depending upon the size and cost of the project. As of December 31, 2019, we had $477.0 million of net PV solar power systems that had been placed in service, primarily in international markets. We have elected, and may in the future elect, to enter into temporary or long-term project financing to reduce the impact on our liquidity and working capital with regards to such projects and systems. We may also consider entering into tax equity or other arrangements with respect to ownership interests in certain of our projects, which could cause a portion of the economics of such projects to be realized over time.

The following additional considerations have impacted or may impact our liquidity in 2020 and beyond:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•As described above, in January 2020, we entered into an MOU to settle a class action lawsuit filed in the Arizona District Court. Pursuant to the MOU, among other things, we agreed to pay a total of $350 million to settle the claims in the lawsuit in exchange for mutual releases and dismissal with prejudice of the complaint upon court approval of the settlement. In February 2020, we subsequently entered into a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement (the “Settlement Agreement”) with certain named plaintiffs on terms and conditions that were consistent with the MOU. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, among other things, (i) we contributed $350 million in cash to a settlement fund that will be used to pay all settlement fees and expenses, attorneys’ fees and expenses, and cash payments to members of the settlement class and (ii) the settlement class has agreed to release us, the other defendants named in the class action, and certain of their respective related parties from any and all claims concerning, based on, arising out of, or in connection with the class action. The Settlement Agreement contained no admission of liability, wrongdoing, or responsibility by any of the parties.

The settlement, including such payment and release described above, is subject to court approval. If the court preliminarily approves the settlement, members of the settlement class will be provided notice of, and an opportunity to object to, the settlement at a fairness hearing to be held by the court to determine whether the settlement should be finally approved and whether the proposed order and final judgment should be entered. If the court approves the settlement and enters such order and final judgment, and such judgment is no longer subject to further appeal or other review, the settlement fund will be disbursed in accordance with a plan of allocation approved by the court and the release will be effective to all members of the settlement class.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 64
liquidity. Once solar modules and BoS parts are installed in a project, they are classified as either project assets, PV solar power systems, or cost of sales depending on whether the project is subject to a definitive sales contract and whether other revenue recognition criteria have been met. We also produce significant volumes of modules for sale directly to third-parties, which requires us to carry inventories at levels sufficient to satisfy the demand of our customers and the needs of their projects, which may also temporarily reduce our liquidity.

•We may commit significant working capital over the next several years to advance the construction of various U.S. systems projects or procure the associated modules or BoS parts, by specified dates, for such projects to qualify for certain federal investment tax credits. Among other requirements, such credits require projects to have commenced construction in 2019, which may have been achieved by certain qualifying procurement activities, to receive a 30% investment tax credit. Such credits will step down to 26% for projects that commence construction in 2020, and will further step down to 22% for projects that commence construction in 2021 and 10% for projects that commence construction thereafter.

•We may also commit working capital to acquire solar power projects in various stages of development, including advanced-stage projects with PPAs, and to continue developing those projects, as necessary. Depending upon the size and stage of development, the costs to acquire such solar power projects could be significant. When evaluating project acquisition opportunities, we consider both the strategic and financial benefits of any such acquisitions.

Cash Flows

The following table summarizes key cash flow activity for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during 2019 was primarily driven by higher cash proceeds from sales of systems projects, including the Sunshine Valley, Sun Streams, and California Flats projects, and advance payments received for sales of solar modules prior to the step down in the U.S. investment tax credit as discussed above. These increases were partially offset by operating expenditures associated with initial ramp of certain Series 6 manufacturing lines and expenditures for the construction of certain projects. 

Investing Activities

The decrease in net cash used in investing activities during 2019 was primarily due to higher net sales of marketable securities and restricted investments, partially offset by proceeds associated with the sale of our interests in 8point3 and its subsidiaries in 2018.

Financing Activities

The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities during 2019 was primarily the result of lower net proceeds from borrowings under project specific debt financings associated with the construction of certain projects in Australia, Japan, and India.

 65
Contractual Obligations

The following table presents the payments due by fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

——————————

(1)Includes estimated cash interest to be paid over the remaining terms of the underlying debt. Interest payments are based on fixed and floating rates as of December 31, 2019.

(2)Purchase obligations represent agreements to purchase goods or services, including open purchase orders and contracts with fixed volume commitments, that are noncancelable or cancelable with a significant penalty. Purchase obligations for our long-term supply agreements for the purchase of substrate glass and cover glass represent specified termination penalties, which are up to $430 million in the aggregate under the agreements. Our actual purchases under these supply agreements are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion of substrate glass and $500 million of cover glass.

(3)In connection with business or project acquisitions, we may agree to pay additional amounts to the selling parties upon achievement of certain milestones. See Note 14. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

(4)Transition tax obligations represent estimated payments for U.S. federal taxes associated with accumulated earnings and profits of our foreign corporate subsidiaries. See Note 18. “Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements for further information.

(5)Includes expected letter of credit fees and unused revolver fees.

We have excluded $72.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits from the amounts presented above as the timing of such obligations is uncertain.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2019, we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance related instruments and operating leases, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. See Note 14. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for further information about our financial assurance related instruments.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 3. “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of recent accounting pronouncements.

 66
Critical Accounting Estimates

In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of reported assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Some of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment in the selection of the appropriate assumptions for making these estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. We base our judgments and estimates on our historical experience, our forecasts, and other available information as appropriate. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies that require the most significant judgment and estimates include the following:

Revenue Recognition – Solar Power System Sales and/or EPC Services. We generally recognize revenue for sales of solar power systems and/or EPC services over time as our performance creates or enhances an energy generation asset controlled by the customer. Furthermore, the sale of a solar power system combined with EPC services represents a single performance obligation for the development and construction of a single generation asset. For such arrangements, we recognize revenue and gross profit as work is performed using cost based input methods, through which we determine our progress toward contract completion based on the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs (including solar module costs) of the contract. Such revenue recognition is also dependent, in part, on our customers’ commitment to perform their obligations under the contract, which is typically measured through the receipt of cash deposits or other forms of financial security issued by creditworthy financial institutions or parent entities. For sales of solar power systems in which we obtain an interest in the project sold to the customer, we recognize all of the revenue for the consideration received, including the fair value of the noncontrolling interest we obtained, and defer any profit associated with the interest obtained through “Equity in earnings, net of tax.” We may also recognize revenue for the sale of a solar power system after it has been completed due to the timing of when we enter into the associated sales contract with the customer.

Estimating the fair value of a noncontrolling interest we obtain begins with the valuation of the entire solar project (i.e., solar power system) being sold to the customer. Such valuation generally uses an income based valuation technique in which relevant cash flows are discounted to estimate the expected economic earnings capacity of the project. Typical factors considered in a project’s valuation include expected energy generation, the duration and pricing of the PPA, the pricing of energy to be sold on an open contract basis following the termination of the PPA (i.e., merchant pricing curves), other off-take agreements, the useful life of the system, tax attributes such as accelerated depreciation and tax credits, sales of renewable energy certificates, interconnection rights, operating agreements, and the cost of capital. Once the overall project valuation is agreed upon with the customer, we determine the relative value related to our specific ownership interests conveyed through the transaction agreements, including the membership interest purchase and sale agreement and the limited liability company agreement (or equivalent) of the project or its holding company. 

Cost based input methods of revenue recognition are considered a faithful depiction of our efforts to satisfy long-term construction contracts and therefore reflect the transfer of goods to a customer under such contracts. Costs incurred that do not contribute to satisfying our performance obligations (“inefficient costs”) are excluded from our input methods of revenue recognition as the amounts are not reflective of our transferring control of the system to the customer. Costs incurred toward contract completion may include costs associated with solar modules, direct materials, labor, subcontractors, and other indirect costs related to contract performance. We recognize solar module and direct material costs as incurred when such items have been installed in a system.

Cost based input methods of revenue recognition require us to make estimates of net contract revenues and costs to complete our projects. In making such estimates, significant judgment is required to evaluate assumptions related to the amount of net contract revenues, including the impact of any performance incentives, liquidated damages, and other payments to customers. Significant judgment is also required to evaluate assumptions related to the costs to complete our projects, including materials, labor, contingencies, and other system costs. If the estimated total costs on any contract, 

 67
including any inefficient costs, are greater than the net contract revenues, we recognize the entire estimated loss in the period the loss becomes known. The cumulative effect of revisions to estimates related to net contract revenues or costs to complete contracts are recorded in the period in which the revisions to estimates are identified and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The effect of the changes on future periods are recognized as if the revised estimates had been used since revenue was initially recognized under the contract. Such revisions could occur in any reporting period, and the effects may be material depending on the size of the contracts or the changes in estimates.

As part of our solar power system sales, we conduct performance testing of a system prior to substantial completion to confirm the system meets its operational and capacity expectations noted in the EPC agreement. In addition, we may provide an energy performance test during the first or second year of a system’s operation to demonstrate that the actual energy generation for the applicable period meets or exceeds the modeled energy expectation, after certain adjustments. These tests are based on meteorological, energy, and equipment performance data measured at the system’s location as well as certain projections of such data over the remaining measurement period. In certain instances, a bonus payment may be received at the end of the applicable test period if the system performs above a specified level. Conversely, if there is an underperformance event with regards to these tests, we may incur liquidated damages as a percentage of the EPC contract price. Such performance guarantees represent a form of variable consideration and are estimated at contract inception at their most likely amount and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional performance data becomes available and only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of any incremental revenue will not occur.

Revenue Recognition – Operations and Maintenance. We recognize revenue for standard, recurring O&M services over time as customers receive and consume the benefits of such services. Costs of O&M services are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. As part of our O&M service offerings, we typically offer an effective availability guarantee, which stipulates that a system will be available to generate a certain percentage of total possible energy during a specific period after adjusting for factors outside our control as the service provider. These tests are based on meteorological, energy, and equipment performance data measured at the system’s location as well as certain projections of such data over the remaining measurement period. If system availability exceeds a contractual threshold, we may receive a bonus payment, or if system availability falls below a separate threshold, we may incur liquidated damages for certain lost energy under the PPA. Such bonuses or liquidated damages represent a form of variable consideration and are estimated and recognized over time as customers receive and consume the benefits of the O&M services.

Accrued Solar Module Collection and Recycling Liability. When applicable, we recognize expense at the time of sale for the estimated cost of our obligations to collect and recycle solar modules covered by our solar module collection and recycling program. We estimate the cost of our collection and recycling obligations based on the present value of the expected probability-weighted future cost of collecting and recycling the solar modules, which includes estimates for the cost of packaging materials; the cost of freight from the solar module installation sites to a recycling center; material, labor, and capital costs; the scale of recycling centers; and an estimated third-party profit margin and return on risk for collection and recycling services. We base these estimates on (i) our experience collecting and recycling our solar modules, (ii) the expected timing of when our solar modules will be returned for recycling, and (iii) the expected economic factors at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled. In the periods between the time of sale and the related settlement of the collection and recycling obligation, we accrete the carrying amount of the associated liability by applying the discount rate used for its initial measurement. We periodically review our estimates of expected future recycling costs and may adjust our liability accordingly.

Product Warranties. We provide a limited PV solar module warranty covering defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for approximately 10 years. We also typically warrant that modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by 0.5% every year thereafter throughout the approximate 25-year limited power output warranty period. 

As an alternative form of our standard limited module power output warranty, we also offer an aggregated or system-level limited module performance warranty. This system-level limited module performance warranty is designed for 

 68
utility-scale systems and provides 25-year system-level energy degradation protection. This warranty represents a practical expedient to address the challenge of identifying, from the potential millions of modules installed in a utility-scale system, individual modules that may be performing below warranty thresholds by focusing on the aggregate energy generated by the system rather than the power output of individual modules. The system-level limited module performance warranty is typically calculated as a percentage of a system’s expected energy production, adjusted for certain actual site conditions, with the warranted level of performance declining each year in a linear fashion, but never falling below 80% during the term of the warranty. 

In addition to our limited solar module warranties described above, for PV solar power systems we construct, we typically provide limited warranties for defects in engineering design, installation, and BoS part workmanship for a period of one to two years following the substantial completion of a system or a block within the system.

When we recognize revenue for module or system sales, we accrue liabilities for the estimated future costs of meeting our limited warranty obligations. We make and revise these estimates based primarily on the number of our solar modules under warranty installed at customer locations, our historical experience with and projections of warranty claims, and our estimated per-module replacement costs. We also monitor our expected future module performance through certain quality and reliability testing and actual performance in certain field installation sites. In general, we expect the return rates for our newer series of module technology to be lower than our older series. We estimate that the return rate for such newer series of module technology will be less than 1%. 

Income Taxes. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. Such tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant taxing authorities. We make judgments and interpretations regarding the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes and also make estimates about when in the future certain items are expected to affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the relevant taxing authority upon examination or audit. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of assessments in each of our taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and future examinations, and we record tax liabilities as appropriate.

In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we calculate our income tax provision based on our interpretation of the tax laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our current tax obligations, assess uncertain tax positions, and assess temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. We must also assess the likelihood that each of our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization of any of our deferred tax assets is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a reporting period, we generally record a corresponding tax expense. Conversely, to the extent circumstances indicate that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary, that portion of the valuation allowance is reversed, which generally reduces our overall income tax expense.

We establish liabilities for potential additional taxes based on our assessment of the outcome of our tax positions. Once established, we adjust these liabilities when additional information becomes available or when an event occurs requiring an adjustment. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and the actual cost of a tax assessment, fine, or penalty may ultimately be materially different from our recorded liabilities, if any.

We continually explore initiatives to better align our tax and legal entity structure with the footprint of our global operations and recognize the tax impact of these initiatives, including changes in the assessment of uncertain tax positions, indefinite reinvestment exception assertions, and the realizability of deferred tax assets, in the period when we believe all necessary internal and external approvals associated with such initiatives have been obtained, or when the initiatives are materially complete.

 69
Asset Impairments. We assess long-lived assets classified as “held and used,” including our property, plant and equipment; project assets; PV solar power systems; and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances arise, including consideration of technological obsolescence, that may indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and these assessments require significant judgment in determining whether such events or changes have occurred. Relevant considerations may include a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset; a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition; a significant adverse change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset; an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset; a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of such losses or a projection of future losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset; or a current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities, and we must also exercise judgment in assessing such groupings and levels.

When impairment indicators are present, we compare undiscounted future cash flows, including the eventual disposition of the asset group at market value, to the asset group’s carrying value to determine if the asset group is recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted cash flows for the asset group, (ii) third-party valuations, and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market value for such assets. If the fair value of an asset group is determined to be less than its carrying value, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and such projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized.

 70
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk