Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

Overview 

Frontier Communications Corporation (Frontier) is a provider of communications services in the United States, with approximately 4.1 million customers, 3.5 million broadband subscribers and 18,300 employees, operating in 29 states. We offer a broad portfolio of communications services for consumer and commercial customers. These services which include data and internet services, video services, voice services, access services, and advanced hardware and network solutions, are offered on either a standalone basis or in a bundled package, depending on each customer’s needs. 

In May 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our operations and associated assets in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana (Northwest Operations) for $1,352 million, subject to certain closing adjustments, including adjustments for working capital and certain pension and retiree medical liabilities. The sale is expected to close by the first half of 2020, subject to customary closing conditions. In connection with the sale we entered into a transition service agreement with the purchaser to provide various network and support services for a minimum of six months following the transaction closing. Revenues for the Northwest Operations represented approximately 7% of consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

During 2019, Frontier reported an operating loss of $4,873 million and a net loss of $5,911 million. This compares to operating income of $827 million and a net loss of $643 million reported in 2018. We have continued to experience net losses in customers (8% in 2019 compared to 10% in 2018), which have contributed to lower revenues and lower profitability. Our reduced profitability and lower outlook for the business resulted in $5,725 and $641 million of goodwill impairment charges during 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our results reflect $168 million of restructuring and other charges in 2019 (which included $41 million of charges related to advisors and consultants associated with the restructuring of our balance sheet, as well as $44 million associated with Pension and OPEB enhancements related to a voluntary separation plan implemented during the year), compared to $35 million for the preceding year. Our 2019 operating results also include a $446 million loss related to the planned sale our Northwest Operations described above. 

We are highly leveraged, and a substantial portion of our liquidity needs will arise from debt service on our outstanding indebtedness and from funding the costs of operations, working capital and capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2020, we believe our operating cash flows, existing cash balances, and cash proceeds from the sale of our Northwest Operations will be adequate to finance our working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, make required debt interest and principal payments, pay taxes and support our short-term and long-term operating strategies for the next twelve months. However, as discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to consummate the Restructuring (defined below) and to generate sufficient liquidity from the Restructuring to meet our obligations and operating needs. Our $850 million revolving credit facility is fully utilized as of the date of filing and our access to capital and debt markets may be limited. A number of factors, including but not limited to, losses of customers, pricing pressure from increased competition, lower subsidy and switched access revenues, and the impact of economic conditions may negatively affect our cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had $245 million and $327 million of long-term debt maturing in 2020 and 2021, respectively, excluding interest obligations. 

The sections below include tables that present customer counts, average monthly consumer revenue per customer (ARPC) and consumer customer churn. We define churn as the number of consumer customer deactivations during the month divided by the number of consumer customers at the beginning of the month and utilize the average of each monthly churn in the period. 

Management believes that consumer customer counts and average monthly revenue per customer are important factors in evaluating our consumer customer trends. Among the key services we provide to consumer customers are voice service, data service and video service. We continue to explore the potential to provide additional services to our customer base, with the objective of meeting all of our customers’ communications needs. 

33  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Recent Developments 

Restructuring 

The Company engaged in discussions with certain holders of the Company’s unsecured notes that executed confidentiality agreements with the Company (the Unsecured Noteholders) with respect to potential deleveraging or restructuring transactions from January 2020 until the expiration of such agreements and corresponding release of certain confidential information on March 27, 2020. These discussions have included negotiations of the terms and conditions of a financial restructuring (the Restructuring) of the existing debt of, existing equity interests in, and certain other obligations of the Company and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries (the Company Parties). The Restructuring is currently expected to be effected pursuant to a plan of reorganization (Plan) to be filed in cases commenced under chapter 11 (Chapter 11 Cases) of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the Bankruptcy Code). Although the Company continues to be open to all discussions with the Unsecured Noteholders regarding a potential Restructuring, there can be no assurance we will reach an agreement with the Unsecured Noteholders in a timely manner, on terms that are attractive to us, or at all. The Company expects to continue to provide quality service to its customers without interruption and work with its business partners as usual during the course of these discussions and any potential transaction. 

Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to consummate the Restructuring and to generate sufficient liquidity from the Restructuring to meet our obligations and operating needs. These factors, among others, create substantial doubt about Frontier’s ability to continue as a going concern. 

See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity,” “—(b) Liquidity and Capital Resources—Subsequent Events Related to the Restructuring” and Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Restructuring and the risks related thereto. Refer to “—Going Concern” and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and Note 9 for further detail of our debt obligations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

Going Concern 

In connection with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, we conducted an evaluation as to whether there were conditions and events, considered in the aggregate, which raised substantial doubt as to the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date of the issuance of the Consolidated Financial Statements. As reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $760 million and an accumulated deficit of $8,573 million as of December 31, 2019. The Company also had an operating loss of $4,873 million and a net loss of $5,911 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

As discussed above under “—Restructuring,” from January 2020 until March 27, 2020, the Company engaged in discussions with certain Unsecured Noteholders with respect to potential deleveraging or restructuring transactions. Although the Company continues to be open to all discussions with the Unsecured Noteholders regarding a potential Restructuring, there can be no assurance we will reach an agreement with the Unsecured Noteholders in a timely manner, on terms that are attractive to us, or at all. 

Furthermore, on March 16, 2020, we deferred making $322 million in scheduled interest payments due on certain of our senior notes and a 60-day grace period commenced under the indentures governing those notes. We elected to enter into the grace period in order to collaborate with our noteholders regarding the Restructuring. If we do not make these interest payments by May 15, 2020 or if we do not make any required principal payments required under the indentures governing our notes, an event of default would occur under the applicable indentures, which would give the trustee or the holders of at least 25% of principal amount the option to accelerate maturity of the principal, plus any accrued and unpaid interest on such notes. The Company has also elected to defer making scheduled interest payments due on April 1, 2020 with respect to certain of its debentures. 

The Company evaluated the impact of undertaking the Restructuring and the payment deferral described above on its ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of risks and uncertainties related to (i) the Company’s ability to obtain requisite support for the Restructuring from various stakeholders, (ii) the effects of disruption from the Restructuring making it more difficult to maintain business, (iii) financing and operational relationships and (iv) the limited liquidity to pay the principal balance of the deferred payment senior notes and debentures upon an event of default, together with the Company’s recurring losses from operations and accumulated deficit, substantial doubt exists regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. 

Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to consummate the Restructuring and to generate sufficient liquidity from the Restructuring to meet our obligations and operating needs. There can be no assurance that the Restructuring will occur or be successful. Additionally, we continue to focus on our initiatives to drive operational performance, invest in our fiber network, add talent to our organization and become a stronger partner to our residential and enterprise customers as we operate our business. If the Restructuring is unsuccessful, our cash position may not be sufficient to support our daily operations or initiatives. Although we expect that the successful consummation of the Restructuring will generate sufficient revenue and reduce costs to sustain operations, there can be no assurance that it will. 

34  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. See “—(b) Liquidity and Capital Resources,” “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity,” and Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Restructuring, our limited liquidity and the risks related thereto. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity—We have elected to defer making interest payments in respect of certain of our senior notes and debentures, which may lead to default under our debt arrangements and which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.” and “Item 9B. Other Information" for more information on the deferral of certain interest payments and the risks related thereto. 

 (a) Results of Operations     

2019 compared to 2018 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Customer Trends and Revenue Performance 

We provide service and product options in our consumer and commercial offerings in each of our markets. 

Consumer Customers 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, Frontier lost 313,000, or 8% of our consumer customers compared to 337,000, or 8% in 2018. As of December 31, 2019, 56% of our consumer broadband customers also subscribed to at least one other service offering. We lost 5% of our consumer broadband subscribers, primarily to competitors offering more attractive pricing or higher speeds. We experienced a 20% decline in our video subscribers primarily as a result of customers increasingly opting for other video services including Over the Top, in lieu of traditional video services. We also shifted our focus away from the acquisition of higher cost video customers. During 2019, we lost voice subscribers as a result customers choosing alternative voice products and reduced attachment to broadband services. 

Our average monthly consumer customer churn was 2.07% for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 1.97% for 2018. The consolidated average monthly consumer revenue per customer (consumer ARPC) increased by $2.44 or 3% to $88.70 during 2019 compared to the prior year. The overall increase in consumer ARPC is primarily a result of consumer, broadband, and video pricing initiatives that were implemented in 2018. 

35  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Commercial Customers 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, Frontier lost 40,000, or 10% of our commercial customers as compared to 42,000, or 9%, in 2018. Small business customers, whose characteristics are similar to our consumer customers, comprised 91% of the loss. Losses of our larger customers are driven by customer movement to our competitors who offer more established solutions and higher-speed services. 

REVENUE 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Includes $70 million and $73 million of lease revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.     

We generate revenues primarily through either a monthly recurring fee or a fee based on usage, and revenue recognition is not dependent upon significant judgments by management, with the exception of a determination of the provision for uncollectible amounts. 

The 5% decrease in consumer customer revenue was primarily due to the 8% decline in consumer customers combined with decreased other data service revenue, and partially offset by higher consumer ARPC. Despite the customer losses, consumer broadband revenue has increased as compared to 2018. 

The 7% decrease in commercial customer revenue was primarily driven by a 8% reduction in wholesale revenues which comprise approximately 51% of our commercial revenues. The decline in wholesale revenues is primarily a result of rate declines for our network access services. Our SME revenues that comprise the remaining commercial revenue decreased 6% primarily as a result of a 10% decline in small business customers in 2019. 

Subsidy revenue, which is primarily comprised of CAF Phase II subsidies, decreased $14 million, or 4% during 2019. This decrease was the result of scheduled reductions in funding levels. 

We categorize our products, services, and other revenues into the following five categories: 

Data and Internet services 

Data and internet services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 decreased 3% as compared with 2018. Broadband and data services revenues comprise 61% or $2,306 million of total Data and internet services revenue, while network access revenues comprise 39% or $1,450 million. Network access revenues include our data transmission services to high volume commercial customers and other carriers with dedicated high capacity circuits including services to wireless providers (“wireless backhaul”). 

Broadband and data services revenue decreased by $24 million, or 1%, primarily driven by a loss of SME customers combined with decreased other data services revenue. The decline was partially offset by an increase in broadband revenues. Network access revenues declined $93 million, or 6%, due to the migration of our carrier customers from legacy technology circuits to lower priced ethernet circuits. 

36  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

We expect wireless data usage to continue to increase, which may drive the need for additional wireless backhaul capacity. Despite the need for additional capacity, in the near term, we anticipate that our overall wireless backhaul revenues (which comprise approximately 3% of consolidated total revenues) will continue to decline in 2020, as our carrier customers migrate to ethernet solutions at lower price points or migrate to our competitors. 

Voice services 

Voice services include traditional local and long-distance wireline services, data-based Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services, as well as voice messaging services offered to our consumer and commercial customers. Voice services also include the long-distance voice origination and termination services that we provide to our commercial customers and other carriers. 

The decrease of 8% in voice services revenue was primarily due to an 8% net loss in consumer customers and a 10% net loss in commercial customers, combined with a reduction in voice services being bundled with broadband services. 

Video services 

Video services include revenues generated from services provided directly to consumer customers through the FiOS video and Vantage video brands, and through Dish satellite TV services. 

The decrease of 7% in video services revenue was primarily due to 21% net loss in FiOS and Vantage terrestrial video customers, partially offset by price increases. 

Other 

Other customer revenue includes switched access revenue and sales of CPE to our business customers as well as directory services. Switched access revenue includes revenues derived from allowing other carriers to use our network to originate and/or terminate their local and long-distance voice traffic (“switched access”). These services are primarily billed on a minutes-of-use basis applying tariffed rates filed with the FCC or state agencies. 

The decrease of $67 million, or 12%, in other revenue was primarily driven by a decrease in switched access revenue due to the reduced rates mandated by the Universal Service Fund/Intercarrier Compensation Report and Order as well as a 17% reduction in minutes of use. Since we are a consumer of switched access services on other carriers, we also benefited from the lower mandated rates within network access expense. Lower CPE sales, lower service activation associated fees, and less directory revenue also contributed to the decline in other revenue. These declines were partially offset by lower provisions for uncollectibles and higher late payment fees. 

Subsidy 

Subsidy and other regulatory revenue includes revenues generated from cost subsidies from state and federal authorities, including the Connect America Fund Phase II. 

The decrease of $14 million in Subsidy and other regulatory revenue was primarily due to CAF II Program frozen support phasedown funding reductions. 

2019 OPERATING EXPENSES COMPARED TO 2018 

NETWORK ACCESS EXPENSE 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Network access expenses include access charges and other third-party costs directly attributable to connecting customer locations to our network, and video content costs. Such access charges and other third-party costs exclude network related expenses, depreciation and amortization, and employee related expenses. 

37  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

The decrease in network access expenses was primarily due to lower video content costs as a result of the decline in video customers and decreases in certain promotional costs. 

NETWORK RELATED EXPENSES 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Network related expenses include expenses associated with the delivery of services to customers and the operation and maintenance of our network, such as facility rent, utilities, maintenance and other costs, as well as salaries, wages and related benefits associated with personnel who are responsible for the delivery of services, and the operation and maintenance of our network. 

The decrease in network related expenses was primarily due to reduced compensation and certain benefits costs, including pension and OPEB expense (as discussed below), decreased network services cost, and lower costs as a result of our transformation initiatives to improve performance and reduce costs. 

SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A expenses) include the salaries, wages and related benefits and costs of corporate and sales personnel, travel, insurance, non-network related rent, advertising and other administrative expenses. 

The decrease in SG&A expenses was primarily driven by decreased outside services, warehousing and supplies cost, and lower compensation costs related to lower employee headcount, partially offset by increased facilities costs. 

Pension and OPEB costs 

Frontier allocates pension/OPEB expense, which includes only service costs, to network related expenses and SG&A expenses. Total consolidated pension and OPEB expense, excluding pension settlement costs and pension/OPEB special termination benefit enhancements, for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

38  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 decreased as compared to 2018. The decrease in depreciation expense was primarily driven by ceased depreciation (effective May 31, 2019) on property, plant, and equipment classified as assets held for sale in connection with the planned sale of our Northwest Operations. The decrease in amortization expense was primarily driven by the accelerated method of amortization related to customer bases acquired in 2010, 2014 and 2016. 

GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT 

We recorded goodwill impairments totaling $5,725 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The impairment in the second and third quarters of 2019 reflected a lower enterprise valuation driven by lower profitability, as well as a reduction in the applicable market multiple from 5.3x EBITDA at December 31, 2018 to the 4.4x EBITDA utilized during our quantitative assessments in 2019. This reflected, among other things, pressures on our business resulting in the continued deterioration in revenue, challenges in achieving improvements in revenue and customer trends under our transformation initiative, the long-term sustainability of our capital structure, and the lower outlook of our industry as a whole. 

We recorded goodwill impairments totaling $641 million for year ended December 31, 2018. The driver for the impairment in the third quarter of 2018 was a reduction in our profitability and utilized EBITDA estimate, which when applied to our market multiple resulted in a lower enterprise valuation. During the fourth quarter of 2018, the impairment was largely driven by a lower enterprise valuation resulting from a reduction in applicable market multiple from 5.5x to 5.3x reflecting the lower outlook for our industry as a whole. 

LOSS ON PLANNED DISPOSAL OF NORTHWEST OPERATIONS 

As a result of our evaluation of recoverability of the carrying value of the assets and liabilities held for sale relative to the agreed upon sales price, adjusted for costs to sell, we recorded a loss on planned disposal of our Northwest Operations of $446 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. 

RESTRUCTURING COSTS AND OTHER CHARGES 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 NM - Not meaningful     

Restructuring costs and other charges consist of expenses related to changes in the composition of our business, including workforce reductions, transformation initiatives, other restructuring expenses, and corresponding changes to retirement plans resulting from a voluntary severance program. 

In 2018, Frontier launched a strategic transformation program with the aim of re-positioning the Company to be better able to react to current and future business and operational challenges and to create long-term sustainable value. This program was reduced in scope and largely completed during the first half of 2019. 

The $168 million in restructuring costs and other charges is comprised of $44 million in pension/OPEB special termination benefit enhancements related to a voluntary severance program, $46 million in costs related to transformation initiatives, $38 million in severance expense, and $40 million in consulting and advisory costs related to our balance sheet restructuring activities. 

39  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

OTHER NON-OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 NM - Not meaningful     

Investment and other income, net 

The decrease in Investment and other income, net was primarily driven by an increase in non-operating pension and OPEB costs of $42 million in 2019 compared to income of $10 million in 2018. 

Pension settlement costs 

Frontier recognized non-cash settlement charges of $57 million and $41 million during 2019 and 2018, respectively. The non-cash charge accelerated the recognition of a portion of the previously unrecognized actuarial losses in the pension plan. 

Gain (Loss) on early extinguishment of debt and debt exchanges 

In 2019, Frontier recorded a loss on the early extinguishment of debt primarily driven by the write-off of unamortized original issuance costs that were retired along with the Term Loan A and the 2016 CoBank Credit Agreement. In 2018, Frontier recorded a gain on the early extinguishment of debt primarily due to discounts received on the retirement of certain notes, slightly offset by premiums paid to retire certain notes and write-off of unamortized original issuance costs. 

Interest expense 

Interest expense remained relatively flat as compared to 2018. Our composite average borrowing rate as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 were 8.72% and 8.59%, respectively. 

Income tax benefit 

For the year ended December 31, 2019, Frontier recorded income tax benefit of $(611) million on the pretax loss of $(6,522) million. The tax benefit was primarily driven by the tax impact of the goodwill impairment partially offset by recording a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. The effective tax rates on our pretax loss for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were 9.4% and 8.8%, respectively. 

Basic and diluted net loss attributable to Frontier common shareholders 

Net loss attributable to Frontier common shareholders for 2019 was a net loss of $(5,911) million, or $(56.80) per share, as compared to a net loss of $(750) million, or $(8.37) per share, in 2018. For 2019, the increase in net loss was primarily driven by the $5,725 million goodwill impairment charge, a decrease in revenues of $504 million, and a loss on disposal of $446 million, partially offset by decreased Network related, Selling, general, and administrative, and other operating expenses. 

The comparison of our operating results and financial condition for the fiscal years ended 2018 and 2017 can be found in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 

 (b) Liquidity and Capital Resources     

Historically, our principal liquidity requirements have been to maintain and expand our business, pay principal and interest obligations on the Term Loan B (as defined herein), Revolver (as defined herein), the notes and other expenses, and for capital expenditures to replace, upgrade, expand and improve our networks and infrastructure, to integrate acquired businesses and to separate assets and systems for sale. 

Our Term Loan B and Revolver are scheduled to mature on June 15, 2024 and February 27, 2024, respectively, and our first lien notes and second lien notes are scheduled to mature on April 1, 2027 and April 1, 2026, respectively. Our senior notes and debentures are scheduled to mature on dates ranging from April 15, 2020 to October 1, 2046. However, pursuant to the likely terms of the Restructuring described in “—Subsequent Events Related to the Restructuring,” our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to consummate the Restructuring and to generate sufficient liquidity from the Restructuring to meet our obligations and operating needs. These factors, together with the Company’s recurring losses from operations and accumulated deficit, create substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 

40  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Analysis of Cash Flows 

As of December 31, 2019, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents aggregating $760 million. Our primary source of funds during 2019 was cash on hand, cash generated from operations, cash received from issuance of our First Lien Notes, and borrowings on our Revolver. In 2019, we used cash flow from operations, cash on hand, and borrowings to principally fund all of our cash investing and financing activities, which were primarily capital expenditures and debt repayments. 

At December 31, 2019, we had a working capital surplus of $233 million, as compared to a working capital deficit of $1,231 million at December 31, 2018. The primary driver for the working capital surplus as of year-end was the reclassification of certain assets and liabilities associated with our Northwest Operations from non-current to current as a result of held for sale designation. 

Cash Flows provided from Operating Activities 

Net cash provided from operating activities decreased $304 million, or 17%, to $1,508 million in 2019 as compared to 2018. The overall decrease in operating cash flows was primarily attributable to decreased profitability. 

We paid $4 million net cash taxes in each of 2019 and 2018, compared to net cash refunds of $51 million in 2017. 

Cash Flows used by Investing Activities 

Capital Expenditures 

In 2019, 2018 and 2017, our capital expenditures were, $1,226 million, $1,192 million and $1,188 million (including $34 million of integration-related capital expenditures in 2017 associated with the CTF Acquisition), respectively. During 2019, capital expenditures of $8 million related to the separation of assets and systems in preparation for the sale of assets related to the Northwest Operations. 

Cash Flows used by and provided from Financing Activities 

Proceeds from Debt Borrowings 

During 2019, 2018 and 2017, proceeds from long-term debt borrowings were $1,650 million, $1,840 million and $1,500 million, respectively, consisting of senior secured debt. In addition, we had net borrowings of $474 million and $275 million, respectively, on our Revolver (as defined below) during 2019 and 2018. Refer to Note 9 for details of the specific transactions. 

Debt Reduction 

During 2019, 2018 and 2017, we retired an aggregate principal amount of $2,483 million, $2,578 million and $1,815 million, respectively, consisting of $348 million, $2,198 million and $1,655 million, respectively, of senior unsecured debt and $2,134 million, $380 million and $159 million, respectively, of secured debt (inclusive of periodic repayments of our revolver). 

Subject to limitations contained in our indentures and credit facilities, we may from time to time make repurchases of our debt in the open market, through tender offers, by exercising rights to call or in privately negotiated transactions. We may also refinance or restructure existing debt or exchange existing debt for newly issued debt obligations or equity securities. The amount of debt that may be repurchased, restructured or otherwise retired, if any, would be decided upon at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on market conditions, trading levels of the Company’s debt from time to time, the Company’s cash position and other considerations. 

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (Series A) 

On June 29, 2018, pursuant to the provisions of Frontier’s Certificate of Designations governing our 11.25% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $0.01 per share (the “Series A Preferred Stock”), all outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock converted at a rate of 1.3333 common shares per share of preferred stock into an aggregate of approximately 25,529,000 (net of fractional shares) of the Company’s common stock. We issued cash in lieu of fractional shares of common stock. These payments were recorded as a reduction to Additional paid-in capital. On July 2, 2018, we paid the final dividend of $54 million to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred stock was issued in June 2015 when we completed a registered offering of 19.25 million preferred shares at an offering price of $100 per share. 

41  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Capital Resources 

We are highly leveraged, and a substantial portion of our liquidity needs will arise from debt service on our outstanding indebtedness and from funding the costs of operations, working capital and capital expenditures. Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operations, cash on hand and proceeds from debt borrowings, including issuances of long-term debt and our fully drawn $850 million of borrowing capacity under our Revolver (as reduced by any Standby Letters of Credit outstanding under the JPM Credit Agreement). As of our date of filing, we believe our operating cash flows and existing cash balances, including the full borrowing under our revolving credit facility, and cash proceeds from the sale of our Northwest Operations will be adequate to finance our working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, make required debt interest and principal payments, pay taxes and support our short-term and long-term operating strategies for the next twelve months. A number of factors, including but not limited to, losses of customers, pricing pressure from increased competition, lower subsidy and switched access revenues, and the impact of economic conditions may negatively affect our cash generated from operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had $245 million and $327 million of long-term debt maturing in 2020 and 2021, respectively, excluding interest obligations. Gross proceeds from the sale of the Northwest Operations is expected to be approximately $1,352 million, subject to certain closing adjustments, including adjustments for working capital and certain pension and retiree medical liabilities. 

Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities 

JP Morgan Credit Facilities 

On February 27, 2017, Frontier entered into a first amended and restated credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, pursuant to which Frontier combined its revolving credit agreement, dated as of June 2, 2014, and its term loan credit agreement, dated as of August 12, 2015. Under the JPM Credit Agreement (as amended to date, the JPM Credit Agreement), Frontier has a $1,740 million senior secured Term Loan B facility (the Term Loan B) maturing on June 15, 2024 and an $850 million secured revolving credit facility maturing on February 27, 2024 (the Revolver). The maturities of the Term Loan B and the Revolver, in each case if still outstanding, will be accelerated in the following circumstances: (i) if, 91 days before the maturity date of any series of Senior Notes maturing in 2020, 2023 and 2024, more than $500 million in principal amount remains outstanding on such series; or (ii) if, 91 days before the maturity date of the first series of Senior Notes maturing in 2021 or 2022, more than $500 million in principal amount remains outstanding, in the aggregate, on the two series of Senior Notes maturing in such year. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $227 million principal amount, in the aggregate, remains outstanding on the two series of Senior Notes maturing in 2020 and $309 million principal amount, in the aggregate, remains outstanding on the two series of Senior Notes maturing in 2021. 

The determination of interest rates for the Term Loan B and Revolver under the JPM Credit Agreement is based on margins over the Base Rate (as defined in the JPM Credit Agreement) or over LIBOR, at the election of Frontier. Interest rate margins on the Revolver (ranging from 1.00% to 2.00% for Base Rate borrowings and 2.00% to 3.00% for LIBOR borrowings) are subject to adjustment based on Frontier’s Leverage Ratio (as defined in the JPM Credit Agreement). The interest rate on the Revolver as of December 31, 2019 was LIBOR plus 3.00%. Interest rate margins on the Term Loan B (2.75% for Base Rate borrowings and 3.75% for LIBOR borrowings) are not subject to adjustment. The security package under the JPM Credit Agreement includes pledges of the equity interests in certain Frontier subsidiaries and guarantees by certain Frontier subsidiaries. 

As of December 31, 2019, Frontier had borrowings of $749 million outstanding under the Revolver (with letters of credit issued under the Revolver totaling an additional $101 million). In July 2019, a $20 million Letter of Credit issued under the Bank of Tokyo LC agreement was replaced by a Letter of Credit issued under the Revolver. 

On March 15, 2019, Frontier amended the JPM Credit Agreement to, among other things, extend the maturity date of the Revolver from February 27, 2022 to February 27, 2024 (subject to springing maturity to any tranche of our existing debt with an aggregate outstanding principal amount in excess of $500 million), increase the interest rate applicable to loans under the Revolver by 0.25% and make certain modifications to the debt and restricted payment covenants. 

Frontier also had a $1,625 million senior secured Term Loan A facility (the Term Loan A) under the JPM Credit Agreement which was fully repaid on March 15, 2019, as described below under “New Debt Issuances and Debt Reductions.” 

42  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

On January 25, 2018, Frontier amended the JPM Credit Agreement to, among other things, expand the security package to include the interests of certain subsidiaries previously not pledged and replace the leverage ratio maintenance test with a first lien leverage ratio maintenance test. On July 3, 2018, Frontier further amended the JPM Credit Agreement to, among other things, replace certain operating subsidiary equity pledges with pledges of the equity interest of certain direct subsidiaries of Frontier. 

Repaid CoBank Credit Facilities 

Frontier had a $315 million senior term loan facility drawn in October 2016 (the 2016 CoBank Credit Agreement) with CoBank, ACB, as administrative agent, lead arranger and a lender, and the other lenders party thereto, which was repaid in full on March 15, 2019. Frontier had a separate $350 million senior term loan facility drawn in 2014 (the 2014 CoBank Credit Agreement) with CoBank which was repaid in full on July 3, 2018. Details of both transactions are described in Note 9 under “New Debt Issuances and Debt Reductions.” We refer to the 2014 CoBank Credit Agreement and the 2016 CoBank Credit Agreement collectively as the CoBank Credit Agreements. 

Letters of Credit Facility 

Frontier has a Continuing Agreement for Standby Letters of Credit with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch (the LC Agreement). Frontier can also issue letters of credit under the Revolver up to a maximum of $134 million. As of December 31, 2019, $50 million and $101 million of undrawn Standby Letters of Credit had been issued under the LC Agreement and Revolver respectively. Letters of credit under the LC Agreement are secured by a security package identical to those contained in the JPM Credit Amendment. 

Covenants 

The terms and conditions contained in our indentures and the JPM Credit Agreement include the timely payment of principal and interest when due, the maintenance of our corporate existence, keeping proper books and records in accordance with GAAP, restrictions on the incurrence of liens on our assets securing indebtedness and our subsidiaries’ assets, restrictions on the incurrence of indebtedness by our subsidiaries and restrictions on asset sales and transfers, mergers and other changes in corporate control subject to important qualifications and exceptions. 

Under the JPM Credit Agreement, Frontier is subject to a first lien net leverage ratio maintenance test which provides for a maximum first lien net leverage ratio of 1.50 to 1.00 as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, stepping down to 1.35 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2020 and thereafter. The covenants provide for junior lien capacity on any indebtedness permitted under the credit agreements, while limiting the incurrence of first lien debt. Additionally, the credit agreement prohibits us from using proceeds from our revolving credit facility to fund dividend payments if the undrawn amount under the Revolver is less than $250 million, and we may not pay dividends on our common stock in excess of $2.40 per share in any fiscal year. 

The indentures governing our secured notes and senior notes and debentures limit our ability to create liens on our assets securing indebtedness and our subsidiaries’ assets or merge or consolidate with other companies, our subsidiaries’ ability to borrow funds and to engage in change of control transactions, subject to important exceptions and qualifications. Our secured notes are guaranteed by each of our subsidiaries that guarantees the JPM Credit Agreement. In addition, the secured notes are secured on a first-priority basis and a second-priority basis, as applicable, by all the assets that secure our obligations under the JP Credit Agreement on a first-priority basis. 

As of December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our indentures and the JPM Credit Agreement. 

Shareholder Rights Plan 

On July 1, 2019, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to protect our NOLs from the effect of limitations imposed by federal and state tax rules following a change in the ownership of our stock. This plan was designed to deter an “ownership change” (as defined in IRC Section 382) from occurring, and therefore protect our ability to utilize our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards in the future. Pursuant to the shareholder rights plan, if a shareholder (or group of affiliated or associated persons) acquires beneficial ownership of 4.9 percent or more of the outstanding shares of Frontier’s common stock without prior approval of our Board of Directors or without meeting certain customary exceptions (such as a result of repurchases of stock by Frontier, dividends or distributions by Frontier or certain inadvertent actions by our stockholders), the rights would become exercisable and entitle shareholders (other than the acquiring shareholder or group) to purchase additional shares of Frontier at a significant discount and result in significant dilution in the economic interest and voting power of acquiring shareholder or group. For purposes of calculating percentage ownership under the plan, “outstanding shares” of common stock include all of the shares of common stock actually issued and outstanding. Beneficial ownership is determined as provided in the rights plan and generally includes, without limitation, any ownership of securities a person would be deemed to actually or constructively own for purposes of Section 382 of the IRC or the regulations promulgated thereunder. 

43  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

The plan is not meant to be an anti-takeover measure and our Board of Directors has established a procedure to consider requests to exempt the acquisition of our common stock from the rights plan, if such acquisition would not limit or impair the availability of our NOLs. Such determination will be made in the sole and absolute discretion of our Board of Directors, upon request by any person prior to the date upon which such person would otherwise become the beneficial owner of 4.9 percent or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, if our Board of Directors determines in good faith that a person has inadvertently become the beneficial owner of 4.9 percent or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and such person divests as promptly as practicable a sufficient number of shares of common stock so that such person beneficially owns less than 4.9 percent, then such person will not cause the rights under the plan to become exercisable. 

This summary description of the rights plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2019, by and between us and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as Rights Agent, filed as an exhibit to our Periodic Report on Form 8-K filed on July 1, 2019. 

Preferred Dividends 

Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock were entitled to receive cumulative dividends at an annual rate of 11.125% of the initial liquidation preference of $100 per share, or $11.125 per year per share. Series A Preferred Stock dividends of $107 million were paid during 2018. Each share of Series A Preferred Stock automatically converted into 1.3333 shares of our common stock on June 29, 2018. 

Subsequent Events Related to the Restructuring 

The Company engaged in discussions with the Unsecured Noteholders with respect to potential deleveraging or restructuring transactions from January 2020 until the expiration of such agreements and corresponding release of certain confidential information on March 27, 2020. These discussions have included negotiations of the terms and conditions of the Restructuring of the existing debt of, existing equity interests in, and certain other obligations of the Company Parties. The Restructuring is currently expected to be effected pursuant to a Plan to be filed in Chapter 11 Cases under the Bankruptcy Code. Although the Company continues to be open to all discussions with the Unsecured Noteholders regarding a potential Restructuring, there can be no assurance we will reach an agreement with the Unsecured Noteholders in a timely manner, on terms that are attractive to us, or at all. 

We have significant deferred tax assets, including NOLs, The impact of the Restructuring on the Company’s NOLs will depend on whether the Restructuring is structured as (i) a taxable disposition of substantially all of the assets and/or subsidiary stock of the Company, (ii) as a recapitalization of the Company, or (iii) some other alternative structure. If structured as a taxable disposition, we anticipate that NOLs of the Company (if any) remaining after the Restructuring will not be available to the Company after consummating the Restructuring. If structured as a recapitalization, we anticipate that the Company will experience an ownership change, and thus NOLs of the Company (if any) remaining after the Restructuring will be subject to limitation, such that the Company may not derive all of the benefits of any such remaining NOLs after consummating the Restructuring. 

See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity,” and Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Restructuring and the risks related thereto. See “—Shareholder Rights Plan” for a description of the shareholder rights plan our Board of Directors adopted to protect our NOLs from the effect of limitations imposed by federal and state tax rules following a change in the ownership of our stock. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and Note 9 for further detail of our debt obligations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We do not maintain any off-balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect upon our financial statements. 

44  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Future Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

A summary of our future contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2019 is as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Includes amounts due under the Revolver.     

Our outstanding performance letters of credit increased from $145 million to $151 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. 

On April 29, 2015, the FCC released its right of first refusal offer of support to price cap carriers under the CAF Phase II program, which is intended to provide long-term support for broadband in high-cost unserved or underserved areas. In June 2015, Frontier accepted the CAF Phase II offer, which provides for $332 million in annual support, including approximately $19 million in the four states of the Northwest Operations, through 2020 (since extended to 2021 under RDOF) to make available 10 Mbps downstream/1 Mbps upstream broadband service to approximately 774,000 households across certain of the 29 states where we now operate. 

To the extent we do not enable the required number of households with 10 Mbps downstream/1 Mbps upstream broadband service by the end of the CAF Phase II term, we will be required to return a portion of the funds previously received. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions. There are inherent uncertainties with respect to such estimates and assumptions; accordingly, it is possible that actual results could differ from those estimates and changes to estimates could occur in the near term. The estimates which require the most significant judgment are listed below. 

These critical accounting estimates have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. For a discussion of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based on our estimate of our ability to collect accounts receivable. Our estimates are based on assumptions and other considerations, including payment history, customer financial performance, carrier billing disputes and aging analysis. Our estimation process includes general and specific reserves and varies by customer category. In 2019 and 2018, we had no “critical estimates” related to bankruptcies of communications companies or any other significant customers. See Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. 

Indefinite-lived Intangibles 

Our indefinite-lived intangibles consist primarily of our trade name and goodwill, which were generated as a result of business combinations. We test for impairment of these assets annually as of December 31 or more frequently, whenever events occur, or facts and circumstances change that make it more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit has been reduced below its carrying amount. For this purpose, we have identified two reporting units, the first representing the Northwest Operations and the second representing the remaining Frontier Operations. Events that might indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, material negative changes in relationships with significant customers, and/or a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period. 

In connection with the planned sale of our Northwest Operations, allocated goodwill of $658 million has been reclassified to assets held for sale as of December 31, 2019. Due to recent events and conditions, as discussed below, interim goodwill impairment testing was performed during 2019, which resulted in the full impairment of the remaining $5,725 million of goodwill. 

We adopted ASU 2017-04 “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment” (“ASU 2017-04”) during the second quarter of 2017. In accordance with ASU 2017-04, our annual goodwill impairment test (and interim test if determined to be necessary) will consist of comparing the fair value of our reporting unit to its carrying value. To the extent that the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment will be recognized. 

45  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

For the purpose of our goodwill impairment test, we first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. If it is less, an additional quantitative evaluation must be performed. Our quantitative assessment consists of using a market multiples approach to determine fair value. Marketplace company comparisons and analyst reports within the wireline communications industry have historically supported a range of fair values of multiples between 4.4x and 6.5x annualized EBITDA (defined as operating income, net of acquisition and integration costs, pension/OPEB expense, pension settlement costs, stock-based compensation expense, goodwill impairment, storm-related costs, work stoppage costs, and restructuring costs and other charges, as well as depreciation and amortization). 

The decline in our stock price, our profitability, and the outlook of our business during the second and third quarter of 2019 were collectively a triggering event that required an impairment assessment in each of the second and third quarter of 2019. We recorded goodwill impairments totaling $5,725 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The impairments in the second and third quarter of 2019 reflected lower enterprise valuation driven by lower profitability, as well as a reduction in the applicable market multiple from 5.3x EBITDA at December 31, 2018 to the 4.4x EBITDA utilized during our quantitative assessments in 2019. This reflects, among other things, pressures on our business resulting in the continued deterioration in revenue, challenges in achieving improvements in revenue and customer trends, the long-term sustainability of our capital structure, and the lower outlook of our industry as a whole. 

The market multiples approach that we use incorporates significant estimates and assumptions related to the forecasted results for the remainder of the year, including revenues, expenses, and the achievement of other cost synergies. Our assessment includes many qualitative factors that require significant judgment. Alternative interpretations of these factors could have resulted in different conclusions regarding the need for, or size of, an impairment. 

Our indefinite lived trade name assets are evaluated for impairment annually similarly to goodwill. The annual process for assessing the carrying value of our trade name begins with a qualitative assessment of events and conditions similar to the assessment performed for goodwill. When events are identified, we evaluate the assets for impairment through comparison of the fair value of the trade name to the carrying value. The fair value of the trade name is determined using the relief from royalty method, which is a form of the income approach. As of December 31, 2019, no impairment was present for our trade name. 

Depreciation 

The calculation of depreciation expense is based upon the estimated useful lives of the underlying property, plant and equipment and identifiable finite-lived intangible assets. Depreciation expense is principally based on the composite group method for substantially all of our property, plant and equipment assets. The estimates for remaining lives of the various asset categories are determined annually, based on an independent study. Among other considerations, these studies include models that consider actual usage, replacement history and assumptions about technology evolution for each category of asset. The latest study was completed in the fourth quarter of 2019 and did not result in any significant changes in remaining lives for any of our asset categories. A one-year decrease in the estimated useful lives of our property, plant and equipment would result in an increase of approximately $155 million to depreciation expense. 

See Notes 6 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. 

Asset Impairments 

We review long-lived assets to be held and used, including customer lists and long-lived assets to be disposed of for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. When triggering events are identified, recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Recoverability of assets held for sale is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the assets to their estimated fair market value. If any assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the estimated fair value. Also, we periodically reassess the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets to determine whether any changes are required. 

We considered whether the carrying values of finite-lived intangible assets and property plant and equipment may not be recoverable or whether the carrying value of certain finite-lived intangible assets were impaired, noting no impairment was present as of or for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

46  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits 

We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan covering a significant number of our current and former employees as well as other postretirement benefit plans that provide medical, dental, life insurance and other benefits for covered retired employees and their beneficiaries and covered dependents. As of December 31, 2019, the unfunded benefit obligation for these plans recorded on our consolidated balance sheet was $1,968 million, including $30 million classified as “Held for Sale”. During 2019, we contributed $166 million to these plans in cash and recorded $146 million of operating expense before capitalization, including $44 million of pension/OPEB special termination benefit enhancements, and $99 million of net non-operating expense, including $57 million of pension settlement costs. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent upon various actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. 

Our discount rate assumption is determined annually with assistance from our actuaries based on the pattern of expected future benefit payments and the prevailing rates available on long-term, high quality corporate bonds with durations approximate to that of our benefit obligation. As of December 31, 2019, and 2018, we utilized an estimation technique that is based upon a settlement model (Bond:Link) that permits us to closely match cash flows to the expected payments to participants. This rate can change from year-to-year based on market conditions that affect corporate bond yields. 

We are utilizing a discount rate of 3.40% as of December 31, 2019 for our qualified pension plan, compared to rates of 4.30% and 3.70% in 2018 and 2017, respectively. The discount rate for postretirement plans as of December 31, 2019 was a range of 3.40% to 3.50% compared to a range of 4.30% to 4.40% in 2018 and 3.70% to 3.80% in 2017. 

In the following table, we show the estimated sensitivity of our pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities to a 25 basis point change in the discount rate as of December 31, 2019: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption, we considered published surveys of expected market returns, 10 and 20 year actual returns of various major indices, and our own historical 5 year, 10 year and 20 year investment returns. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on an asset allocation assumption of 40% in long-duration fixed income securities, and 60% in equity securities and other investments. We review our asset allocation at least annually and make changes when considered appropriate. Our asset return assumption is made at the beginning of our fiscal year. In 2019, 2018 and 2017, our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was 7.50%. Our actual return on plan assets in 2019 was 23.34%. For 2020, we will assume a rate of return of 7.50%. Our pension plan assets are valued at fair value as of the measurement date. 

For additional information regarding our pension and other postretirement benefits (see Note 20 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 

Income Taxes 

We file a consolidated federal income tax return. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability method, deferred income taxes are recorded for the tax effect of temporary differences between the financial statement basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences are expected to reverse. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in governing law or review by taxing authorities. 

We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe that these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. If we determine that we are not able to realize a portion of our net deferred tax assets in the future, we would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would increase the provision for income taxes. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this report for additional information related to recent accounting pronouncements. 

47  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk