Item 1. Business     

Frontier Communications Corporation (Frontier) is a provider of communications services in the United States, with approximately 4.1 million customers, 3.5 million broadband subscribers and 18,300 employees, operating in 29 states. 

In May 2019, Frontier entered into a definitive agreement to sell its operations and associated assets in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana (Northwest Operations) for $1,352 million, subject to certain closing adjustments, including adjustments for working capital and certain pension and retiree medical liabilities. The sale is expected to close during the first half of 2020, subject to customary closing conditions. In connection with the sale, Frontier has entered into a transition services agreement with the purchaser to provide various network and support services for a minimum of six months following the transaction closing. Approximately 1,000 employees will transition upon the closing of the sale. Revenues for the Northwest Operations represented approximately 7% of consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

Frontier’s Service Territories 

(Service territories indicated in red below represent the Northwest Operations) 

Recent Developments 

Restructuring 

The Company engaged in discussions with certain holders of the Company’s unsecured notes that executed confidentiality agreements with the Company (the Unsecured Noteholders) with respect to potential deleveraging or restructuring transactions from January 2020 until the expiration of such agreements and corresponding release of certain confidential information on March 27, 2020. These discussions have included negotiations of the terms and conditions of a financial restructuring (the Restructuring) of the existing debt of, existing equity interests in, and certain other obligations of the Company and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries (the Company Parties). The Restructuring is currently expected to be effected pursuant to a plan of reorganization (Plan) to be filed in cases commenced under chapter 11 (Chapter 11 Cases) of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the Bankruptcy Code). Although the Company continues to be open to all discussions with the Unsecured Noteholders regarding a potential Restructuring, there can be no assurance we will reach an agreement with the Unsecured Noteholders in a timely manner, on terms that are attractive to us, or at all. The Company expects to continue to provide quality service to its customers without interruption and work with its business partners as usual during the course of these discussions and any potential transaction. 

2  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to consummate the Restructuring and to generate sufficient liquidity from the Restructuring to meet our obligations and operating needs. These factors, among others, create substantial doubt about Frontier’s ability to continue as a going concern. 

See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview” and “—(b) Liquidity and Capital Resources—Subsequent Events Related to the Restructuring” and Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Restructuring and the risks related thereto. Refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Recent Developments—Going Concern” and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and Note 9 for further detail of our debt obligations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

Deferral of Interest Payment to Holders of Certain Senior Unsecured Notes 

As of December 31, 2019, the Company had outstanding $55 million aggregate principal amount of 8.875% notes due 2020 (the 2020 notes), $2,188 million aggregate principal amount of 10.500% notes due 2022 (the 2022 notes), $3,600 million aggregate principal amount of 11.000% notes due 2025 (the 2025 notes) and $220 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% notes due 2021 (collectively with the 2020 notes, the 2022 notes and the 2025 notes, the deferred payment senior notes). 

On March 16, 2020, we deferred making $322 million in scheduled interest payments due on the deferred payment senior notes and a 60-day grace period commenced under the indentures governing the deferred payment senior notes. We elected to enter into the grace period in order to collaborate with certain Unsecured Noteholders regarding the Restructuring. 

The Company has also elected to defer making scheduled interest payments due on April 1, 2020 with respect to certain of its debentures. 

See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity—We have elected to defer making interest payments in respect of certain of our senior notes and debentures, which may lead to default under our debt arrangements and which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Recent Developments—Going Concern” and "Item 9B Other Information." 

Noncompliance with Nasdaq’s Minimum Bid Price Requirement 

On December 16, 2019, the Company was notified by The Nasdaq Stock Market (Nasdaq) that it was not in compliance with Nasdaq’s Listing Rule 5450(a)(1), as the minimum bid price of our common stock had been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. 

Under Nasdaq’s rules, the notification of noncompliance had no immediate effect on the listing or trading of Frontier’s common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “FTR”. Under Nasdaq’s rules, we were given 180 days, or until June 15, 2020, to achieve compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the minimum bid price of Frontier’s common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days prior to the expiration of the 180-day grace period. Failure to regain compliance during this period could result in delisting. Since we received the notification, our share price has continued to consistently trade under $1.00. 

See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Common Stock—If we fail to regain and maintain compliance with the continued listing standards of Nasdaq, or if we file for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws, our common stock may be delisted and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and stock price.” for more information on the potential delisting of our common stock and the risks related thereto. 

Our Customers 

We conduct business with both consumer and commercial customers. 

3  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Consumer 

We provide broadband, video, voice and other services and products to our consumer customers. We deliver these services generally over a combination of fiber and copper-based networks. 

Commercial (small and medium businesses and larger enterprise customers (SME) as well as wholesale customers) 

We provide a broad range of services to our SME customers, including broadband service, ethernet service, traditional circuit-based services, software defined wide area network (SDWAN), managed Wi-Fi and cloud IT solutions, voice and Unified Communications as a Service (UCaaS) services and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). We also offer advanced hardware and network solutions and services. 

  o Larger Enterprise: Fortune 1000, multi-location companies, large government entities, large educational institutions, and non-profits.     

  o Medium Business: Single or multi-location companies and mid-sized government entities, educational institutions and non-profits.     

  o Small Business: Mostly single-location businesses, the smaller of which have purchase patterns similar to consumer customers.     

  o Wholesale: Wholesale customers are often referred to as carriers or service providers and include national operators such as AT&T and Verizon; local exchange companies that need to access locations within Frontier’s footprint to offer local services; and wireless carriers and integrated carriers that offer a variety of services across all of these categories. Wholesale customers buy both voice and data services to supplement their own network infrastructure.     

Services and Products 

We offer a broad portfolio of communications services for consumer and commercial customers. These services are offered on either a standalone basis or in a bundled package, depending on each customer’s needs. 

Data and internet services: We offer a comprehensive range of broadband and networking services. The principal consumer service we provide is broadband internet. Commercial services include a complete portfolio of ethernet services, dedicated internet, SDWAN, managed Wi-Fi, time division multiplexing data transport services and optical transport services. These services are all supported by 24/7 technical support and an advanced network operations center. We also offer wireless broadband services (through unlicensed spectrum) in select markets utilizing networks that we own or operate. 

Video services: We offer video services under FiOS brand in portions of California, Texas, Florida, Indiana, Oregon and Washington, and the Vantage brand in portions of Connecticut, North Carolina, South Carolina, Minnesota, Illinois, New York, and Ohio. We also offer satellite TV video service to our customers under an agency relationship with Dish Network Corp. (“Dish”) in all of our markets. 

Voice services: We provide voice services, including data-based VoIP and UCaaS, long-distance and voice messaging services, to consumer and commercial customers in all of our markets. These services are billed monthly in advance. Long-distance service to and from points outside our operating properties are provided by interconnection with the facilities of interexchange carriers. Our long-distance services are billed in advance for unlimited use service and billed in arrears for services on a per minute-of-use basis. 

Access services: We offer a range of access services. Our switched access services allow other carriers to use our facilities to originate and terminate their local and long-distance voice traffic. These services are generally offered on a month-to-month basis and the service is billed primarily on a minutes-of-use basis. Switched access charges are based on access rates filed with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for interstate services and with the respective state regulatory agency for intrastate services. See “Regulatory Environment” below. 

Advanced hardware and network solutions: We offer our SME customers various hardware and network solutions utilizing cloud functionality, including end-to-end solutions like cloud managed services and Managed Wireless LAN, as well as providing customer premise equipment (CPE). We offer third-party communications equipment tailored to their specific business needs by partnering with Mitel, Cisco, Ingram Micro, Airbus, Avaya, Hewlett Packard, Adtran and other equipment manufacturers. CPE is typically sold in conjunction with voice, data and Internet services, and may also be sold on a standalone basis. 

4  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Network Architecture and Technology 

Our local exchange carrier networks consist of host central office and remote sites, primarily equipped with digital and Internet Protocol switches. The outside plant consists of transport and distribution delivery networks connecting our host central office with remote central offices and ultimately with our customers. We own fiber optic and copper cable, which have been deployed in our networks and are the primary transport technologies between our host and remote central offices and interconnection points with other communication carriers. 

We have expanded and enhanced our fiber optic and copper transport systems to support increasing demand for high bandwidth transport services. We routinely enhance our network and upgrade with the latest internet protocol transport and routing equipment, reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexers transport systems, passive optical network, very high speed digital subscriber line broadband equipment, and VoIP switches. These systems support advanced services such as ethernet, dedicated internet, VoIP, and SDWAN. The network is designed with redundancy and auto-failover capability on our major circuits. 

We connect to households and business locations in our service territory using a combination of fiber optic, copper and wireless technologies. In some cases we provide direct fiber into a residence or a business premises. In other cases a location is served with a hybrid combination of fiber and copper. Residences in our service territory are served by fiber-to-the-home and by fiber-to-the-node, meaning fiber carries the traffic to an intermediate location where the signals are converted to copper wire for the final delivery to the household. We provide data, video, and voice services to customers over both of these architectures. Additionally, fixed wireless broadband (FWB) will play an important part of our future broadband strategy and is deployed for some business ethernet services. FWB is delivered by the use of an antenna on a Frontier base location and another antenna at the customer location. 

Competition 

Competition within the communications industry is intense. Technological advances as well as regulatory and legislative changes have enabled a wide range of historically non-traditional communications service providers to compete with traditional providers, including Frontier. More market participants are now competing to meet the communications needs of the same customer base, thus increasing competitive pressures. Many of these service providers are not subject to the same regulations as traditional communications providers and have lower cost structures than we do. The industry has also experienced substantial consolidation in recent years. Many of our competitors are larger, have stronger brand recognition, have more service offerings and have greater financial resources than we currently do. All of these factors create downward pressure on the demand for and pricing of our services. In addition to traditional communication providers we have competition with the following: 

  - Cable operators: In a majority of our markets, cable operators offer high speed Internet, video and voice services similar to ours, and compete with us aggressively for consumer and business customers on speed and price primarily by marketing with significant promotional period pricing.     

  - Wireless carriers: Wireless operators offer broadband, video and voice services and compete with us for consumer and business customers by offering increasingly larger data packages that utilize the latest 5G technology to mobile customers. As a result, the percentage of homes with landline telephone service has been declining, a trend we expect will continue.     

  - Online video providers: Many consumers are opting for internet-delivered video services (Over the Top, or OTT) through online service providers rather than traditional, multi-channel video. In response, we have made investments in our network to deliver OTT video content to consumers who might not opt for traditional video services. The percentage of homes with a traditional, multi-channel video product has declined, a trend we expect will continue.     

Competition for consumer customers is based on price, bandwidth, quality and speed of service, including pricing and promotions as well as bundling of service offerings. Competition comes from other communications providers, cable operators, Competitive Local Exchange Companies (“CLECs”) and other enterprises. Our focus is to improve our customers’ experience through the deployment of efficient responses for their specific needs. This will improve the overall service quality provided and encourage migration to higher speed internet services. Some consumer customers prefer the convenience and discounts available when voice, data, Internet and or video services are bundled by a single provider. To address this demand, we offer satellite TV video service through a partnership with Dish in areas where we don’t otherwise have our own video capabilities. 

5  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Competition for commercial customers is also based on price, bandwidth, quality and speed of service, including pricing and promotions and bundled offerings. Competition comes from other communications providers, cable operators, CLECs and other enterprises. As compared to our consumer customers, commercial customers often require more sophisticated and more data-centered solutions (e.g., IP PBX, E911 networks, ethernet and SIP trunking). In order to differentiate ourselves from other service providers, Frontier delivers end-to-end solutions such as cloud managed services and managed wireless LAN. 

As customers continue to migrate to OTT video models, broadband is a core growth component for attracting and retaining consumer customers as well as our smaller commercial customers. We are committed to growing our customer base through providing higher broadband speeds and capacity that will enable us to reach new markets, target new customers and grow the business while maximizing our full geographic footprint. 

In addition to the focus on our broadband capabilities, we must continue to evolve our other product offerings to stay current with the changing needs of the market, provide strong customer service and support, invest in our network to enable adequate capacity and capabilities, and package our offerings at attractive prices. We are continuing to execute on our initiatives to drive operational performance, invest in our fiber network, add talent to our organization and become a stronger partner to our residential and enterprise customers. 

Regulatory Environment 

Some of our operations are subject to regulation by the FCC and various state regulatory agencies, often called public service or utility commissions. We expect federal and state lawmakers, the FCC and the state regulatory agencies to continue to revise the statutes and regulations governing communications services. 

Regulation of our business 

We are subject to federal, state and local regulation and we have various regulatory authorizations for our regulated service offerings. At the federal level, the FCC generally exercises jurisdiction over information services, interstate or international telecommunications services and over facilities to the extent they are used to provide, originate or terminate interstate or international services. State regulatory commissions generally exercise jurisdiction over intrastate telecommunications services and the facilities used to provide, originate or terminate those services. Most of our local exchange companies operate as incumbent carriers in the states in which they operate and are certified in those states to provide local telecommunications services. Certain federal and state agencies, including attorneys general, monitor and exercise oversight related to consumer protection issues, including marketing, sales, provision of services, and service charges. In addition, local governments often regulate the public rights-of-way necessary to install and operate networks and may require service providers to obtain licenses or franchises regulating their use of public rights-of-way. Municipalities and other local government agencies also may regulate other limited aspects of our business, by requiring us to obtain cable franchises and construction permits and to abide by applicable building codes. 

Some state regulatory agencies have substantial oversight over incumbent telephone companies, and their interconnection with competitive providers and provision of non-discriminatory network access to certain network elements to them. Under the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, state regulatory commissions have jurisdiction to set certain rates, arbitrate, and review interconnection disputes and agreements between incumbent telephone companies and CLECs, in accordance with rules set by the FCC. The FCC and some state regulatory commissions also impose fees on providers of telecommunications services to support the federal and state universal service programs. Many of the states in which we operate require prior approvals or notifications for certain acquisitions and transfers of assets, customers, or ownership of regulated entities. 

Additionally, in some states we are subject to operating restrictions and minimum service quality standards. Failure to meet such restrictions may result in penalties. We also are required to report certain financial information. At the federal level and in a number of the states in which we operate, we are subject to price cap or incentive regulation plans under which prices for regulated services are capped. Some of these plans have limited terms and, as they expire, we may need to renegotiate with various states. These negotiations could impact rates, service quality and/or infrastructure requirements, which could also impact our earnings and capital expenditures. In other states in which we operate, we are subject to rate of return regulation that limits levels of earnings and returns on investments. Approximately 16% of our total access lines as of December 31, 2019 are in state jurisdictions under the rate of return regulatory model. We continue to advocate for no or reduced regulation with the regulatory agencies in those states. In some of the states we operate in we have already been successful in reducing or eliminating price regulation on end-user services. 

6  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Federal Regulatory Environment 

Frontier, along with all telecommunications providers, is subject to FCC rules governing privacy of specified customer information. Among other things, these rules obligate carriers to implement procedures to: protect specified customer information from inappropriate disclosure; obtain customer permission to use specified information in marketing; authenticate customers before disclosing account information; and annually certify compliance with the FCC’s rules. Although most of these regulations are generally consistent with our business plans, they may restrict our flexibility in operating our business. 

Some regulations are, or could in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals or challenges that could change the manner in which the entire industry operates or the way we provide our services. Neither the outcome of any of these developments, nor their potential impact on us, can be predicted at this time. Regulation can change rapidly in the communications industry, and such changes may have an adverse effect on us. 

The current status of material regulatory initiatives is as follows: 

Connect America Fund (CAF)/Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (RDOF): In 2015, Frontier accepted the FCC’s CAF Phase II offer in 29 states, which provides $332 million in annual support through 2020 (since extended to 2021 under RDOF, see below) in return for the Company’s commitment to make broadband available to approximately 774,000 locations within Frontier’s footprint. This amount includes approximately $19 million in the four states of the Northwest Operations. The CAF Phase II program is intended to provide long-term support for carriers for establishing and providing broadband service with at least 10 Mbps downstream/1 Mbps upstream speeds in high-cost unserved or underserved areas. CAF Phase II support is a successor to the approximately $198 million in annual USF frozen high-cost support that Frontier used to receive prior to CAF II. In addition to the annual support levels, these amounts also include frozen support phasedown amounts in states where the annual CAF II funding is less than the prior annual frozen high-cost support funding. Phasedown funding provided to Frontier was complete as of December 31, 2018. 

On January 30, 2020, the FCC adopted an order establishing the RDOF, the next phase of the CAF program. With this order, the FCC plans to hold two auctions totaling $20.4 billion of support over ten years. In the first auction, the FCC plans to offer up to $16 billion in support over ten years ($1.6 billion annually) for an estimated 6 million locations that lack access to speeds of at least 25/3 Mbps based on the FCC’s current maps. After the FCC updates its maps with more granular broadband availability information, the FCC plans to hold a second auction for any remaining locations with the remaining funding, at least $4.4 billion. Recognizing that the RDOF auction is unlikely to conclude before the end of the sixth year of CAF Phase II support (year-end 2020), the order explains that CAF recipients are entitled to a seventh year of CAF Phase II support through 2021, whether or not they are successful in the RDOF auction. The Commission released a public notice tentatively establishing October 22, 2020, as the date for the RDOF auction and is still soliciting technical details on the mechanics of the auction. As such, Frontier will continue to receive annual CAF Phase II support in 2021. While the RDOF has not yet been completely finalized, it could result in a material change in the level of funding that Frontier receives from the FCC under CAF II as early as 2022. 

Intercarrier Compensation: In the 2011 Universal Service Fund (USF)/Intercarrier Compensation (ICC) Report and Order (the 2011 Order), the FCC reformed Intercarrier Compensation, which is the payment framework that governs how carriers compensate each other for the exchange of interstate switched traffic and began a multi-year transition to the new rates. The 2011 Order provided for the gradual elimination of effectively all terminating traffic charges by July 2017. The 2011 Order did not resolve all questions on originating access rates and the FCC continues to consider the possibility of a transition of originating access rates, and the potential impact on Frontier from such a change, if any, is unknown at this time. Our total revenue for Intercarrier Compensation was $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. 

Special Access: On April 20, 2017, the FCC issued an Order (the 2017 Order) that significantly altered how commercial data services are regulated. Specifically, the 2017 Order adopted a test to determine, on a county-by-county basis, whether price-cap ILEC services, such as Frontier’s DS1 and DS3 services, will continue to be regulated. The test resulted in deregulation in a substantial number of our markets and is allowing Frontier to offer its DS1 and DS3 services in a manner that better responds to the competitive marketplace and allows for commercial negotiation. The areas that remain regulated may be subject to price fluctuations depending upon the price cap formula in each year. While multiple parties appealed the 2017 Order, the 8th Circuit issued a decision that upheld the majority of the 2017 Order. As to the part of the decision that was vacated and remanded to the FCC, the FCC has reinstated the deregulation and the FCC’s decision to reaffirm its deregulation has not been appealed. 

7  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Intrastate Services: Some state regulatory commissions regulate some of the rates ILECs charge for intrastate services, including originating switched access rates for intrastate access services paid by providers of intrastate long-distance services. Some states also have their own open proceedings to address reform to originating intrastate access charges and other intercarrier compensation and state universal service funds. Although the FCC has pre-empted state jurisdiction on most access charges, some states could consider moving forward with their proceedings. We cannot predict when or how these matters will be decided or the effect on our subsidy or switched access revenues. Our total revenue for Intrastate switched access services was $33 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, spread across all the states we serve. 

Current and Potential Internet Regulatory Obligations: On October 1, 2019, the D.C. Circuit Court largely upheld the FCC decision in its 2018 Restoring Internet Freedom Order to reclassify broadband as an “information service.” However, the Court invalidated the FCC’s preemption of a state’s ability to pass their own network neutrality rules and remanded back to the FCC other parts of the 2018 Order. We anticipate that this ruling will be appealed. California’s network neutrality provisions will remain on hold until all appeals of this case have been exhausted. It is unclear whether pending or future appeals will have any impact on the regulatory structure, and it is unclear the degree to which the FCC will preempt state regulation of net neutrality issues. 

Spectrum: On September 25, 2019, the FCC released an order scheduling its CBRS (3.5 GHz) auction, in which the FCC will auction 7 blocks of 10 MHz TDD per county, or 22,631 licenses nationwide, to begin on June 25, 2020. Short form applications to participate need to be filed by April 9, 2020. Frontier is evaluating whether to participate in this auction. 

Privacy: Privacy-related legislation has been considered in a number of states. Legislative and regulatory action could result in increased costs of compliance, claims against broadband internet access service providers and others, and increased uncertainty in the value and availability of data. On June 28, 2018, the state of California enacted comprehensive privacy legislation that, effective as of January 1, 2020, gives California consumers the right to know what personal information is being collected about them, and whether and to whom it is sold or disclosed, and to access and request deletion of this information. Subject to certain exceptions, it also gives consumers the right to opt-out of the sale of personal information. The law applies the same rules to all companies that collect consumer information. 

Coronavirus/COVID-19: On March 13, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, over 550 providers of critical communications services, including Frontier, took the FCC’s Keep Americans Connected pledge pursuant to which providers agree for the following 60 days (i) not to terminate service to any residential or small business customers because of their inability to pay their bills due to the disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic; (ii) waive any late fees that any residential or small business customers incur because of their economic circumstances related to the coronavirus pandemic; and (iii) to open its Wi-Fi hotspots to any American who needs them. We have seen a number of the states we operate in issue executive orders prohibiting the disconnection of services for customers for the length of the state of emergency. State and federal governments continue to ask companies to aid in pandemic response and some are reviewing possibilities of providing additional funding for connectivity, although potential amounts are still unknown. Given the unprecedented and evolving nature of the pandemic and the swift moving response of multiple levels of government, the impact of these changes and potential changes on the Company are unknown at this time. 

For information on the tax-related legislative response to the COVID-19 pandemic, see “Risk Factors―Risks Related to the Restructuring, Our Indebtedness and Liquidity―We may not be able to fully utilize our net operating loss and other tax carryforwards.” and “Risks Related to Regulation and Oversight―Tax legislation may adversely affect our business and financial condition.” 

Video Programming 

Federal, state and local governments extensively regulate the video services industry. Our FiOS and Vantage video brand services are subject to, among other things: subscriber privacy regulations; requirements that we carry a local broadcast station or obtain consent to carry a local or distant broadcast station; rules for franchise renewals and transfers; the manner in which program packages are marketed to subscribers; and program access requirements. 

We provide video programming in some of our markets in California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, South Carolina, Texas and Washington pursuant to franchises, permits and similar authorizations issued by state and local franchising authorities. Most franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material breach. In addition, most franchises require payment of a franchise fee as a requirement to the granting of authority. 

8  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance. In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations. We believe that we are in compliance and meeting all material standards and requirements. Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms of at least ten years and must be periodically renewed. Local franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate. 

Environmental Regulation 

The local exchange carrier subsidiaries we operate are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, disposal of, and exposure to hazardous materials, the release of pollutants into the environment and the remediation of contamination. As an owner and former owner of property, we are subject to environmental laws that could impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup at contaminated sites, including sites formerly owned by us, regardless of fault or the lawfulness of the activity that resulted in contamination. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. 

Segment Information 

We currently operate in one reportable segment. 

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales 

We have no foreign operations. 

General 

The dollar amount of our order backlog is not a significant consideration in our business and is not a meaningful metric for us. We have no material contracts or subcontracts that may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination at the election of the federal government. 

Intellectual Property 

We believe that we have the trademarks, trade names and intellectual property licenses that are necessary for the operation of our business. 

We own or have the rights to use various trademarks, service marks and trade names referred to in this report. Solely for convenience, we refer to trademarks, service marks and trade names in this report without the ™, SM and ® symbols. Such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent permitted by law, our rights to our trademarks, service marks and trade names. Other trademarks, trade names or service marks appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 18,300 employees, as compared to approximately 21,200 employees as of December 31, 2018. During 2019, reduction in workforce activities resulted in the severance of approximately 1,200 employees. As of December 31, 2019, approximately 13,100 of our total employees are represented by unions including approximately 1,900 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements that have expired but have been extended and are still effective for 2020. Of the union-represented employees as of December 31, 2019, approximately 4,200 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2020 and approximately 4,900 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2021. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. In connection with the sale of the Northwest Operations, we anticipate that we will transfer approximately 1,000 employees, including approximately 800 employees represented by unions. 

Available Information 

We make available, free of charge on our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents may be accessed through our website at www.frontier.com under “Investor Relations.” The information posted or linked on our website is not part of, or incorporated by reference into, this report. We also make our Annual Report available in printed form upon request at no charge. 

9  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

We also make available on our website, as noted above, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Specific Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Provisions for Certain Officers, and the charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees of the Board of Directors. Stockholders may request printed copies of these materials by writing to: 401 Merritt 7, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851 Attention: Corporate Secretary. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” related to future events. Forward-looking statements address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and contain words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “see,” “may,” “will,” “would,” or “target.” Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. Uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: 

 ● our ability to continue as a going concern;     

 ● our ability to successfully consummate the Restructuring, including by reaching an agreement-in-principle with respect to its terms, successfully negotiating and executing a restructuring support agreement and satisfying the conditions and milestones therein;     

 ● our ability to improve our liquidity and long-term capital structure, and to address our debt service obligations through the Restructuring;     

 ● ability to make the required payments under the agreements governing our current debt obligations;     

 ● our ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers, employees and other third parties as a result of the Restructuring;     

 ● the effects of the Restructuring on the Company and the interests of various constituents;     

 ● risks and uncertainties associated with the Restructuring, including our ability to obtain confirmation of a plan under any Chapter 11 Cases and successfully consummate the Restructuring;     

 ● our substantial level of indebtedness and related debt service obligations and restrictions, including those expected to be imposed by covenants in any debtor-in-possession or exit financing, that may limit our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to make payments on our debt;     

 ● declines in revenue from our voice services, switched and nonswitched access and video and data services that we cannot stabilize or offset with increases in revenue from other products and services;     

10  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

 ● our ability to successfully implement strategic initiatives, including opportunities to enhance revenue and realize productivity improvements;     

 ● our ability to effectively manage our operations, operating expenses, capital expenditures, debt service requirement and cash paid for income taxes and liquidity;     

 ● competition from cable, wireless and wireline carriers, satellite, and OTT companies, and the risk that we will not respond on a timely or profitable basis;     

 ● our ability to successfully adjust to changes in the communications industry, including the effects of technological changes and competition on our capital expenditures, products and service offerings;     

 ● risks related to disruption in our networks, infrastructure and information technology that result in customer loss and/or incurrence of additional expenses;     

 ● the impact of potential information technology or data security breaches or other cyber-attacks or other disruptions;     

 ● our ability to retain or attract new customers and to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers;     

 ● our ability to secure, continue to use or renew intellectual property and other licenses used in our business;     

 ● our ability to hire or retain key personnel;     

 ● our ability to dispose of certain assets or asset groups on terms that are attractive to us, or at all, including our ability to consummate the pending sale of our Northwest Operations;     

 ● the effects of changes in the availability of federal and state universal service funding or other subsidies to us and our competitors and our ability to obtain future subsidies, including participation in the proposed RDOF program;     

 ● our ability to meet our CAF II obligations and the risk of penalties or obligations to return certain CAF II funds;     

 ● our ability to defend against litigation and potentially unfavorable results from current pending and future litigation;     

 ● our ability to comply with applicable federal and state consumer protection requirements;     

 ● the effects of state regulatory requirements that could limit our ability to transfer cash among our subsidiaries or dividend funds up to the parent company;     

 ● the effects of governmental legislation and regulation on our business, including costs, disruptions, possible limitations on operating flexibility and changes to the competitive landscape resulting from such legislation or regulation;     

 ● the impact of regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks;     

 ● government infrastructure projects (such as highway construction) that impact our capital expenditures;     

 ● continued reductions in switched access revenues as a result of regulation, competition or technology substitutions;     

 ● our ability to effectively manage service quality in the states in which we operate and meet mandated service quality metrics;     

11  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

 ● the effects of changes in income tax rates, tax laws, regulations or rulings, or federal or state tax assessments, including the risk that such changes may benefit our competitors more than us, as well as potential future decreases in the value of our deferred tax assets;     

 ● the effects of changes in accounting policies or practices, including potential future impairment charges with respect to our intangible assets or additional losses on assets held for sale;     

 ● the effects of increased medical expenses and pension and postemployment expenses;     

 ● our ability to successfully renegotiate union contracts;     

 ● changes in pension plan assumptions, interest rates, discount rates, regulatory rules and/or the value of our pension plan assets, which could require us to make increased contributions to the pension plan in 2020 and beyond;     

 ● the effects of weak economic conditions and market disruptions, including the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; and     

 ● risks arising from the potential delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Select Market.     

Any of the foregoing events, or other events, could cause our results to vary from management’s forward-looking statements included in this report. You should consider these important factors, as well as the risks set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” in evaluating any statement in this report or otherwise made by us or on our behalf. We have no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements and do not undertake to do so. 

Investors should also be aware that while we do, at various times, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them selectively any material non-public information or other confidential information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by an analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. 

12  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRONTIER COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors