Part I - Item 1. Business

Item 1. BUSINESS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

GENERAL

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford”, the “Company”, “we”, or “our”) is a holding company for a group of subsidiaries that provide property and casualty ("P&C") insurance, group benefits insurance and services, and mutual funds and exchange-traded products to individual and business customers in the United States as well as in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and other international locations. The Hartford is headquartered in Connecticut and its oldest subsidiary, Hartford Fire Insurance Company, dates back to 1810. At December 31, 2019, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were $70.8 billion and $16.3 billion, respectively.

ORGANIZATION

The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to individuals and businesses and is considered a leading property and casualty and employee group benefits insurer. The Company endeavors to expand its insurance 

product offerings and distribution and capitalize on the strength of the Company's brand. The Hartford Stag logo is one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry. The Company is also working to increase efficiencies through investments in technology.

As a holding company, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and has no significant business operations of its own. The holding company relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations, pay dividends and repurchase common stock. Information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) — Capital Resources and Liquidity. 

STRATEGIC PRIORITIES

The Hartford’s strategy focuses on realizing the full potential of our product capabilities and underwriting expertise, becoming an easier company to do business with, and attracting, retaining and developing the talent needed for long-term success.

Many initiatives and investments in 2019 advanced our position in each strategic focus area:

•Closing on the acquisition of The Navigators Group, Inc. (“Navigators Group”), a global specialty insurance company.

•Integrating the recent Group Benefits and Navigators Group acquisitions successfully, and maximizing our combined potential by deepening our distribution relationships, capitalizing on a broader product portfolio and meeting a wider array of customer needs.

•Increasing the speed and ease of our interactions and business processes through data, digital technology and voice of customer, including expanded use of robotics and continued enhancements to underwriting and quoting platforms.

•Continuing investment in new products and business models such as Spectrum, our next-generation package offering for 

small businesses, which offers customers tailored coverage recommendations as well as the ability to customize their own coverage, including real-time quote pricing. We are investing to maintain market leadership in small commercial as existing competitors and new entrants increase their focus on this business.

•Improving employee experience. We are investing in our workforce and striving to attract, retain and develop the best talent in the industry, enhance our industry-leading position in diversity and inclusion, and sustain our ethical culture. We see the benefits of this commitment in our sustained top-decile employee engagement scores.

2019 Financial Results

Our 2019 financial results were excellent, with strong financial results across all of our business lines. Full year 2019 income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders was $2.1 billion, or $5.66 per diluted share and net 

6

Part I - Item 1. Business

income return on equity ("ROE") was 14.4%. Book value per diluted share rose 25%, to $43.85, primarily due to net income in excess of common stockholder dividends during 2019 and an increase in common stockholders' equity resulting from the impact of lower interest rates and tighter credit spreads on net unrealized investment gains within AOCI. Total revenues were $20.7 billion, up 9% since 2018 as growth in Commercial Lines, driven partly by the Navigators Group acquisition, and growth in Group Benefits was partially offset by a decline in Personal Lines. 

Integration of the Navigators Group business is underway and we are making progress on improving the profitability of the acquired book of business, including pricing increases and underwriting actions. We are encouraged by the product breadth and depth of underwriting talent that the Navigators Group acquisition has contributed, and we’re already seeing the impact of these additions in our businesses and with our distribution partners.

Our Group Benefits business has benefited from favorable incidence trends in group disability and remains well-poised to compete moving forward with a complete set of voluntary product offerings. 

We will also continue to address business challenges, including the need to return our Personal Lines segment to top line growth, the need for additional rate increases in challenging lines, such as in commercial auto, property, general liability and global specialty, and the continued rate pressure on workers’ compensation in response to continued favorable loss cost trends. In addition, the decline in reinvestment rates will continue to put pressure on investment yields and it remains to be seen whether the market will compensate with higher rate increases to increase underwriting profitability or will accept lower overall returns on equity. 

2020 Priorities

As we enter 2020, our strategy remains consistent and we are focused on the following priorities: 

•Commercial Lines

–Benefiting from a firming pricing environment in most property and liability lines while navigating continued pricing pressure in workers’ compensation by staying disciplined in our underwriting; 

–Leveraging advanced analytics and technologies as well as the combined product breadth and talent we have acquired with Navigators Group; and 

–Continuing our journey to be a top-tier risk player in middle market.

•Personal Lines

–Continuing to upgrade our products and regain competitive momentum; and

–Continuing to drive new business growth in AARP Direct.

•Group Benefits

– Continuing to grow revenues through sales growth in group life and voluntary; and 

–Substantially completing by year end the integration of the block of business we acquired from Aetna in 2017.

Finally, beyond the achievement of business performance goals, The Hartford has long understood that making a sustainable and positive impact on society is an essential element of our ongoing success. Through financial contributions, volunteering and support for our company’s environmental initiatives, we are committed to demonstrating our character to customers and neighbors. We have proactive positions on social, environmental and governance issues important to our sustainability, and our capacity to deliver long-term shareholder value. For more information on the Company’s sustainability initiatives, please refer to our 2018 Sustainability Highlight Report available on the investor relations section of the Company’s website at: https://ir.thehartford.com. 

7

Part I - Item 1. Business

REPORTING SEGMENTS

The Hartford conducts business principally in five reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property & Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits and Hartford Funds, as well as a Corporate category. The Company includes in the Corporate category discontinued operations related to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, reserves for run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities, capital raising activities (including equity financing, debt financing and related interest expense), transaction expenses incurred in connection with an acquisition, purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments. Corporate also includes investment management fees and expenses related to managing third party business, including management of the invested assets of Talcott Resolution Life, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Talcott Resolution"). Talcott Resolution is the holding company of the life and annuity business that we sold in May 2018. In addition, Corporate includes a 9.7% ownership interest in the legal entity that acquired the life and annuity business sold. 

2019 Revenues of $20,740 [1] by Segment

[1]Includes Revenue of $106 for Property & Casualty Other Operations and $234 for Corporate.

The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of The Hartford's reporting segments. For further discussion of the reporting segments, including financial disclosures of revenues by product line, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 4 - Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

8

Part I - Item 1. Business

COMMERCIAL LINES

2019 Earned Premiums of $8,290 by Line of Business

2019 Earned Premiums of $8,290 by Product 

Principal Products and Services 

AutomobileCovers damage to a business's fleet of vehicles due to collision or other perils (automobile physical damage). In addition to first party automobile physical damage, commercial automobile covers liability for bodily injuries and property damage suffered by third parties and losses caused by uninsured or under-insured motorists.

PropertyCovers the building a business owns or leases as well as its personal property, including tools and equipment, inventory, and furniture. A commercial property insurance policy covers losses resulting from fire, wind, hail, earthquake, theft and other covered perils, including coverage for assets such as accounts receivable and valuable papers and records. Commercial property may include specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery.

General LiabilityCovers a business in the event it is sued for causing harm to a person and/or damage to property. General liability insurance covers third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on the insured’s premises or arising out of their operations. General liability insurance may also cover losses arising from product liability and provide replacement of lost income due to an event that interrupts business operations.

MarineEncompasses various ocean and inland marine coverages including cargo, craft, hull, specie, transport and liability, among others.

Package BusinessCovers both property and general liability damages.

Workers' CompensationCovers employers for losses incurred due to employees sustaining an injury, illness or disability in connection with their work. Benefits paid under workers’ compensation policies may include reimbursement of medical care costs, replacement income, compensation for permanent injuries and benefits to survivors. Workers’ compensation is provided under both guaranteed cost policies (coverage for a fixed premium) and loss sensitive policies where premiums are adjustable based on the loss experience of the employer.

Professional LiabilityCovers liability arising from directors and officers acting in their official capacity and liability for errors and omissions committed by professionals and others. Coverage may also provide employment practices insurance relating to allegations of wrongful termination and discrimination.

BondEncompasses fidelity and surety insurance, including commercial surety, contract surety and fidelity bonds. Commercial surety includes bonds that insure non-performance by contractors, license and permit bonds to help meet government-mandated requirements and probate and judicial bonds for fiduciaries and civil court proceedings. Contract surety bonds may include payment and performance bonds for contractors. Fidelity bonds may include ERISA bonds related to the handling of retirement plan assets and bonds protecting against employee theft or fraud. The Company also provides credit and political risk insurance offered to clients with global operations.

Assumed ReinsuranceIncludes assumed reinsurance of property, liability, agriculture, marine and accident and health risks throughout the world but principally in Europe and North America.

9

Part I - Item 1. Business

Through its three lines of business of small commercial, middle & large commercial, and global specialty, Commercial Lines offers its products and services to businesses in the United States ("U.S.") and internationally. Commercial Lines generally consists of products written for small businesses and middle market companies as well as national and multi-national accounts, largely distributed through retail agents and brokers, wholesale agents and global and specialty reinsurance brokers. The majority of Commercial Lines written premium is generated by small commercial and middle market, which provide coverage options and customized pricing based on the policyholder’s individual risk characteristics. Small commercial and middle market lines within middle & large commercial are generally referred to as standard commercial lines. 

Small commercial provides coverages for small businesses, which the Company generally considers to be businesses with an annual payroll under $12, revenues under $25 and property values less than $20 per location. Within small commercial, both property and general liability coverages are offered under a single package policy, marketed under the Spectrum name. Through Maxum Specialty Insurance Group ("Maxum"), small commercial also provides excess and surplus lines coverage to small businesses including umbrella, general liability, property and other coverages. 

Middle & large commercial business provides insurance coverages to medium-sized and national accounts businesses, which are companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition. In addition to offering standard commercial lines products, middle & large commercial includes program business which provides tailored programs, primarily to customers with common risk characteristics. On national accounts, a significant portion of the business is written through large deductible programs. Other programs written within middle & large commercial are retrospectively-rated where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. Also within middle & large commercial, the Company writes captive programs business, which provides tailored programs to those seeking a loss sensitive solution where premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. 

Global specialty provides a variety of customized insurance products, including property, liability, marine, professional liability, bond and accident and health reinsurance. On May 23, 2019, the Company' acquired Navigators Group, a global specialty insurer. The vast majority of the business written by our Navigators Group insurance subsidiaries is reported in the global specialty business unit. Revenues and earnings of the Navigators Group business are included in operating results of the Company's Commercial Lines segment since the acquisition date. For discussion of this transaction, see Note 2- Business Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Marketing and Distribution

Commercial Lines provides insurance products and services through the Company’s regional offices, branches and sales and policyholder service centers throughout the United States and overseas, principally in Europe. The products are marketed and distributed using independent retail agents and brokers, wholesale agents and global and specialty reinsurance brokers. As the sole corporate member of Lloyd's Syndicate 1221 ("Lloyd's Syndicate"), the Company has the exclusive right to underwrite 

business up to an approved level of premium in the Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”) market. 

In the United States, the independent agent and broker distribution channel is consolidating and this trend is expected to continue. This will likely result in a larger proportion of written premium being concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. In addition, the Company offers insurance products to customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies in the United States and to members of affinity organizations.

Competition

Small Commercial

In small commercial, The Hartford competes against large national carriers, regional carriers and direct writers. Competitors include stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market remains highly competitive and fragmented as carriers seek to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and leading technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford continually advance their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents and customers through the use of technology, analytics and other capabilities that improve the process of evaluating a risk, quoting new business and servicing customers. The Company also continuously enhances digital capabilities as customers and distributors demand more access and convenience, and expands product and underwriting capabilities to accommodate both larger accounts and a broader risk appetite. Existing competitors and new entrants, including start-up and non-traditional carriers, are actively looking to expand sales of business insurance products to small businesses through increasing their underwriting appetite, deepening their relationships with distribution partners, and through on-line and direct-to-consumer marketing.

Middle & Large Commercial

Middle & large commercial business is considered “high touch” and involves individual underwriting and pricing decisions. Competition in this market includes stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The pricing of middle market and national accounts is prone to significant volatility over time due to changes in individual account characteristics and exposure, as well as legislative and macro-economic forces. National and regional carriers participate in the middle & large commercial insurance sector, resulting in a competitive environment where pricing and policy terms are critical to securing new business and retaining existing accounts. Within this competitive environment, The Hartford is working to deepen its product and underwriting capabilities, leverage its sales and underwriting talent and expand its use of data analytics to make risk selection and pricing decisions. In product development and related areas such as claims and risk engineering, the Company is extending its capabilities in industry verticals, such as energy, construction, technology and life sciences. Through business partners, the Company offers business insurance coverages to exporters and other U.S. companies with a physical presence overseas. The Hartford’s middle & large commercial business will leverage the investments in product, underwriting, and technology to better match price to individual risk as the firm pursues responsible growth strategies to deliver target returns.

10

Part I - Item 1. Business

For specialty casualty businesses within middle & large commercial, pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. As a means to mitigate the cost of insurance on larger accounts, more insureds may opt for the loss-sensitive products offered in our national accounts segment, including retrospectively rated contracts, in lieu of guaranteed cost policies. Under a retrospectively-rated contract, the ultimate premium collected from the insured is adjusted based on how incurred losses for the policy year develop over time, subject to a minimum and maximum premium. 

Global Specialty

Global specialty competes against multi-national insurance and reinsurance companies, writing marine, property, excess casualty, professional liability, bond and assumed reinsurance. Global specialty also includes excess and surplus lines written through Maxum, including umbrella, general liability, property and other coverages. Due to adverse loss experience over the past couple of years, particularly in ocean marine, property, excess casualty and international professional liability lines, pricing has increased across the industry in response to those loss cost trends. Nonetheless, the market continues to be highly competitive.

In the bond business, favorable underwriting results in recent years has led to increased competition for market share.

In professional liability, international, large and medium-sized businesses are in differing competitive environments. Large public director & officers coverage, specifically excess layers, is under significant competitive price pressure. The middle market private management liability segment is in a more stable competitive and pricing environment.

Lloyd's syndicate and London market business has been under financial stress in recent years due to a perceived lack of adequate premium pricing and an excessive focus on growth at the expense of underwriting discipline in those markets, combined with a significant increase in the level of catastrophe activity. As such, syndicates and London market carriers, including The Hartford, are taking pricing and underwriting actions to improve profitability. Lloyd's of London ("Lloyd's"), which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulatory Authority in the U.K., has been implementing changes to improve performance of the syndicates including a more rigorous approach to the approval of syndicate business plans. Additionally Lloyd’s have also introduced recent changes which require that members limit the amount of tier 2 capital (e.g. letters of credit) that can be used to meet syndicate solvency capital requirements.

PERSONAL LINES

2019 Earned Premiums of $3,198 by Line of Business

2019 Earned Premiums of $3,198 by Product

11

Part I - Item 1. Business

Principal Products and Services

AutomobileCovers damage to an individual insured’s own vehicle due to collision or other perils and is referred to as automobile physical damage. In addition to first party automobile physical damage, automobile insurance covers liability for bodily injuries and property damage suffered by third parties and losses caused by uninsured or underinsured motorists. Also, under no-fault laws, policies written in some states provide first party personal injury protection. Some of the Company’s personal automobile insurance policies also offer personal umbrella liability coverage for an additional premium.

HomeownersInsures against losses to residences and contents from fire, wind and other perils. Homeowners insurance includes owned dwellings, rental properties and coverage for tenants. The policies may provide other coverages, including loss related to recreation vehicles or watercraft, identity theft and personal items such as jewelry.

Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to individuals across the United States, including a program designed exclusively for members of AARP (“AARP Program”). The Hartford's automobile and homeowners products provide coverage options and pricing tailored to a customer's individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders and, as a group, they represent a significant portion of the total Personal Lines' business. Business sold to AARP members, either direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of $2.9 billion, $3.0 billion and $3.2 billion in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

During 2019, Personal Lines continued to refine its automobile and home product offerings marketed under the Open Road Auto and Home Advantage names. Overall rate levels, price segmentation, rating factors and underwriting procedures were examined and updated to reflect the company’s actual experience with these products. Personal Lines works with carrier partners to provide risk protection options for AARP members with needs beyond the company’s current product offering.

Marketing and Distribution

Personal Lines reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels, including direct-to-consumer and independent agents. In direct-to-consumer, Personal Lines markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail, digital marketing, television as well as digital and print advertising. Through the agency channel, Personal Lines provides products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market, primarily serving mature, preferred consumers. These independent agents are not employees of the Company.

Personal Lines has made significant investments in offering direct and agency-based customers the opportunity to interact with the company online, including via mobile devices. In addition, its technology platform for telephone sales centers enables sales representatives to provide an enhanced experience for direct-to-consumer customers, positioning the Company to offer unique capabilities to AARP’s member base.

Most of Personal Lines' sales are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, with the current agreement in place through January 1, 2023, to market automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to AARP's approximately 37 million members, primarily direct but also through independent agents. This relationship with AARP, which has been in place since 1984, provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage given the increase in the 

population of those over age 50 and the strength of the AARP brand. In most states, auto and home policies issued to AARP members include a lifetime continuation agreement endorsement, providing that the policies will be renewed as long as certain terms are met, such as timely payment of premium and maintaining a driver’s license in good standing. 

In addition to selling to AARP members, Personal Lines offers its automobile and homeowners products to non-AARP customers, primarily through the independent agent channel within select underwriting markets where we believe we have a competitive advantage. Personal Lines leverages its agency channel to target AARP members and other customer segments that value the advice of an independent agent and recognize the differentiated experience the Company provides. In particular, the Company has taken action to distinguish its brand and improve profitability in the independent agent channel with fewer and more highly partnered agents.

Competition

The personal lines automobile and homeowners insurance markets are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete principally on the basis of price, product, service, including claims handling, the insurer's ratings and brand recognition. Companies with strong ratings, recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. In recent years, insurers have increased their advertising in the direct-to-consumer market, in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. The growth of direct-to-consumer sales, including through new entrants to the marketplace, continues to outpace sales in the agency distribution channel.

Insurers that distribute products principally through agency channels compete by offering commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top tier insurers are offering on-line and self-service capabilities that make it easier for agents and consumers to do business with the insurer. A large majority of agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools increases price competition. Insurers that are able to capitalize on their brand and reputation, differentiate their products and deliver strong customer service are more likely to be successful in this market.

The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business, and carriers have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. The Company continues to invest in capabilities to better utilize data and analytics, and thereby, refine and manage 

12

Part I - Item 1. Business

underwriting and pricing. 

Also, new automobile technology advancements, including lane departure warnings, backup cameras, automatic braking and active collision alerts, are being deployed rapidly and are 

expected to improve driver safety and reduce the likelihood of vehicle collisions. However, these features include expensive parts, potentially increasing average claim severity.

PROPERTY & CASUALTY OTHER OPERATIONS

Property & Casualty Other Operations includes certain property and casualty operations, managed by the Company, that have discontinued writing new business and includes substantially all of the Company's pre-1986 asbestos and environmental ("A&E") exposures. For a discussion of coverages provided under policies 

written with exposure to A&E prior to 1986, reported within the P&C Other Operations segment (“Run-off A&E”), run-off assumed reinsurance and all other non-A&E exposures, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Property & Casualty Insurance Product Reserves.

GROUP BENEFITS

2019 Premiums and Fee Income of $5,603 

Principal Products and Services

Group LifeTypically is term life insurance provided in the form of yearly renewable term life insurance. Other life coverages in this category include accidental death and dismemberment and travel accident insurance.

Group DisabilityTypically comprised of short-term disability, long-term disability, and family leave coverage that pays a percentage of an employee’s salary for a period of time if they are ill or injured and cannot perform the duties of their job or absent from work to care for a family member. Short-term and long-term disability policies have elimination periods that must be satisfied prior to benefit payments. The Company also earns fee income from leave management services and the administration of underwriting, enrollment and claims processing for employer self-funded plans.

Other ProductsIncludes other group coverages such as retiree health insurance, critical illness, accident, hospital indemnity and participant accident coverages.

Group insurance typically covers an entire group of people under a single contract, most typically the employees of a single employer or members of an association.

Group Benefits provides group life, disability and other group coverages to members of employer groups, associations and affinity groups through direct insurance policies and provides reinsurance to other insurance companies. In addition to employer paid coverages, the segment offers voluntary product 

coverages which are offered through employee payroll deductions. Group Benefits also offers disability underwriting, administration, and claims processing to self-funded employer plans. In addition, the segment offers a single-company leave management solution, which integrates work absence data from the insurer’s short-term and long-term group disability and workers’ compensation insurance business with its leave management administration services.

13

Part I - Item 1. Business

Group Benefits generally offers term insurance policies, allowing for the adjustment of rates or policy terms in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, loss costs, declining interest rates and other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending upon the product and market segment.

On November 1, 2017, the Company's group benefits subsidiary, Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company ("HLA") acquired Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business through a reinsurance transaction. Revenues and earnings of the Aetna U.S. group life and disability business are included in operating results of the Company's Group Benefits segment since the acquisition date. For discussion of this transaction, see Note 2- Business Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Marketing and Distribution

The Group Benefits distribution network is managed through a regional sales office system to distribute its group insurance products and services through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party administrators and trade associations. Additionally, the segment has relationships with several private exchanges which offer its products to employer groups.

The acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business in 2017 further enhanced Group Benefit's distribution footprint by increasing its sales force. The acquisition also provided Group Benefits an exclusive, multi year collaboration to sell it's group life and disability products through Aetna's medical sales team.

Competition

Group Benefits competes with numerous insurance companies and financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. In 

order to differentiate itself, Group Benefits uses its risk management expertise and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors include the extent of products offered, price, the quality of customer and claims handling services, and the Company's relationship with third-party distributors and private exchanges. Active price competition continues in the marketplace, resulting in multi-year rate guarantees being offered to customers. Top tier insurers in the marketplace also offer on-line and self-service capabilities to third party distributors and consumers. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business provides a competitive advantage over smaller competitors. 

Group Benefits' acquisition of Aetna's U.S. group life and disability business further increased its market presence and competitive capabilities through the addition of industry-leading digital technology and an integrated absence management and claims platform.

Additionally, as employers continue to focus on reducing the cost of employee benefits, we expect more companies to offer voluntary products paid for by employees. Competitive factors affecting the sale of voluntary products include the breadth of products, product education, enrollment capabilities and overall customer service.

The Company has expanded its employer group product offerings, including the voluntary product suite, encompassing coverages for short term absences from work, critical illness and accident coverages. The Company's enhanced enrollment and marketing tools, such as My Tomorrow©, are providing additional opportunities to educate individual participants about supplementary benefits and deepen their knowledge about product selection.

HARTFORD FUNDS

Hartford Funds Segment Assets Under Management ("AUM") of $126,958 as of December 31, 2019

Mutual Fund AUM as of December 31, 2019

14

Part I - Item 1. Business

Principal Products and Services

Mutual FundsIncludes approximately 70 actively managed mutual funds across a variety of asset classes including domestic and international equity, fixed income, and multi-strategy investments, principally subadvised by two unaffiliated institutional asset management firms that have comprehensive global investment capabilities. 

ETPIncludes a suite of exchange-traded products (“ETP”) traded on the New York Stock Exchange that is comprised of multi-factor and actively managed fixed income exchange-traded funds ("ETF"). Multi-factor ETF’s are designed to track indices using both active and passive investment techniques that strive to improve performance relative to traditional capitalization weighted indices.

Talcott Resolution life and annuity separate accountsRelates to assets of the life and annuity business sold in May 2018 that are still managed by the Company's Hartford Funds segment.

The Hartford Funds segment provides investment management, administration, product distribution and related services to investors through a diverse set of investment products in domestic and international markets. Hartford Funds' comprehensive range of products and services assist clients in achieving their desired investment objectives. AUM are separated into three distinct categories referred to as mutual funds, ETP and Talcott Resolution life and annuity separate accounts, which relate to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018. The Hartford Funds segment will continue to manage the mutual fund assets of Talcott Resolution, though these assets are expected to continue to decline over time.

Marketing and Distribution

Our funds and ETPs are sold through national and regional broker-dealer organizations, independent financial advisers, defined contribution plans, financial consultants, bank trust 

groups and registered investment advisers. Our distribution team is organized to sell primarily in the United States. The investment products for Talcott Resolution are not actively distributed.

Competition

The investment management industry is mature and highly competitive. Firms are differentiated by investment performance, range of products offered, brand recognition, financial strength, proprietary distribution channels, quality of service and level of fees charged relative to quality of investment products. The Hartford Funds segment competes with a large number of asset management firms and other financial institutions and differentiates itself through superior fund performance, product breadth, strong distribution and competitive fees. In recent years demand for lower cost passive investment strategies has outpaced demand for actively managed strategies and has taken market share from active managers.

CORPORATE

The Company includes in the Corporate category investment management fees and expenses related to managing third party business, including management of the invested assets of Talcott Resolution, reserves for run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities, capital raising activities (including equity financing, debt financing and related interest expense), transaction expenses incurred in connection with an acquisition, purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments.

Additionally, included in the Corporate category are discontinued operations from the Company's life and annuity business sold in May 2018 and a 9.7% ownership interest in the legal entity that acquired this business. The operating results of the life and annuity business are included in discontinued operations for all periods prior to the closing date.

15

Part I - Item 1. Business

RESERVES

Total Reserves as of December 31, 2019 [1]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The reserve for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses includes a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these insurance claims, including reserves related to both Property & Casualty and Group Benefits.

Total Property & Casualty Reserves as of December 31, 2019

Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including run-off asbestos and environmental claims reserves within P&C Other Operations, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves. Additional discussion may be found in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, including in the Company’s accounting policies for insurance product reserves within Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies and in Note 11 - Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Total Group Benefits Reserves as of December 31, 2019 [1]

[1]Includes $118 of short-term disability reserves and $46 of supplemental health reserves.

[2]Includes $294 of paid up life reserves and policy reserves on life policies, $105 of reserves for conversions to individual life and $12 of other reserves.

Other policyholder funds and benefits payable represent deposits from policyholders where the company does not have insurance risk but is subject to investment risk. Reserves for future policy benefits represent life-contingent reserves for which the company is subject to insurance and investment risk. 

Discussion of The Hartford's Group Benefits long-term disability reserves may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Group Benefits Long-term Disability ("LTD") Reserves, Net of Reinsurance. Additional discussion may be found in Note 11 - Reserve for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

16

Part I - Item 1. Business

UNDERWRITING FOR P&C AND GROUP BENEFITS

The Company underwrites the risks it insures in order to manage exposure to loss through favorable risk selection and diversification. Risk modeling is used to manage, within specified limits, the aggregate exposure taken in each line of business and across the Company. For property and casualty business, aggregate exposure limits are set by geographic zone and peril. Products are priced according to the risk characteristics of the insured’s exposures. Rates charged for Personal Lines products are filed with the states in which we write business. Rates for Commercial Lines products are also filed with the states but the premium charged may be modified based on the insured’s relative risk profile and workers’ compensation policies may be subject to modification based on prior loss experience. Pricing for Group Benefits products, including long-term disability and life insurance, is also based on an underwriting of the risks and a projection of estimated losses, including consideration of investment income.

Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, the Company’s response to rate actions taken by competitors, its expense levels and expectations about regulatory and legal developments. The Company seeks to price its insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will cover underwriting expenses and the ultimate cost of paying claims reported on the policies and provide for a profit margin. For many of its insurance products, the Company is required to obtain approval for its premium rates from state insurance departments and the Lloyd's Syndicate's ability to write business is subject to Lloyd's approval for its premium capacity each year. 

Geographic Distribution of Earned Premium (% of total)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[1] No other single state or country accounted for 5% or more of the Company's consolidated earned premium written in 2019.

CLAIMS ADMINISTRATION FOR P&C AND GROUP BENEFITS

Claims administration includes the functions associated with the receipt of initial loss notices, claims adjudication and estimates, legal representation for insureds where appropriate, establishment of case reserves, payment of losses and notification to reinsurers. These activities are performed by approximately 7,100 claim professionals located in 50 states, Washington D.C and 5 international locations, organized to meet the specific claim service needs for our various product offerings. Our combined workers’ compensation and Group Benefits units enable us to leverage synergies for improved outcomes.

Claim payments for benefit, loss and loss adjustment expenses are the largest expenditure for the Company.

REINSURANCE

For discussion of reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management and Note 8 - Reinsurance of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

Hartford Investment Management Company (“HIMCO”) is an SEC registered investment advisor and manages the Company's investment operations. HIMCO provides customized investment strategies for The Hartford's investment portfolio, as well as for The Hartford's pension plan and institutional clients. In connection with the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, HIMCO entered into an agreement for an initial five year term to manage the invested assets of Talcott Resolution. 

As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was approximately $98.0 billion and $89.6 billion, respectively, including $42.4 billion and $40.2 billion, respectively, that were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts and $4.1 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, that support the Company's pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.

Management of The Hartford's Investment Portfolio 

HIMCO manages the Company's investment portfolios to maximize economic value and generate the returns necessary to support The Hartford’s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, but are not limited to, asset sector, 

17

Part I - Item 1. Business

credit issuer allocation limits, and maximum portfolio limits for below investment grade holdings. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from changes in economic conditions through asset diversification, asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management approach, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management.

The Hartford's Investment Portfolio of $53.0 billion as of December 31, 2019

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company has insurance, operational and financial risks. For discussion on how The Hartford manages these risks, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management.

REGULATION

State and Foreign Insurance Laws

State insurance laws are intended to supervise and regulate insurers with the goal of protecting policyholders and ensuring the solvency of the insurers. As such, the insurance laws and regulations grant broad authority to state insurance departments (“Departments”) to oversee and regulate the business of insurance. The Departments monitor the financial stability of an insurer by requiring insurers to maintain certain solvency standards and minimum capital and surplus requirements; invested asset requirements; state deposits of securities; guaranty fund premiums; restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; and adequate reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported. In addition, the Departments perform periodic 

market and financial examinations of insurers and require insurers to file annual and other reports on the financial condition of the companies. Policyholder protection is also regulated by the Departments through licensing of insurers, sales employees, agents and brokers and others; approval of premium rates and policy forms; claims administration requirements; and maintenance of minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values.

Many states also have laws regulating insurance holding company systems. These laws require insurance companies, which are formed and chartered in the state ( “Domestic Insurers”), to register with the state department of insurance (referred to as their “domestic state or regulator”) and file information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. Insurance holding company regulations principally relate to (i) state insurance approval of the acquisition of Domestic Insurers, (ii) prior review or approval of certain transactions between the domestic insurer and its affiliates, and (iii) regulation of dividends made by the domestic insurer. All transactions within a holding company system affecting Domestic Insurers must be determined to be fair and equitable.

The NAIC, the organization that works to promote standardization of best practices and assists state insurance regulatory authorities and insurers, conducted the “Solvency Modernization Initiative” (the “Solvency Initiative”). The effort focused on reviewing the U.S. financial regulatory system and financial regulation affecting insurance companies including capital requirements, corporate governance and risk management, group supervision, statutory accounting and financial reporting and reinsurance. As a result of the Solvency Initiative, the NAIC adopted model regulations, adopted by the Company’s lead regulator of Connecticut, requiring insurers to file disclosures annually on their risk management and corporate governance practices under the Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Act, Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (ORSA) and Holding Company Act Enterprise Risk Report.

The extent of financial services regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements, while others regulate financial services providers extensively. Foreign financial services providers in certain countries are faced with greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. In addition, an insurance company underwriting risks through the Lloyd’s of London market (“Lloyd’s") utilizes a special vehicle (the “Syndicate”) and is required to comply with Lloyd’s capital requirements. Lloyd’s determines the amount of capital, known as Funds at Lloyd’s (“FAL”), that each Syndicate has to provide in order to support the amount and the level of risk (as determined by Lloyd’s) of the business which the Syndicate is expected to underwrite. Under Solvency II, insurers are required to hold a sufficient level of capital. Syndicates seeking to utilize letters of credit or other third party guarantees to meet Solvency II requirements must first obtain approval from the Prudential Regulation Authority.

18

Part I - Item 1. Business

Federal and State Securities and Financial Regulation Laws

The Company sells and distributes its mutual funds through a broker dealer subsidiary, and is subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the SEC and/or, in some instances, state securities administrators. Other subsidiaries operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers’ Act of 1940, as amended, and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as applicable. Because federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in securities markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority. Some of these regulations include, among other things, regulations impacting sales methods, trading practices, suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds, corporate governance, capital, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.

Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may result in fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of our operations and/or our employees.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.

We have a trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the 

combination of these two trademarks. The duration of trademark registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration requirements. We regard our trademarks as highly valuable assets in marketing our products and services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to on-line quoting, insurance related processing, insurance telematics, proprietary interface platforms, and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations. Patents are of varying duration depending on filing date, and will typically expire at the end of their natural term.

EMPLOYEES

The Hartford has approximately 19,500 employees as of December 31, 2019.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company’s Internet address is www.thehartford.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on the investor relations section of our website, https://ir.thehartford.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov. References in this report to our website address are provided only as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS