ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.”

The following generally discusses 2019 and 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018. Discussion of historical items in 2017, and year-to-year comparisons between 2018 and 2017, can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, under Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Full-year 2019 net earnings were $1.2 billion ($3.07 per diluted share) compared with net earnings of $2.0 billion ($4.85 per diluted share) for full-year 2018. 

International Paper delivered solid earnings and outstanding cash generation in 2019. Our performance demonstrates our ability to generate strong cash flow and the flexibility of the company to navigate well through a challenging global environment. While the U.S. economy remains healthy, during 2019 we managed through significant inventory headwinds and broader trade tensions that impacted our exports. Against this backdrop, we focused on optimizing our full value chain by strengthening commercial offerings in faster growing packaging segments, running our manufacturing system well and leveraging the flexibility of our mill and converting system. We continued to grow value for our shareholders with returns above our cost of capital for a tenth consecutive year. Our capital allocation choices were consistent with our framework. In 2019, we returned $1.3 billion to shareholders through dividends of about $800 million and share repurchases of about $500 million. The Company also increased its dividend for the tenth consecutive year, reinforcing our policy of a strong and sustainable dividend. We also repaid approximately $1 billion of debt during 2019 as part of our commitment to a strong balance sheet and to maintain an investment 

grade rating. We continued to invest strategically to strengthen our Industrial Packaging business. In our North American corrugated packaging business, we made targeted investments to enhance our capabilities and reinforce our strong position in the fastest growing segments. In our EMEA Packaging business, we completed selective acquisitions to expand our converting network around the Madrid, Spain mill. Lastly, in January 2020, we monetized approximately 19% of our investment in Graphic Packaging in exchange for $250 million.

Compared to 2018, the Company’s 2019 results reflect the impact of a challenging global environment, which resulted in price and mix being a headwind, mostly due to significant price pressure in export pulp and containerboard markets, as well as the price impact of index movements in our North American Industrial Packaging business. Volume negatively impacted 2019 results due to challenging export markets. In particular, export containerboard volume was impacted by unusually high customer inventories at the start of 2019 which took most of the year to normalize. Operations and costs were impacted by significant economic downtime, particularly in the first half of 2019, due to lower export shipments and our ability to reduce inventories across our North American Industrial Packaging system due to improved supply chain operations. Input costs were favorable for the full year, primarily from lower recovered fiber and energy costs. Even though wood costs moderated in the second half of 2019, they had a negative impact on earnings in 2019. Equity earnings decreased in 2019 due to lower Ilim earnings, driven by the challenging global pulp market dynamics. 

Looking ahead to the first quarter 2020, as compared to the fourth quarter of 2019, in our Industrial Packaging business, we expect lower price and mix on the flow-through of prior price index movements. Volume is expected to be seasonally lower in North America. Operations and costs are expected to be negatively impacted by the non-repeat of a favorable inventory valuation adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, as well as higher unabsorbed fixed costs associated with the Riverdale mill conversion. Maintenance outage expense is expected to be higher, and input costs are expected to be higher seasonally. In our Global Cellulose Fibers business, we expect lower price and mix on the impact of prior price index movements. Volume is expected to improve driven by higher fluff pulp shipments. Operations and costs are expected to negatively impact earnings due to the non-repeat of favorable items recognized in the fourth quarter. Maintenance outage expenses are expected to increase while input costs are expected to remain stable. In our Printing Papers business, flow-through of prior negative price movement is expected to be offset by improved geographic mix. Volume is expected to be down mostly due to seasonally lower volumes in Brazil. Operations and costs are 

19
expected to have a favorable impact on earnings mostly due to the non-repeat of an unfavorable inventory valuation adjustment recognized in the fourth quarter, as well as improved fixed cost absorption in North America. Maintenance outage expenses are expected to increase while input costs should remain stable. Lastly, we expect lower equity earnings from our Ilim joint venture on the non-repeat of the fourth quarter foreign exchange gain.

Looking ahead to the full-year 2020, we expect to generate solid cash flows despite earnings headwinds, by continuing to leverage the flexibility of the company to manage costs, capital spending and working capital. Earnings are expected to be negatively impacted by price carryover from 2019, as well as the impact of the January 2020 containerboard index movement. Earnings are also expected to be negatively impacted by higher planned maintenance outage expense and costs related to the Riverdale conversion, including unabsorbed fixed costs during the conversion process. We plan to offset anticipated inflation through deliberate improvement initiatives. The fundamentals of our packaging and fluff pulp businesses are solid - we believe we are well positioned to capture growth while continuing to optimize the Company’s value chain to position us with positive momentum as we navigate through 2020. Lastly, we intend to continue to make choices for the use of the Company’s strong cash generation that are consistent with our capital allocation framework in order to drive long-term value creation.

Adjusted Operating Earnings and Adjusted Operating Earnings Per Share are non-GAAP measures and are defined as net earnings from continuing operations (a GAAP measure) excluding special items and non-operating pension expense. Net earnings (loss) and Diluted earnings (loss) per share attributable to common shareholders are the most directly comparable GAAP measures. The Company calculates Adjusted Operating Earnings by excluding the after-tax effect of non-operating pension expense, items considered by management to be unusual (special items) and discontinued operations from the earnings reported under GAAP. Adjusted Operating Earnings Per Share is calculated by dividing Adjusted Operating Earnings by diluted average shares of common stock outstanding. Management uses this measure to focus on on-going operations, and believes that it is useful to investors because it enables them to perform meaningful comparisons of past and present consolidated operating results. The Company believes that using this information, along with the most direct comparable GAAP measure, provides for a more complete analysis of the results of operations. 

The following are reconciliations of Earnings (loss) attributable to common shareholders to Adjusted operating earnings (loss) attributable to common shareholders. Additional detail is provided later in this Form 10-K regarding the special items referenced in the charts below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

20
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash provided by operations totaled $3.6 billion and $3.2 billion for 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company generated Free Cash Flow of approximately $2.3 billion and $1.7 billion in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is cash provided by operations. Management believes that free cash flow is useful to investors as a liquidity measure because it measures the amount of cash generated that is available, after reinvesting in the business, to maintain a strong balance sheet, pay dividends, repurchase stock, service debt and make investments for future growth. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. By adjusting for certain items that are not indicative of the Company's ongoing underlying operational performance, we believe that free cash flow also enables investors to perform meaningful comparisons between past and present periods.

 The following are reconciliations of free cash flow to cash provided by operations: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this Form 10-K as referenced above have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results calculated in accordance with GAAP. In addition, because not all companies utilize identical calculations, the Company’s presentation of non-GAAP measures in this Form 10-K may not be comparable to similarly titled measures disclosed by other companies, including companies in the same industry as the Company.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Business Segment Operating Profits are used by International Paper’s management to measure the earnings performance of its businesses. Management uses this measure to focus on on-going operations and believes that it is useful to investors because it enables them to perform meaningful comparisons of past and present operating results. International Paper believes that using this information, along with net earnings, provides a more complete analysis of the results of operations by year. Business Segment Operating Profits are defined as earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity earnings, but including the impact of equity earnings and noncontrolling interests, excluding interest expense, net, corporate items, net, special items, net, and non-operating pension expense. Business Segment Operating Profits is a measure reported to our management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to our business segments and assessing the performance of our business segments and is presented in our financial statement footnotes in accordance with ASC 280. 

International Paper operates in three segments: Industrial Packaging, Global Cellulose Fibers and Printing Papers. 

21
The following table presents a comparison of net earnings (loss) from continuing operations attributable to International Paper Company to its total Business Segment Operating Profit: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Business Segment Operating Profit in 2019 was $483 million lower than in 2018 as the benefits from lower input costs ($78 million) and lower maintenance outage costs ($30 million) were more than offset by lower average sales price realizations and mix ($161 million), lower sales volumes ($118 million) and higher operating costs ($312 million). 

The principal changes in operating profit by business segment were as follows:

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

For the year ended December 31, 2019, International Paper generated $3.6 billion of cash flow from operations compared with $3.2 billion in 2018. Capital spending for 2019 totaled $1.3 billion, or 98% of depreciation and amortization expense. Our liquidity position remains strong, supported by approximately $2.1 billion of credit facilities. 

We expect another year of solid cash generation in 2020. Furthermore, we intend to continue to make choices for the use cash that are consistent with our capital allocation framework to drive long-term value creation. These include maintaining a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit rating, returning meaningful cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and making organic investments to maintain our world-class system and strengthen our packaging business. Capital spending for 2020 is planned at approximately $1.0 billion, or about 74% of depreciation and amortization, including approximately $250 million of strategic investments.

Under our share repurchase program most recently approved by our Board of Directors on October 9, 2018, which does not have an expiration date, approximately $1.75 billion aggregate amount of shares of common stock remains authorized for purchase under this program. We may continue to repurchase shares under such authorization in open market transactions (including block trades), privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, restrictions in our debt documents, applicable securities laws requirements and other factors. In addition, we pay regular quarterly cash 

22
dividends and expect to continue to pay regular quarterly cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Each quarterly dividend is subject to review and approval by our Board of Directors, and is subject to restrictions in our debt documents.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

While the operating results for International Paper’s various business segments are driven by a number of business-specific factors, changes in International Paper’s operating results are closely tied to changes in general economic conditions in North America, Europe, Russia, Latin America, North Africa and the Middle East. (and were closely tied to general economic conditions in India prior to the sale of our controlling interest in International Paper APPM Limited, an India-based printing paper business, effective October 30, 2019).

Factors that impact the demand for our products include industrial non-durable goods production, consumer preferences, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels, and movements in currency exchange rates.

Product prices are affected by general economic trends, inventory levels, currency exchange rate movements and worldwide capacity utilization. In addition to these revenue-related factors, net earnings are impacted by various cost drivers, the more significant of which include changes in raw material costs, principally wood, recycled fiber and chemical costs; energy costs; freight costs; mill outage costs; salary and benefits costs, including pensions; and manufacturing conversion costs.

The following is a discussion of International Paper’s consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019, and the major factors affecting these results compared to 2018.

For the year ended December 31, 2019, International Paper reported net sales of $22.4 billion, compared with $23.3 billion in 2018. International net sales (based on the location of the seller and including U.S. exports) totaled $8.1 billion or 36% of total sales in 2019. This compares with international net sales of $8.8 billion in 2018.

Full year 2019 net earnings attributable to International Paper Company totaled $1.2 billion ($3.07 per diluted share), compared with net earnings of $2.0 billion ($4.85 per diluted share) in 2018. Amounts in 2018 include the results of discontinued operations.

Earnings from continuing operations attributable to International Paper Company after taxes in 2019 and 2018 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes $515 million of net special items charges which included tax expense of $203 million related to a foreign deferred tax valuation allowance and $28 million of non-operating pension expense.

(b)Includes $166 million of net special items charges and $371 million of non-operating pension expense which included a pre-tax charge of $424 million ($318 million after taxes) for a settlement accounting charge associated with an annuity purchase and transfer of pension obligations for approximately 23,000 retirees.

Compared with 2018, the benefits from lower input costs ($59 million), lower maintenance outage costs ($23 million), lower corporate and other costs ($8 million) and lower net interest expense ($32 million) were more than offset by lower average sales price and an unfavorable mix ($122 million), lower sales volumes ($89 million), higher operating costs ($235 million) and higher tax expense ($26 million). In addition, 2019 results included lower equity earnings, net of taxes, relating to the Company’s investments in Ilim and GPIP.

See Business Segment Results on pages 26 through 29 for a discussion of the impact of these factors by segment.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

2018: In 2018, discontinued operations included an after-tax gain of $364 million on the transfer of the North American Consumer Packaging business and after-tax charges of $19 million for costs associated with the transfer. See Note 8 Divestitures and Impairments on pages 56 through 58 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion.

23
INCOME TAXES

A net income tax provision of $634 million was recorded for 2019, including tax expense of $203 million related to a foreign deferred tax valuation allowance, a tax benefit of $53 million related to internal investment restructuring, tax expense of $9 million related to a non U.S. tax rate change, tax expense of $3 million related to foreign tax audits and a tax benefit of $3 million related to state income tax legislative changes. Excluding these items, a $53 million net tax benefit for other special items and a $8 million tax benefit related to non-operating pension expense, the operational tax provision was $536 million, or 26% of pre-tax earnings before equity earnings.

A net income tax provision of $445 million was recorded for 2018, including a tax benefit of $36 million to revise our 2017 estimated tax related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, tax expense of $25 million related to foreign tax audits, tax expense of $19 million related to an international investment restructuring and tax expense of $9 million related to state income tax legislative changes. Excluding these items, a $65 million net tax benefit for other special items and a $123 million tax benefit related to non-operating pension expense, the operational tax provision was $616 million, or 25% of pre-tax earnings before equity earnings.

EQUITY EARNINGS, NET OF TAXES

Equity earnings, net of taxes, consisted principally of the Company’s share of earnings from its 50% investment in Ilim of $207 million and $290 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and from its then 21.6% ownership interest in GPIP of $46 million in 2019, and from its then 20.5% ownership interest of $46 million in 2018 (see page 29).

INTEREST EXPENSE AND NONCONTROLLING INTEREST

Net corporate interest expense totaled $491 million in 2019 and $536 million in 2018. Net interest expense in 2019 includes $3 million of interest income associated with a foreign value-added tax refund accrual and $1 million of interest expense related to foreign tax audits. The decrease in 2019 compared with 2018 was due to lower average outstanding debt. 

Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests were a loss of $5 million in 2019, compared with earnings of $5 million in 2018. The decrease in 2019 was primarily due to the allocation of loss of $9 million associated with the impairment of the net assets of our India Papers business. 

SPECIAL ITEMS

Restructuring and Other Charges, Net

International Paper continually evaluates its operations for improvement opportunities targeted to (a) focus our portfolio on our core businesses, (b) realign capacity to operate fewer facilities with the same revenue capability, (c) close high cost facilities, and (d) reduce costs. 

During 2019 and 2018, pre-tax restructuring and other charges, net, totaling $57 million and $29 million were recorded. Details of these charges were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Recorded in the Industrial Packaging business segment.

(b) Includes $6 million recorded in the Printing Papers business segment and $4 million recorded in the Global Cellulose Fibers business segment.

(c) Recorded in the Printing Papers business segment.

24
Other Special Items

In addition, other pre-tax special items totaling $158 million and $63 million were recorded in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Details of these charges were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Recorded in the Industrial Packaging business segment.

(b) Includes $35 million and $20 million recorded in the Industrial Packaging business segment for 2019 and 2018, respectively; $12 million and $11 million recorded in the Global Cellulose Fibers business segment for 2019 and 2018, respectively; $3 million and $1 million recorded in the Printing Papers business segment for 2019 and 2018, respectively.

(c) Recorded in the Printing Papers business segment.

(d) Includes expense of $2 million recorded in the Industrial Packaging business segment and income of $3 million recorded in the Printing Papers business segment.

Net Losses on Sales and Impairments of Businesses

Net losses on sales and impairments of businesses included in special items totaled a pre-tax loss of $205 million and $122 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Details of these losses were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 8 Divestitures and Impairments on pages 56 through 58 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS

International Paper’s business segments discussed below are consistent with the internal structure used to manage these businesses. All segments are differentiated on a common product, common customer basis consistent with the business segmentation generally used in the forest products industry.

INDUSTRIAL PACKAGING

International Paper is the largest manufacturer of containerboard in the United States. Our U.S. production capacity is over 13 million tons annually. Our products include linerboard, medium, whitetop, recycled linerboard, recycled medium and saturating kraft. About 80% of our production is converted into corrugated boxes and other packaging by our 175 North American container plants. Additionally, we recycle approximately 

one million tons of OCC and mixed and white paper through our 18 recycling plants. Our container plants are 

supported by regional design centers, which offer total packaging solutions and supply chain initiatives. In EMEA, our operations include one recycled fiber containerboard mill in Morocco, a recycled containerboard mill in Spain and 28 container plants in France, Italy, Spain, Morocco, Turkey and Portugal. In Brazil, our operations include three containerboard mills and four box plants. 

International Paper also produces high quality coated paperboard for a variety of packaging end uses with 443,000 tons of annual capacity at our mills in Poland and Russia.

GLOBAL CELLULOSE FIBERS

Our cellulose fibers product portfolio includes fluff, market and specialty pulps. International Paper is the largest producer of fluff pulp which is used to make absorbent hygiene products like baby diapers, feminine care, adult incontinence and other non-woven products. Our market pulp is used for tissue and paper products. We continue to invest in exploring new innovative uses for our products, such as our specialty pulps, which are used for non-absorbent end uses including textiles, filtration, construction material, paints and coatings, reinforced plastics and more. Our products are made in the United States, Canada, France, Poland, and Russia and are sold around the world. International Paper facilities have annual dried pulp capacity of about 4 million metric tons.

25
PRINTING PAPERS

International Paper is one of the world’s largest producers of printing and writing papers. The primary product in this segment is uncoated papers. This business produces papers for use in copiers, desktop and laser printers and digital imaging. End-use applications include advertising and promotional materials such as brochures, pamphlets, greeting cards, books, annual reports and direct mail. Uncoated papers also produces a variety of grades that are converted by our customers into envelopes, tablets, business forms and file folders. Uncoated papers are sold under private label and International Paper brand names that include Hammermill, Springhill, Williamsburg, Postmark, Accent, Great White, Chamex, Ballet, Rey, Pol, and Svetocopy. The mills producing uncoated papers are located in the United States, France, Poland, Russia and Brazil. The mills have uncoated paper production capacity of over 4 million tons annually. Brazilian operations function through International Paper do Brasil, Ltda, which owns or manages approximately 329,000 acres of forestlands in Brazil.

ILIM

In October 2007, International Paper and Ilim completed a 50:50 joint venture to operate a pulp and paper business located in Russia. Ilim’s facilities include three paper mills located in Bratsk, Ust-Ilimsk, and Koryazhma, Russia, with combined total pulp and paper capacity of over 3.5 million metric tons. Ilim has exclusive harvesting rights on timberland and forest areas exceeding 19.5 million acres (7.88 million hectares).

GPIP 

On January 1, 2018, the Company completed the transfer of its North American Consumer Packaging business, which includes its North American Coated Paperboard and Foodservice businesses, to Graphic Packaging International Partners, LLC (GPIP), a subsidiary of Graphic Packaging Holding Company, in exchange for a 20.5% ownership interest in GPIP. GPIP subsequently transferred the North American Consumer Packaging business to Graphic Packaging International, LLC (GPI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of GPIP that holds the assets of the combined business. 

On January 29, 2020, the Company exchanged approximately 19.0% of the aggregate units owned by the Company for an aggregated price of $250 million. After this transaction, the Company's ownership percentage in GPIP is approximately 18.3%. The Company expects to record a gain on the exchange in the first quarter of 2020.

Products and brand designations appearing in italics are trademarks of International Paper or a related company.

BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS

The following tables present net sales and operating profit (loss) which is the Company's measure of segment profitability.

INDUSTRIAL PACKAGING

Demand for Industrial Packaging products is closely correlated with non-durable industrial goods production, as well as with demand for processed foods, poultry, meat and agricultural products. In addition to prices and volumes, major factors affecting the profitability of Industrial Packaging are raw material and energy costs, freight costs, mill outage costs, manufacturing efficiency and product mix. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Industrial Packaging net sales for 2019 decreased 4% to $15.3 billion compared with $15.9 billion in 2018. Operating profits in 2019 were 9% lower than in 2018. Comparing 2019 with 2018, benefits from lower input costs ($124 million) and lower maintenance outage costs ($22 million) were more than offset by lower average sales price and an unfavorable mix ($61 million), lower sales volumes ($107 million) and higher operating costs ($179 million). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes intra-segment sales of $118 million for 2019 and $233 million for 2018.

North American Industrial Packaging's sales volumes decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 for export containerboard, primarily due to customer destocking as customers exited 2018 with high inventory levels which persisted through the first half of 2019. Box shipments were also lower, reflecting weaker demand and the impact of customer gains and losses. In 2019, the business took about 1.4 million tons of total maintenance and economic downtime compared with 0.5 million tons of total downtime in 2018. Average sales prices were significantly lower primarily due to lower export containerboard prices, which were partially offset by higher sales prices for boxes. Input costs were substantially lower, primarily for recycled fiber. Planned maintenance downtime costs were $23 million lower in 2019 than in 2018. Operating costs increased due to inflation, but were mostly offset by strong mill manufacturing operations. Earnings benefited from a favorable inventory valuation adjustment in 2019, compared with an unfavorable inventory valuation adjustment in 2018.

26
Looking ahead to the first quarter of 2020, compared with the fourth quarter of 2019, sales volumes for boxes are expected to be seasonally lower. Shipments of containerboard to export markets are also expected to be lower. Average sales margins for boxes are expected to be lower, reflecting the recent price index movements. Input costs, primarily for wood and energy, are expected to be relatively flat. Planned maintenance downtime costs are expected to be about $90 million higher as we move into a high maintenance outage quarter. Operating costs are anticipated to be higher, reflecting the impact of unabsorbed fixed costs related to the Riverdale conversion.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EMEA Industrial Packaging's sales volumes in 2019 were lower than in 2018, reflecting weaker economic conditions in Turkey and a slower fruit and vegetable season in Morocco. Average sales margins improved significantly in all regions driven by lower containerboard costs and stable sales prices for boxes. Other input costs were flat. Planned maintenance downtime costs were also flat. Operating costs were lower due to the ramp-up of the Madrid, Spain mill and the benefits of our optimization initiatives, partially offset by inflation in Turkey. Earnings also benefited from the box plant acquisitions completed in the first half of 2019. Earnings were negatively affected by unfavorable foreign currency impacts, primarily in Turkey. 

Entering the first quarter of 2020, compared with the fourth quarter of 2019, sales volumes are expected to be seasonally higher. Average sales margins are expected to be slightly higher reflecting lower containerboard costs. Planned maintenance downtime costs are expected to be about $3 million higher. Input costs should be stable. Operating costs are expected to be higher, driven by inflation. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Brazilian Industrial Packaging's sales volumes increased in 2019 compared with 2018 for boxes and containerboard. Average sales margins improved reflecting higher average sales prices and a favorable mix. Input costs increased, primarily for utilities, recycled fiber, wood and chemicals. Operating costs were lower. Planned maintenance downtime costs were $1 million higher in 2019, compared with 2018.

Looking ahead to the first quarter of 2020, compared with the fourth quarter of 2019, sales volumes are expected to be lower for both boxes and containerboard. Average sales margins are expected to be stable. Input costs are expected to be flat. Operating costs are expected to be stable.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

European Coated Paperboard's sales volumes in 2019 compared with 2018 increased in both Europe and Russia. Average sales margins were higher reflecting higher average sales prices net of an unfavorable mix in Europe and higher average sales prices and a favorable mix in Russia. Input costs were stable as lower purchased pulp and energy costs in Europe were offset by higher energy costs in Russia and higher wood and chemicals costs in Europe. Planned maintenance downtime costs were flat. Operating costs were higher. Earnings were negatively affected by unfavorable foreign currency impacts in both Europe and Russia.

Looking forward to the first quarter of 2020, compared with the fourth quarter of 2019, sales volumes are expected to be stable as higher volumes in Europe are offset by lower volumes in Russia. Average sales margins are expected to be higher in both regions. Input costs are expected to be flat in Europe and higher in Russia, primarily for wood and chemicals. Maintenance outage costs are expected to be flat due to no outages in the fourth quarter and no planned outages in the first quarter. Operating costs are expected to be lower.

GLOBAL CELLULOSE FIBERS

Demand for Cellulose Fibers products is closely correlated with changes in demand for absorbent hygiene products, primarily driven by the demographics and income growth in various geographic regions. It is further affected by changes in currency rates that can benefit or hurt producers in different geographic regions. Principal cost drivers include manufacturing efficiency, raw material and energy costs, mill outage costs, and freight costs.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Global Cellulose Fibers net sales for 2019 decreased 10% to $2.6 billion, compared with $2.8 billion in 2018. Operating profits in 2019 were significantly lower than in 2018. Comparing 2019 with 2018, benefits from higher sales volumes ($3 million), lower input costs ($8 million) and lower maintenance outage costs ($16 million) were 

27
more than offset by lower average sales price and mix ($216 million) and higher operating costs ($79 million). 

Sales volumes in 2019 compared with 2018 were lower as higher market pulp volumes were more than offset by lower fluff pulp volumes. In 2019, the business took about 300,000 tons of total maintenance and economic downtime compared with about 180,000 tons of total downtime in 2018. Average sales margins were significantly lower, reflecting lower average pulp prices driven by very challenging supply and demand conditions outside the U.S. Average sales margins were also negatively affected by an unfavorable product mix reflecting a decrease in sales of fluff pulp. Input costs were flat. Planned maintenance downtime costs were $16 million lower in 2019. Operating costs increased primarily due to inflation and an unfavorable mill manufacturing mix. In Europe and Russia, sales volumes increased. Average sales prices decreased significantly in both regions. Input costs were higher for wood, chemicals and purchased pulp in Europe and chemicals and energy in Russia. Planned maintenance downtime costs were flat.

Entering the first quarter of 2020, compared with the fourth quarter of 2019, sales volumes are expected to be slightly higher, primarily for fluff pulp. Average sales margins are expected to be lower, reflecting the impact of prior price index movement. Input costs are expected to be stable. Planned maintenance downtime costs are expected to be $27 million higher than in the fourth quarter of 2019. Operating costs are expected to increase due to seasonality and higher distribution costs. In Europe, sales volumes are expected to be slightly higher and stable in Russia. Average sales margins are expected to be be higher in both regions. Planned maintenance downtime costs are expected to be about $7 million lower in the first quarter of 2020 in Europe and Rusia. 

PRINTING PAPERS

Demand for Printing Papers products is closely correlated with changes in commercial printing and advertising activity, direct mail volumes and, for uncoated cut-size products, with changes in white-collar employment levels that affect the usage of copy and laser printer paper. Principal cost drivers include manufacturing efficiency, raw material and energy costs, mill outage costs and freight costs.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Printing Papers net sales for 2019 of $4.3 billion decreased 2%, compared with $4.4 billion in 2018. Operating profits in 2019 were 3% lower than in 2018. Comparing 2019 with 2018, benefits from higher average 

sales price realizations, net of mix ($116 million), were more than offset by lower sales volumes ($14 million), higher operating costs ($54 million), higher input costs ($54 million) and higher planned maintenance downtime costs ($8 million). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

North American Printing Papers' sales volumes for 2019 were lower than in 2018, primarily for commercial printing paper. In 2019, the business took about 125,000 tons of total maintenance and economic downtime compared with about 48,000 tons of total downtime in 2018. Average sales margins improved due to the realization of sales price increases for both cutsize paper and rolls, net of an unfavorable geographic mix. Input costs were higher, primarily for wood. Planned maintenance downtime costs were $4 million higher in 2019. Operating costs were higher primarily due to inflation and an unfavorable manufacturing mix, mostly offset by lower distribution costs and favorable mill operations. Earnings were negatively impacted by an unfavorable inventory valuation adjustment in 2019.

Entering the first quarter of 2020, compared with the fourth quarter of 2019, sales volumes are expected to be lower, primarily for export markets. Average sales margins are expected to be stable. Input costs are expected to be stable. Operating costs are expected to be higher due to seasonality and inflation. Earnings are expected to benefit from the non-repeat of an unfavorable inventory valuation adjustment in the fourth quarter of 2019. Planned maintenance downtime costs are expected to increase by about $29 million in the first quarter of 2020. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes intra-segment sales of $42 million for 2019 and $13 million for 2018.

Brazilian Papers' sales volumes for uncoated freesheet paper in 2019, were higher compared with 2018 for export markets but lower for domestic markets. Average sales margins were lower as higher average domestic sales prices were more than offset by lower average export sales prices and an unfavorable geographic mix. Input costs increased, primarily for virgin fiber, chemicals and energy. Manufacturing costs were lower, but were offset by higher other operating costs. Planned maintenance downtime costs were $1 million lower in 2019.

Looking ahead to the first quarter of 2020, compared with the fourth quarter of 2019, sales volumes for uncoated 

28
freesheet paper are expected to be seasonally lower. Average sales margins are expected to decrease, primarily due to an unfavorable geographic mix. Input costs are expected to be stable. Planned maintenance outage costs are expected to be about $3 million lower in the first quarter of 2020. Operating costs are expected to be lower.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

European Papers' sales volumes for uncoated freesheet paper in 2019 were higher in Europe and Russia compared with 2018. Average sales margins increased for uncoated freesheet paper in both regions, reflecting the realization of price increases implemented throughout 2018 and 2019. Input costs were higher for wood and chemicals in Europe and chemicals and energy in Russia. Planned maintenance downtime costs were $3 million higher in 2019 than in 2018. Operating costs were higher. Earnings were negatively affected by unfavorable foreign currency impacts in both regions.

Entering 2020, sales volumes for uncoated freesheet paper in the first quarter are expected to increase in Europe, but expected to decrease in Russia, compared to the fourth quarter of 2019. Average sales margins are expected to be lower in Europe and stable in Russia. Input costs should be higher in both regions, mainly for chemicals in Europe and wood and chemicals in Russia. Maintenance outage costs should be about $9 million lower due to no planned outages in the first quarter. Operating costs are expected to be lower.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On May 29, 2019, International Paper announced it had entered into an agreement to sell its controlling interest in its Indian Papers business. The transaction closed on October 30, 2019. See Note 8 Divestitures and Impairments on pages 56 through 58 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion.

EQUITY EARNINGS, NET OF TAXES - ILIM

International Paper accounts for its investment in Ilim , a separate reportable industry segment, using the equity method of accounting.

The Company recorded equity earnings, net of taxes, related to Ilim of $207 million in 2019, compared with earnings of $290 million in 2018. Operating results recorded in 2019 included an after-tax non-cash foreign exchange gain of $32 million, compared with an after-tax 

foreign exchange loss of $82 million in 2018, primarily on the remeasurement of Ilim's U.S. dollar denominated net debt.

Coming off of a strong market in 2018, sales volumes for the joint venture decreased by 3% in 2019, primarily for containerboard shipments to China, Russia and other export markets. Shipments of softwood pulp and hardwood pulp to China were slightly higher, but fell below prior year levels in Russia and other export markets. Average sales price realizations were significantly lower for sales of softwood pulp, hardwood pulp and containerboard in all markets. Input costs were higher, primarily for wood, chemicals and fuel. Distribution costs were negatively impacted by transportation tariffs and inflation. Ilim completed two major capital projects in 2019: the rebuild of the kraft linerboard line at its Bratsk mill and the modernization of a pulp line at the Ust Ilmsk mill. The Company received cash dividends from the joint venture of $246 million in 2019 and $128 million in 2018.

Entering the first quarter of 2020, sales volumes are expected to be lower than in the fourth quarter of 2019, due to the seasonal slowdown in China. Based on pricing to date in the current quarter, average sales prices are expected to decrease for softwood pulp, hardwood pulp and containerboard. Input costs and distribution costs are projected to be relatively flat.

EQUITY EARNINGS - GPIP

International Paper recorded equity earnings of $46 million in 2019 and $46 million in 2018 on its ownership position in GPIP. The Company received cash dividends from the investment of $27 million in 2019 and $25 million in 2018.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

OVERVIEW

A major factor in International Paper’s liquidity and capital resource planning is its generation of operating cash flow, which is highly sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our major products. While changes in key operating cash costs, such as raw material, energy, mill outage and distribution, do have an effect on operating cash generation, we believe that our focus on commercial and operational excellence, as well as our ability to tightly manage costs and working capital has improved our cash flow generation over an operating cycle.

Use of cash during 2019 was primarily focused on capital spending, debt reduction and returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases under the Company's share repurchase program.

29
CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Cash provided by operations, including discontinued operations, totaled $3.6 billion in 2019, compared with $3.2 billion for 2018. Cash provided by working capital components (accounts receivable, contract assets and inventory less accounts payable and accrued liabilities, interest payable and other) totaled $342 million in 2019, compared with cash used by working capital components of $439 million in 2018. Cash dividends received from equity investments were $273 million in 2019, compared with $153 million in 2018. 

INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES

Including discontinued operations, the cash outflow from investment activities in 2019 decreased from 2018, as 2018 included higher capital spending. The Company maintains an average capital spending target around depreciation and amortization levels, or modestly above, due to strategic plans over the course of an economic cycle. Capital spending was $1.3 billion in 2019, or 98% of depreciation and amortization, compared with $1.6 billion in 2018, or 118% of depreciation and amortization. Across our segments, capital spending as a percentage of depreciation and amortization ranged from 61.6% to 116.1% in 2019.

The following table shows capital spending by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capital spending in 2020 is expected to be approximately $1.0 billion, or 74% of depreciation and amortization, including approximately $250 million of strategic investments. The expected reduction in capital spending in 2020 is primarily due to the completion of large strategic investments in our containerboard mill system, including the Madrid, Spain mill and the Riverdale mill conversions, which is expected to be completed in the first half of 2020.

Acquisitions 

See Note 7 Acquisitions on page 56 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a discussion of the Company's acquisitions.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Amounts related to early debt extinguishment during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Amounts are included in Restructuring and other charges in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

2019: Financing activities during 2019 included debt issuances of $534 million and reductions of $1.5 billion for a net decrease of $973 million.

In June 2019, International Paper issued $200 million of 3.55% senior unsecured notes with a maturity date in 2029. The proceeds from this offering, together with a combination of available cash and other borrowings, were used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of outstanding commercial paper borrowings and other existing indebtedness.

In October 2019, International Paper issued $127 million of environmental development bonds with interest rates ranging from 1.90% to 2.10% and maturity dates in 2024. The proceeds from this offering were used to repay other existing environmental development bonds.

In June 2018, the borrowing capacity of the commercial paper program was increased from $750 million to $1.0 billion. Under the terms of the program, individual maturities on borrowings may vary, but may not exceed one year from the date of issuance. Interest bearing notes may be issued either as fixed notes or floating rate notes. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company had $30 million and $465 million, respectively, outstanding under this program.

Other financing activities during 2019 included the net repurchase of approximately 8.5 million shares of treasury stock, including restricted stock tax withholding. Repurchases of common stock and payments of restricted stock withholding taxes totaled $535 million, including $485 million related to shares repurchased under the Company's share repurchase program. On October 9, 2018, the Company announced an authorization to repurchase $2 billion of the Company's common stock to supplement remaining amounts under prior share repurchase authorizations, bringing total share repurchase authorizations since 2013 to $5.0 billion. The Company will continue to repurchase such shares in open market repurchase transactions. Under the $5.0 billion share repurchase program, the Company has repurchased 68.9 million shares at an average price 

30
of $47.23, for a total of approximately $3.3 billion, as of December 31, 2019.

In October 2019, International Paper announced that the quarterly dividend would be increased from $0.50 per share to $0.5125 per share, effective for the 2019 fourth quarter.

2018: Financing activities during 2018 included debt issuances of $490 million and retirements of $1.0 billion for a net decrease of $518 million.

Other financing activities during 2018 included the net repurchase of approximately 12.3 million shares of treasury stock, including restricted stock tax withholding. Repurchases of common stock and payments of restricted stock withholding taxes totaled $732 million, including $700 million related to shares repurchased under the Company's share repurchase program.

In October 2018, International Paper announced that the quarterly dividend would be increased from $0.4750 per share to $0.50 per share, effective for the 2018 fourth quarter.

Interest Rate Swaps

International Paper utilizes interest rate swaps to change the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and manage interest expense. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, International Paper had interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $700 million and maturities ranging from 2024 to 2026 (see Note 17 Derivatives and Hedging Activities on pages 71 through 75 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). During 2019 and 2018, the inclusion of the offsetting interest income from short-term investments reduced the effective interest rate from 4.8% to 4.4% and from 4.8% to 4.6%, respectively.

Variable Interest Entities

Information concerning variable interest entities is set forth in Note 15 Variable Interest Entities on pages 68 through 70 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In connection with the 2006 International Paper installment sale of forestlands, we received $4.8 billion of installment notes. These installment notes were used by variable interest entities as collateral for borrowings from third-party lenders. These variable interest entities were restructured in 2015 when the installment notes and third-party loans were extended. The restructured variable interest entities hold installment notes of $4.8 billion that mature in August 2021 (unless extended) and third-party loans of $4.2 billion that mature in the fourth quarter of 2020 (unless extended). These third-party loans are shown in Current nonrecourse financial liabilities of variable interest entities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. We are evaluating alternatives for extending the installment notes and refinancing the third-party loans. 

Failure to extend, renew or refinance these third-party loans prior to their stated maturity, which we believe is unlikely, could necessitate a disposition of the installment notes to facilitate the $4.2 billion debt payment, which we are confident could be achieved.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OUTLOOK FOR 2020

Capital Expenditures and Long-Term Debt

International Paper expects to be able to meet projected capital expenditures, service existing debt and meet working capital and dividend requirements during 2020 with current cash balances and cash from operations. Additionally, the Company has existing credit facilities totaling $2.1 billion at December 31, 2019.

The Company will continue to rely upon debt and capital markets for the majority of any necessary long-term funding not provided by operating cash flows. Funding decisions will be guided by our capital structure planning objectives. The primary goals of the Company’s capital structure planning are to maximize financial flexibility and preserve liquidity while reducing interest expense. The majority of International Paper’s debt is accessed through global public capital markets where we have a wide base of investors. The Company was in compliance with all its debt covenants at December 31, 2019, and was well below the thresholds stipulated under the covenants as defined in our credit agreements.

Maintaining an investment grade credit rating is an important element of International Paper’s financing strategy. At December 31, 2019, the Company held long-term credit ratings of BBB (stable outlook) and Baa2 (stable outlook) by S&P and Moody’s, respectively.

Contractual obligations for future payments under existing debt and lease commitments and purchase obligations at December 31, 2019, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Not included in the above table due to the uncertainty of the amount and timing of the payment are unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $153 million. Also not included in the above table is $128 million of Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax associated with the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which will be settled from 2020 - 2026.

We consider the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019, to be permanently reinvested and, accordingly, no U.S. income taxes have 

31
been provided thereon (see Note 13 Income Taxes on pages 62 through 65 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). We do not anticipate the need to repatriate funds to the United States to satisfy domestic liquidity needs arising in the ordinary course of business, including liquidity needs associated with our domestic debt service requirements.

Pension Obligations and Funding

At December 31, 2019, the projected benefit obligation for the Company’s U.S. defined benefit plans determined under U.S. GAAP was approximately $1.5 billion higher than the fair value of plan assets, excluding non-U.S. plans. Approximately $1.2 billion of this amount relates to plans that are subject to minimum funding requirements. Under current IRS funding rules, the calculation of minimum funding requirements differs from the calculation of the present value of plan benefits (the projected benefit obligation) for accounting purposes. In December 2008, the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (WERA) was passed by the U.S. Congress which provided for pension funding relief and technical corrections. Funding contributions depend on the funding method selected by the Company, and the timing of its implementation, as well as on actual demographic data and the targeted funding level. The Company continually reassesses the amount and timing of any discretionary contributions elected not to make any voluntary contributions in 2018 or 2019. At this time, we do not expect to have any required contributions to our plans in 2020, although the Company may elect to make future voluntary contributions. The timing and amount of future contributions, which could be material, will depend on a number of factors, including the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. 

During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company entered into an agreement with The Prudential Insurance Company of America to purchase a group annuity contract and transfer approximately $1.6 billion of International Paper's U.S. qualified pension plan projected benefit obligations, subject to customary closing conditions. The transaction closed on October 2, 2018 and was funded with pension plan assets. Under the transaction, at the end of 2018, Prudential assumed responsibility for pension benefits and annuity administration for approximately 23,000 retirees or their beneficiaries receiving less than $1,000 in monthly benefit payments from the plan. Settlement accounting rules required a remeasurement of the qualified plan as of October 2, 2018 and the Company recognized a non-cash pension settlement charge of $424 million before tax in the fourth quarter of 2018.

ILIM SHAREHOLDER'S AGREEMENT

In October 2007, in connection with the formation of the Ilim joint venture, International Paper entered into a shareholder’s agreement that includes provisions relating to the reconciliation of disputes among the partners. This agreement provides that at any time, either the Company or its partners may commence procedures specified under the deadlock agreement. If these or any other deadlock procedures under the shareholder's agreement are commenced, although it is not obligated to do so, the Company may in certain situations choose to purchase its partners' 50% interest in Ilim. Any such transaction would be subject to review and approval by Russian and other relevant anti-trust authorities. Based on the provisions of the agreement, the Company estimates that the current purchase price for its partners' 50% interests would be approximately $1.6 billion, which could be satisfied by payment of cash or International Paper common stock, or some combination of the two, at the Company's option. The purchase by the Company of its partners’ 50% interest in Ilim would result in the consolidation of Ilim's financial position and results of operations in all subsequent periods. The parties have informed each other that they have no current intention to commence procedures specified under the deadlock provisions of the shareholder’s agreement.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires International Paper to establish accounting policies and to make estimates that affect both the amounts and timing of the recording of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Some of these estimates require subjective judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain.

Accounting policies whose application may have a significant effect on the reported results of operations and financial position of International Paper, and that can require judgments by management that affect their application, include the accounting for contingencies, impairment or disposal of long-lived assets and goodwill, pensions and income taxes. The Company has discussed the selection of critical accounting policies and the effect of significant estimates with the Audit and Finance Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors and with its independent registered public accounting firm.

CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

Accruals for contingent liabilities, including personal injury, product liability, environmental and other legal matters, are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset impaired and the amount 

32
of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities accrued for legal matters require judgments regarding projected outcomes and range of loss based on historical litigation and settlement experience and recommendations of legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. Liabilities for environmental matters require evaluations of relevant environmental regulations and estimates of future remediation alternatives and costs. The Company utilizes its in-house legal and environmental experts to develop estimates of its legal and environmental obligations, supplemented as needed by third-party specialists to analyze its most complex contingent liabilities.

We calculate our workers' compensation reserves based on estimated actuarially calculated development factors. The workers' compensation reserves are reviewed at least quarterly to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related financial statement disclosure. While we believe that our assumptions are appropriate, the ultimate settlement of workers' compensation reserves may differ significantly from amounts we have accrued in our consolidated financial statements.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND GOODWILL

An impairment of a long-lived asset exists when the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its fair value, and is recorded when the carrying amount is not recoverable through undiscounted cash flows from future operations or disposals. A goodwill impairment exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its fair value. Assessments of possible impairments of long-lived assets and goodwill are made when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable through future operations. Additionally, evaluation for possible impairment of goodwill is required annually. The amount and timing of any impairment charges based on these assessments may require the estimation of future cash flows or the fair market value of the related assets based on management’s best estimates of certain key factors, including future selling prices and volumes, operating, raw material, energy and freight costs, various other projected operating economic factors and other intended uses of the assets. As these key factors change in future periods, the Company will update its impairment analysis to reflect its latest estimates and projections.

ASU 2011-08, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," allows entities testing goodwill for impairment the option of performing a qualitative assessment before performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. If a qualitative assessment is performed, an entity is not required to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test unless the entity determines that, based on that qualitative assessment, it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying value.

The Company performed its annual testing of its reporting units for possible goodwill impairments by applying the qualitative assessment to its North America Industrial Packaging, European Papers, Russian Papers, and Brazilian Papers reporting units and the quantitative goodwill impairment test to its Global Cellulose Fibers and EMEA Industrial Packaging reporting units as of October 1, 2019. For this evaluation, the Company assessed various assumptions, events and circumstances that would have affected the estimated fair value of the reporting units under the qualitative assessment for the reporting units listed above and the result of the qualitative assessment indicated that it is not more likely than not that the fair values of its North America Industrial Packaging, European Papers, Russian Papers, and Brazilian Papers reporting units were less than their carrying values. 

The Company also performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test which included comparing the carrying amount of the Global Cellulose Fibers and EMEA Industrial Packaging reporting units to their estimated fair value. The Company performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test for Global Cellulose Fibers due to the reporting unit's outlook and for EMEA Industrial Packaging due to the changes in the reporting unit's asset base as a result of strategic capital projects and acquisitions since the previous quantitative goodwill impairment test. The Company calculated the estimated 

fair value of its Global Cellulose Fibers and EMEA Industrial Packaging reporting units using a probability-weighted approach based on discounted future cash flows, market multiples and transaction multiples. The carrying amount did not exceed the estimated fair value of the EMEA Industrial Packaging reporting unit. The carrying amount did exceed the estimated fair value of the Global Cellulose Fibers reporting unit, and it was determined that all of the goodwill in the reporting unit, totaling $52 million, was impaired. This impairment charge was recognized during the fourth quarter of 2019. The decline in the fair value of Global Cellulose Fibers and resulting impairment charge was due to a change in the outlook of the Global Cellulose Fibers reporting unit's operations. 

In addition, the Company considered whether there were any events or circumstances outside of the annual evaluation that would reduce the fair value of its reporting units below their carrying amounts and necessitate a goodwill impairment evaluation. In consideration of all relevant factors, there were no indicators that would require goodwill impairment subsequent to October 1, 2019.

No goodwill impairment charges were recorded in 2018.

During 2018, a determination was made that the current carrying value of the long-lived assets of the Brazil Packaging business exceeded their estimated fair value 

33
due to a change in the outlook for the business. Management engaged a third party to assist with determining the fair value of the business and the fixed assets. The fair value of the business was calculated using a probability-weighted approach based on discounted future cash flows, market multiples, and transaction multiples and the fair value of the fixed assets was determined using a market approach. As a result, a pre-tax charge of $122 million ($81 million, net of tax) was recorded related to the impairment of an intangible asset and fixed assets.

PENSION BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS

The charges recorded for pension benefit obligations are determined annually in conjunction with International Paper’s consulting actuary, and are dependent upon various assumptions including the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rates, projected future compensation increases and mortality rates.

The calculations of pension obligations and expenses require decisions about a number of key assumptions that can significantly affect liability and expense amounts, including the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate used to calculate plan liabilities.

Benefit obligations and fair values of plan assets as of December 31, 2019, for International Paper’s pension plan were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The table below shows assumptions used by International Paper to calculate U.S. pension obligations for the years shown:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

International Paper determines these actuarial assumptions, after consultation with our actuaries, on December 31 of each year or more frequently if required, to calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on projected rates of return for current asset classes in the plan’s investment portfolio. The discount rate assumption was determined based on a hypothetical settlement portfolio selected from a universe of high quality corporate bonds.

The expected long-term rate of return on U.S. pension plan assets used to determine net periodic cost for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 7.25%.

Increasing (decreasing) the expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets by an additional 0.25% would decrease (increase) 2020 pension expense by approximately $24 million, while a (decrease) increase of 0.25% in the discount rate would (increase) decrease pension expense by approximately $31 million.

Actual rates of return earned on U.S. pension plan assets for each of the last 10 years were: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The 2012, 2013 and 2014 returns above represent weighted averages of International Paper and Temple-Inland asset returns. International Paper and Temple-Inland assets were combined in October 2014. The annualized time-weighted rate of return earned on U.S. pension plan assets was 9.2% and 9.8% for the past five and ten years, respectively. 

ASC 715, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits,” provides for delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses, including amounts arising from changes in the estimated projected plan benefit obligation due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the actual and expected return on plan assets, and other assumption changes. These net gains and losses are recognized in pension expense prospectively over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the plans to the extent that they are not offset by gains and losses in subsequent years. 

Net periodic pension plan expenses, calculated for all of International Paper’s plans, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in 2019 pension expense primarily reflects lower service cost due to the salaried pension freeze, lower amortization and the absence of a settlement loss in the current year slightly offset by lower asset returns.

34
Assuming that discount rates, expected long-term returns on plan assets and rates of future compensation increases remain the same as of December 31, 2019, projected future net periodic pension plan expenses would be as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company estimates that it will record net pension expense of approximately $46 million for its U.S. defined benefit plans in 2020, compared to expense of $93 million in 2019. The estimated decrease in net pension expense in 2020 is primarily due to higher return on assets and lower interest cost partially offset by higher amortization of actuarial losses and higher service cost.

The market value of plan assets for International Paper’s U.S. qualified pension plan at December 31, 2019 totaled approximately $10.2 billion, consisting of approximately 37% equity securities, 50% debt securities, 8% real estate funds and 5% other assets. 

The Company’s funding policy for its qualified pension plans is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet legal funding requirements, plus any additional amounts that the Company may determine to be appropriate considering the funded status of the plan, tax deductibility, the cash flows generated by the Company, and other factors. The Company continually reassesses the amount and timing of any discretionary contributions and could elect to make voluntary contributions in the future. There were no required contributions to the U.S. qualified plan in 2019. The nonqualified defined benefit plans are funded to the extent of benefit payments, which totaled $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.

INCOME TAXES

International Paper records its global tax provision based on the respective tax rules and regulations for the jurisdictions in which it operates. Where the Company believes that a tax position is supportable for income tax purposes, the item is included in its income tax returns. Where treatment of a position is uncertain, liabilities are recorded based upon the Company’s evaluation of the “more likely than not” outcome considering technical merits of the position based on specific tax regulations and facts of each matter. Changes to recorded liabilities are only made when an identifiable event occurs that changes the likely outcome, such as settlement with the relevant tax authority, the expiration of statutes of limitation for the subject tax year, change in tax laws, or recent court cases that are relevant to the matter.

Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit 

will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the need for and magnitude of appropriate valuation allowances against deferred tax assets. The realization of these assets is dependent on generating future taxable income, as well as successful implementation of various tax planning strategies.

While International Paper believes that these judgments and estimates are appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances, actual resolution of these matters may differ from recorded estimated amounts.

RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS

See Note 2 Recent Accounting Developments on pages 50 through 52 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Information concerning the Company’s environmental and legal proceedings is set forth in Note 14 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities on pages 65 through 68 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

EFFECT OF INFLATION

While inflationary increases in certain input costs, such as energy, wood fiber and chemical costs, have an impact on the Company’s operating results, changes in general inflation have had minimal impact on our operating results in each of the last three years. Sales prices and volumes are more strongly influenced by economic supply and demand factors in specific markets and by exchange rate fluctuations than by inflationary factors.

FOREIGN CURRENCY EFFECTS

International Paper has operations in a number of countries. Its operations in those countries also export to, and compete with, imports from other regions. As such, currency movements can have a number of direct and indirect impacts on the Company’s financial statements. Direct impacts include the translation of international operations’ local currency financial statements into U.S. dollars and the remeasurement impact associated with non-functional currency financial assets and liabilities. Indirect impacts include the change in competitiveness of imports into, and exports out of, the United States (and the impact on local currency pricing of products that are traded internationally). In general, a weaker U.S. dollar and stronger local currency is beneficial to International Paper. The currencies that have the most impact are the Euro, the Brazilian real, the Polish zloty and the Russian ruble.

35
MARKET RISK

We use financial instruments, including fixed and variable rate debt, to finance operations, for capital spending programs and for general corporate purposes. Additionally, financial instruments, including various derivative contracts, are used to hedge exposures to interest rate, commodity and foreign currency risks. We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes. Information related to International Paper’s debt obligations is included in Note 16 Debt and Lines of Credit on pages 70 and 71 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. A discussion of derivatives and hedging activities is included in Note 17 Derivatives and Hedging Activities on pages 71 through 75 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The fair value of our debt and financial instruments varies due to changes in market interest and foreign currency rates and commodity prices since the inception of the related instruments. We assess this market risk utilizing a sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase and decrease) in interest and currency rates and commodity prices.

INTEREST RATE RISK

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to short- and long-term debt obligations and investments in marketable securities. We invest in investment-grade securities of financial institutions and money market mutual funds with a minimum rating of AAA and limit exposure to any one issuer or fund. Our investments in marketable securities at December 31, 2019 and 2018 are stated at cost, which approximates market due to their short-term nature. Our interest rate risk exposure related to these investments was not material.

We issue fixed and floating rate debt in a proportion that management deems appropriate based on current and projected market conditions. Derivative instruments, such as, interest rate swaps, may be used to execute this strategy. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the fair value of the net liability of financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was approximately $9.8 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively. The potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% adverse shift in quoted interest rates would have been approximately $511 million and $538 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

COMMODITY PRICE RISK

The objective of our commodity exposure management is to minimize volatility in earnings due to large fluctuations in the price of commodities. Commodity swap or forward purchase contracts may be used to manage risks associated with market fluctuations in energy prices. 

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

International Paper transacts business in many currencies and is also subject to currency exchange rate risk through investments and businesses owned and 

operated in foreign countries. Our objective in managing the associated foreign currency risks is to minimize the effect of adverse exchange rate fluctuations on our after-tax cash flows. We address these risks on a limited basis by entering into cross-currency interest rate swaps, or foreign exchange contracts. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the net fair value of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was approximately a $16 million asset and an $8 million liability, respectively. 

The potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would have been approximately $87 million and $29 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK