PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

International Paper Company (the Company or International Paper, which may also be referred to as we or us) is a global producer of renewable fiber-based packaging, pulp and paper products with manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, North Africa and Russia. We are a New York corporation, incorporated in 1941 as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.internationalpaper.com.

In the United States, at December 31, 2019, the Company operated 27 pulp, paper and packaging mills, 163 converting and packaging plants, 16 recycling plants and three bag facilities. Production facilities at December 31, 2019 in Canada, Europe, North Africa and Latin America included 14 pulp, paper and packaging mills, 44 converting and packaging plants, and two recycling plants. We operate a printing and packaging products distribution business principally through six branches in Asia. At December 31, 2019, we owned or managed approximately 329,000 acres of forestland in Brazil and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government-owned forestlands in Russia. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions.

For management and financial reporting purposes, our businesses are separated into three segments: Industrial Packaging; Global Cellulose Fibers; and Printing Papers. 

A description of these business segments can be found on pages 25 and 26 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s equity interests in Ilim S.A. (Ilim) and Graphic Packaging International Partners, LLC (GPIP) are also separate reportable industry segments.

From 2015 through 2019, International Paper’s capital spending approximated $7.1 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to use our capital strategically to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs and maintain reliability of operations. Capital spending in 2019 was approximately $1.3 billion and is expected to be approximately $1.0 billion in 2020. You can find more information about capital spending on page 30 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Discussions of acquisitions can be found on page 30 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 24 and 25 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC.

COMPETITION AND COSTS

The pulp, paper and packaging sectors are large and fragmented, and the areas into which the Company sells its principal products are very competitive. Our products compete with similar products produced by other forest products companies. We also compete, in some instances, with companies in other industries and against substitutes for wood-fiber products.

Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including price, cost, product quality and services. You can find more information about the impact of these factors on operating profits on pages 19 through 29 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Company’s manufacturing capacities on page A-4 of Appendix II.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

The Company sells products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. 

DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company’s principal products are described on pages 25 and 26 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

1
SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT

Sales volumes of major products for 2019, 2018 and 2017 were as follows:

SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT (a)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes third-party and inter-segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees.

(b)Volumes for corrugated box sales reflect consumed tons sold. Board sales by these businesses reflect invoiced tons.

(c)Excludes newsprint sales volumes at the Madrid, Spain mill through Q3 2017.

(d)Includes North American, European and Brazilian volumes and internal sales to mills. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company operates its primary research and development center in Loveland, Ohio, as well as several other product development facilities, including a technology center in Federal Way, Washington.

We direct research and development activities to short-term, long-term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. Activities include product development within the operating divisions; studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, paper making, converting and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; mechanical packaging systems, environmentally sensitive printing inks and reduction of environmental discharges; re-use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. Our development efforts specifically 

address product safety, as well as the minimization of solid waste. The cost to the Company of its research and development operations was $29 million in 2019, $30 million in 2018 and $28 million in 2017.

We own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights relating to our products and to the processes for their production. We also license intellectual property rights to and from others where advantageous or necessary. Many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. Some of our products are covered by U.S. and non-U.S. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. We derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

International Paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation, as well as similar regulations internationally. In addition, new environmental laws or regulations impacting our facilities around the world are routinely passed or proposed. Our continuing objectives include: 

2
(1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Company spent $70 million in 2019 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend $80 million in 2020 for environmental capital projects. Capital expenditures for 2021 environmental projects are anticipated to be approximately $85 million. Capital expenditures for 2022 environmental projects are estimated to be $65 million.

The Company has completed capital projects to meet the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Boiler MACT (maximum achievable control technology) regulations that require owners of specified boilers to meet revised air emissions standards for certain substances. Although certain aspects of litigation challenging all or portions of the Boiler MACT regulations remain open, we have not identified any additional Boiler MACT capital project expenditures that might result from resolution of the open issues. 

The Company has been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) in environmental remediation actions under various federal and state laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). Many of these proceedings involve the cleanup of hazardous substances at large commercial landfills that received waste from many different sources. While joint and several liability is authorized under CERCLA and equivalent state laws, as a practical matter, liability for CERCLA cleanups is typically allocated among the many PRPs. There are other remediation costs typically associated with the cleanup of hazardous substances at the Company’s current, closed or formerly-owned facilities, and recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet. For additional information regarding certain remediation actions, see Note 14 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on pages 65 through 68.

CLIMATE CHANGE

International Paper plays a significant role in responding to the climate change challenge. Our entire business depends upon the sustainability of forests. We transform renewable resources into recyclable products that people depend on every day. This cycle begins with sourcing renewable fiber from responsibly managed forests, and at the end of use our products are recycled into new products at a higher rate than any other base material. We endeavor to continue to lead the international business community in responsible forest stewardship to ensure healthy and productive forest ecosystems for generations to come. Our efforts to advance sustainable forest management and restore 

forest landscapes are an important lever for mitigating climate change through carbon storage in forests. Furthermore, we use biomass and manufacturing residuals (rather than fossil fuels) to generate a substantial majority of the manufacturing energy at our mills.

In an effort to mitigate the impact of climate change various international, national and sub-national (regional, state and local) governmental actions have been or may be undertaken. Presently, these efforts have not materially impacted International Paper, but such efforts may have a material impact on the Company in the future.

INTERNATIONAL EFFORTS

The Paris Agreement, went into effect in November 2016 and continued international efforts and voluntary commitments toward reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs). Consistent with this objective, participating countries aim to balance GHG emissions generation and sequestration in the second half of this century or, in effect, achieve net-zero global GHG emissions. 

As part of the Paris Agreement, many countries established non-binding emissions reduction targets. For instance, the U.S. made a non-binding commitment to hold GHG emissions 7% below 2005 GHG emissions levels by 2020 and 26% to 28% below by 2025. Other countries in which we operate made similar non-binding commitments. On August 4, 2017, the U.S. filed official notice to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Notwithstanding the notice of withdrawal by the U.S., the Company’s voluntary GHG reductions, which are set out in our annual Global Citizenship report, remain roughly in line with the percentages of the U.S. prior target reductions. It is not clear at this time what, if any, further reductions by the Company might be required by the countries in which we operate. Due to this uncertainty, it is not possible at this time to estimate the potential impacts of these agreements on the Company.

To assist member countries in meeting GHG reduction obligations, the EU operates an Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). Currently, we have two sites directly subject to regulation under Phase III of the EU ETS, one in Poland and one in France. Other sites that we operate in the EU experience indirect impacts of the EU ETS through purchased power pricing. Neither the direct nor indirect impacts of the EU ETS have been material to the Company, but they could be material to the Company in the future depending on how the Paris Agreement's non-binding commitments or allocation of and market prices for GHG credits under existing rules evolve over the coming years.

3
U.S. EFFORTS, INCLUDING STATE, REGIONAL AND LOCAL MEASURES

The U.S. Congress has not passed GHG legislation. The EPA manages regulations to: (i) control GHGs from mobile sources by adopting transportation fuel efficiency standards; (ii) control GHG emissions from new Electric Generating Units (EGUs); (iii) control emissions from new oil and gas processing operations and (iv) require reporting of GHGs from sources of GHGs greater than 25,000 tons per year. 

Several U.S. states, including states in which we operate facilities, have enacted or are considering legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of GHGs by companies and public utilities. California, New York and Virginia have already enacted such programs, although these regulations have not, and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company. We are monitoring proposed programs in other states, however it is unclear what impacts, if any, state-level GHG rules will have on the Company’s operations. 

SUMMARY

Regulation of GHGs continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased governmental action regarding GHGs and climate change in the future, it is unclear when such actions will occur and at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate Company costs of compliance with rules that have not yet been adopted or implemented and may not be adopted or implemented in the future. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on International Paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects. International Paper has controls and procedures in place to stay informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate. We regularly assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations.

Additional information regarding climate change and International Paper is available in our 2018 Global Citizenship report found on our website at www.internationalpaper.com, though this information is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2019, we have approximately 51,000 employees, nearly 33,000 of whom are located in the United States. Of our U.S. employees, 

approximately 23,000 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 14,000 employees. Approximately 11,000 of this number are represented by the United Steelworkers union (USW).

International Paper, the USW, and several other unions have entered into two master agreements covering various mills and converting facilities. These master agreements cover several specific items, including wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security, and health and safety. Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other subjects not covered by the master agreements. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, under the terms of the master agreements the local contracts will automatically renew with the same terms in effect. The master agreements cover the majority of our union represented mills and converting facilities. In addition, International Paper is party to a master agreement with District Council 2, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, covering additional converting facilities. 

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Mark S. Sutton, 58, chairman (since January 1, 2015) & chief executive officer (since November 1, 2014). Mr. Sutton previously served as president & chief operating officer from June 1, 2014 to October 31, 2014, senior vice president - industrial packaging from November 2011 to May 31, 2014, senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the Americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president - supply chain from 2008 to 2009, vice president - supply chain from 2007 until 2008, and vice president - strategic planning from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. Mr. Sutton serves on the board of directors of The Kroger Company. He is a member of The Business Council, serves on the American Forest & Paper Association board of directors, The Business Roundtable board of directors, and the international advisory board of the Moscow School of Management - Skolkovo. He was appointed chairman of the U.S. Russian Business Council. He also serves on the board of directors for Memphis Tomorrow and board of governors for New Memphis Institute. Mr. Sutton has been a director since June 1, 2014.

W. Michael Amick, Jr., 56, senior vice president - paper the Americas since January 1, 2017. Mr. Amick previously served as senior vice president - North American papers & consumer packaging from July 2016 until December 2016, senior vice president - North American papers, pulp & consumer packaging from November 2014 until June 2016, vice president - president, IP India, from August 2012 to October 

4
2014, and vice president and general manager for the coated paperboard business from 2010 to 2012. Mr. Amick joined International Paper in 1990.

Clay R. Ellis, 49, senior vice president - enterprise operational excellence since December 2019. Mr. Ellis previously served as vice president - manufacturing, global cellulose fibers from 2016 to December 2019, vice president of pulp from 2014 to 2016, and vice president manufacturing, North American papers from 2012 to 2014. Mr. Ellis joined International Paper in 1992.

W. Thomas Hamic, 54, senior vice president - containerboard and enterprise commercial excellence since December 2019. Mr. Hamic previously served as vice president and general manager - containerboard & recycling, North American container from June 2015 until December 2019. Mr. Hamic became vice president and general manager of the south area in container of the Americas in 2009, and he was appointed to the role of vice president, industrial packaging group’s finance & strategy in 2010. Mr. Hamic joined International Paper in 1991.

Tommy S. Joseph, 60, senior vice president until his retirement effective February 29, 2020. Mr. Joseph previously served as senior vice president - manufacturing, technology, EH&S and global sourcing from January 2010 until October 2019. Mr. Joseph has also previously served as senior vice president - manufacturing, technology, EH&S from February 2009 until December 2009, and vice president - technology from 2005 until February 2009. Mr. Joseph is a director of Ilim in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Joseph joined International Paper in 1982.

Timothy S. Nicholls, 58, senior vice president & chief financial officer since June 2018. Mr. Nicholls previously served as senior vice president - industrial packaging the Americas from January 2017 through June 2018, senior vice president - industrial packaging from November 2014 through December 2016, senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the Americas from November 2011 through October 2014, senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2007 until 2011, vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007, and vice president and chief financial officer - IP Europe from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1999.

Thomas J. Plath, 56, senior vice president - human resources and global citizenship since March 1, 2017. Mr. Plath previously served as vice president - human resources, global businesses from November 2014 through February 2017, and vice president - HR manufacturing, technology, EH&S and global supply 

chain from April 2013 to November 2014. Mr. Plath joined International Paper in 1991.

Jean-Michel Ribieras, 57, senior vice president - industrial packaging the Americas since June 2018. Mr. Ribieras previously served as senior vice president - global cellulose fibers from July 2016 through June 2018, senior vice president - president, IP Europe, Middle East, Africa & Russia from 2013 until June 2016, and president - IP Latin America from 2009 until 2013. Mr. Ribieras joined International Paper in 1993.

James P. Royalty, Jr., 50, senior vice president and president, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Russia since December 2019. Most recently, Mr. Royalty served as vice president, corporate development and disruptive technologies from September 2018 until December 2019, vice president, strategic projects from 2017 until 2018, vice president, investor relations from 2013 until 2017, vice president and general manager, container the Americas in 2008 to 2013. Mr. Royalty joined International Paper in 1991.

Sharon R. Ryan, 60, senior vice president, general counsel & corporate secretary since November 2011. Ms. Ryan previously served as vice president, acting general counsel & corporate secretary from May 2011 until November 2011, vice president from March 2011 until May 2011, associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance officer from 2009 until 2011, and associate general counsel from 2006 until 2009. Ms. Ryan joined International Paper in 1988.

John V. Sims, 57, senior vice president - corporate development since December 2019. Mr Sims previously served as senior vice president - president, IP Europe, Middle East, Africa & Russia from July 2016 until December 2019. Mr. Sims also previously served as vice president and general manager, European papers from January 2016 until June 2016, vice president & general manager, North American papers from 2014 until December 2015, and vice president, finance and strategy, industrial packaging, from 2009 until 2013. Mr. Sims is a director of Ilim in which International Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Sims joined International Paper in 1994.

Catherine I. Slater, 56, senior vice president - global cellulose fibers & IP Asia since June 2018. Ms. Slater previously served as senior vice president - consumer packaging from December 2016 through December 2017. Ms. Slater joined International Paper from Weyerhaeuser Company in December 2016, effective with the completion of the acquisition of Weyerhaeuser’s cellulose fibers business, which she previously led. Ms. Slater’s 24-year career with Weyerhaeuser included leadership roles in manufacturing, printing papers, 

5
consumer products, wood products and the cellulose fibers business.

Gregory T. Wanta, 54, senior vice president - North American container since December 2016. Mr. Wanta has served in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility in manufacturing and commercial leadership roles in specialty papers, coated paperboard, printing papers, foodservice and industrial packaging, including vice president, central region, Container the Americas, from January 2012 through October 2016. Mr. Wanta joined International Paper in 1991.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. For further information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements, see page 31.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including the exhibits hereto) that are not historical in nature may be considered “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are often identified by the words, “will,” “may,” “should,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “appear,” “project,” “estimate,” “intend,” and words of a similar nature. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management’s current views with respect to future events, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: (i) the level of our indebtedness and changes in interest rates; (ii) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation costs, competition we face, cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences, demand and pricing for our products; (iii) domestic and global economic conditions and political changes, including but not limited to changes in currency exchange rates, trade protectionist policies, downgrades in our credit ratings and/or the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit, issued by recognized credit rating organizations, (iv) the amount of our future pension funding obligations, and pension and health care costs; (v) unanticipated expenditures or other adverse developments related to the cost of compliance with existing and new environmental, tax, labor and employment, privacy, and other U.S. and non-U.S. governmental laws and regulations; (vi) whether we experience a material disruption at one of our 

manufacturing facilities; (vii) risks inherent in conducting business through joint ventures; (viii) our ability to achieve the benefits we expect from, and other risks associated with, acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions, (ix) information technology risks, and (x) loss contingencies and pending, threatened or future litigation, including with respect to environmental matters. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements are discussed in greater detail below in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS