Item 1. Business

Our Company

Capri Holdings Limited (“Capri”) is a global fashion luxury group, consisting of iconic brands that are industry leaders in design, style and craftsmanship. Our brands cover the full spectrum of fashion luxury categories including women’s and men’s accessories, footwear and ready-to-wear, as well as wearable technology, watches, jewelry, eyewear and a full line of fragrance products. Our goal is to continue to extend the global reach of our brands while ensuring that they maintain their independence and exclusive DNA.

Our Brands

Versace

The Versace brand has long been recognized as one of the world’s leading international fashion design houses and is synonymous with Italian glamour and style. Founded over 40 years ago in Milan, Italy, Versace is known for its iconic and unmistakable style and unparalleled craftsmanship. Over the past several decades, Versace has grown globally from its roots in haute couture, expanding into the design, manufacturing, distribution and retailing of ready-to-wear, accessories, footwear and home furnishings businesses. Versace distributes its products through a worldwide distribution network which includes boutiques in some of the world’s most glamorous cities. In addition, certain categories, such as jeans, fragrances, watches and eyewear are produced under licensing agreements.

Jimmy Choo

The Jimmy Choo brand, founded over 20 years ago, enjoys a leading position in the luxury footwear market and an expanding presence in the luxury accessories space. Since its inception in 1996, Jimmy Choo has offered a distinctive, glamorous and fashion-forward product range, enabling it to develop into a leading global luxury accessories brand, whose core product offering of women’s luxury shoes is complemented by accessories, including handbags, small leather goods, scarves and belts, as well as a men’s luxury shoe and an accessory business. In addition, certain categories, such as fragrances and eyewear are produced under licensing agreements.

Michael Kors

The Michael Kors brand was launched almost 40 years ago by Michael Kors, whose vision has taken it from its beginnings as an American luxury sportswear house to a global accessories, footwear and apparel company with a presence in over 100 countries through company-operated retail stores and e-commerce sites, leading department stores, specialty stores and select licensing partners. Michael Kors offers three primary collections: the Michael Kors Collection luxury line, the MICHAEL Michael Kors accessible luxury line and the Michael Kors Mens line. The Michael Kors Collection establishes the aesthetic authority of the entire brand and is carried in many of our Michael Kors retail stores, our Michael Kors e-commerce sites, as well as in the finest luxury department stores in the world. Our accessible luxury line MICHAEL Michael Kors has a strong focus on accessories, in addition to offering footwear and apparel and is carried in all of our Michael Kors lifestyle stores, as well as leading department stores throughout the world. We also continue to develop our Michael Kors Mens business in recognition of the significant opportunity afforded by our Michael Kors brand’s established fashion authority. In addition, certain categories, such as watches, jewelry, fragrances and eyewear are produced under product and geographic licensing arrangements.

4
Our Segments

We operate in three reportable segments, which are as follows:

•Versace — accounted for approximately 15% of our total revenue in Fiscal 2020 and includes worldwide sales of Versace products through 206 retail stores (including concessions) and e-commerce sites, through 824 wholesale doors (including multi-brand stores), as well as through product and geographic licensing arrangements.

•Jimmy Choo — accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue in Fiscal 2020 and includes worldwide sales of Jimmy Choo products through 226 retail stores (including concessions) and e-commerce sites, through 554 wholesale doors, as well as through product and geographic licensing arrangements.

•Michael Kors — accounted for approximately 75% of our total revenue in Fiscal 2020 and includes worldwide sales of Michael Kors products through 839 retail stores (including concessions) and e-commerce sites, through 2,982 wholesale doors, as well as through product and geographic licensing arrangements.

In addition to these reportable segments, we have certain corporate costs that are not directly attributable to our brands and, therefore, are not allocated to segments. Such costs primarily include certain administrative, corporate occupancy and information systems expenses, including Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system implementation costs. In addition, certain other costs are not allocated to segments, including restructuring and other charges (including transition costs related to our recent acquisitions), impairment costs and COVID-19 related charges. The segment structure is consistent with how our chief operating decision maker plans and allocates resources, manages the business and assesses performance. All intercompany revenues are eliminated in consolidation and are not reviewed when evaluating segment performance. For additional financial information regarding our segments and corporate unallocated expenses, see Segment Information note in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Industry

We operate in the global personal luxury goods industry. The personal luxury goods market grew at a 5% rate over the past 20 years, with more recent growth driven by stronger Chinese demand from both international and local consumers and demographic and socioeconomic shifts resulting in younger consumers purchasing more luxury goods. The personal luxury goods market grew approximately 7% in 2019 despite growing geopolitical tensions, such as trade tensions between the United States and China, Brexit and protests in Hong Kong. Growth in 2020 is expected to be impacted by the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent global recovery. According to forecasts by Bain-Altagamma, the personal luxury goods market is expected to contract between 20% and 35% in 2020. Bain-Altagamma forecasted a 10% growth rate from 2020 to 2025. Accessories remains the largest and fastest growing personal luxury goods category, driven by leather goods and footwear. Over the past several years, direct-to-consumer has been the fastest-growing channel, largely driven by the rapid and accelerating growth of the e-commerce channel, which is expected to represent 30% of personal luxury goods sales by 2025. Consumer shopping preferences have continued to shift from physical stores to on-line shopping. As the overall retail environment becomes increasingly omni-channel, with point of sales evolving into point of touch, we believe that increased customer engagement and tailoring merchandise to customer shopping and communication preferences are the key ingredients to growing market share. We believe that our innovative and luxurious product offerings and customer engagement initiatives across all three brands position us to capitalize on the continued growth of the luxury accessories and footwear product categories, as they are among our primary product categories of focus, as well as to grow our sales in our other product categories, such as ready-to-wear where we now have a broader presence across both women’s and men’s offerings.

Geographic Information

We generate revenue globally through our three reporting segments, as described above. We sell our Versace, Jimmy Choo and Michael Kors products through retail and wholesale channels of distribution in three principal geographic markets: the Americas (U.S., Canada and Latin America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia. We also have wholesale arrangements pursuant to which we sell products to our geographic licensees. In addition, we have licensing agreements through which we license to third parties the use of our Versace, Jimmy Choo and Michael Kors brand names and trademarks, certain production rights, and sales and/or distribution rights with respect to our brands.

5
The following table details our revenue by segment and geographic location (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Competitive Strengths

We believe that the following strengths differentiate us from our competitors:

Global Fashion Luxury Group Led by a World-Class Management Team and Renowned Designers. We are a global fashion luxury group, consisting of three iconic brands defined by fashion luxury products with a reputation for world-class design and innovation. The design leadership of our founder-designers Donatella Versace, Sandra Choi and Michael Kors is a unique advantage that we possess. Our founder-led design teams are supported by our senior management team with extensive experience across a broad range of disciplines in the retail industry, including design, sales, marketing, public relations, merchandising, real estate, supply chain and finance. With an average of 25 years of experience in the retail industry, including at a number of public companies, and an average of 14 years experience with our brands, our senior management team has strong creative and operational experience and a successful track record.

For over 20 years, Donatella Versace has been the artistic director, molding Versace’s iconic style. A true visionary with an intuition for how to blend fashion, design and culture, Donatella continues to honor the rich and storied Versace heritage founded in 1978, while constantly evolving and adapting the luxury house to ensure the brand’s continued relevance. Donatella’s most recent collections for Versace are a testament to her unique design vision and are equal parts bold and refined, evoking both a rock and roll spirit as well as runway glamour. Versace designs have been worn by the world’s most famous celebrities and most sought-after super models.

Jimmy Choo’s design team is led by Sandra Choi, who has been the Creative Director for the Jimmy Choo brand since its inception in 1996. Jimmy Choo products are unique, instinctively seductive and chic. The Jimmy Choo brand offers classic and timeless luxury products, as well as innovative products that are intended to set and lead fashion trends. Jimmy Choo’s products have a strong red carpet presence and are often worn by global celebrities.

6
The Michael Kors brand was launched almost 40 years ago by Michael Kors, a world-renowned designer, who is responsible for conceptualizing and directing the design of our Michael Kors brand products. We believe that the Michael Kors brand name has become synonymous with luxurious fashion that is timeless and elegant, expressed through the brand’s sophisticated accessories and ready-to-wear collections. Each of our Michael Kors brand collections exemplifies the jet-set lifestyle and features high quality designs, materials and craftsmanship. Michael Kors has received a number of awards, which recognize the contribution he and his team have made to the fashion industry and our Company. Some of the most widely recognized global trendsetters and celebrities wear our Michael Kors brand collections.

Expertise in the Accessories and Footwear Product Categories. We have strong group expertise in accessories and footwear. The strength of our Michael Kors luxury collection and our accessible luxury MICHAEL Michael Kors line have allowed us to expand our brand awareness and position Michael Kors as one of the leading global luxury brands in the accessories product categories. Capitalizing on the success of our accessories product category, we continue to further develop the accessories businesses for Jimmy Choo and Versace, bringing our accessories expertise, including our product category knowledge, our merchandising best practices and our substantial group buying power to these brands. Our goal is to increase Versace’s accessories and footwear penetration from less than 35% of revenues in Fiscal 2020 to 60% of Versace’s revenues over time, and to increase Jimmy Choo's accessories penetration from less than 20% of revenues in Fiscal 2020 to 50% of Jimmy Choo’s revenues over time.

Exceptional Retail Store Footprint. Versace operates in three primary retail formats: boutiques, outlet and e-commerce. We operated 206 Versace retail stores as of March 28, 2020, in some of the most fashionable cities and the most sought-after shopping destinations around the world. Versace’s products are distributed worldwide through a global network of highly specialized stores, which average approximately 1,700 square feet. In addition, we operate Versace e-commerce sites in the U.S., certain parts of Europe and China.

We operated 226 Jimmy Choo stores as of March 28, 2020, with approximately 85% of stores represented by the brand’s new global retail store format, which has been progressively rolled out around the world during the past several years. Jimmy Choo retail stores, comprised of full-price stores and outlets, average approximately 1,300 square feet. In addition, we operate Jimmy Choo e-commerce sites in the U.S., certain parts of Europe and Japan, and launched a localized site in China during Fiscal 2020. Omni-channel developments continued during Fiscal 2020 with the successful roll out of in-store ordering at concessions across Europe and Japan.

We operated 839 Michael Kors stores as of March 28, 2020 with four primary retail store formats: collection stores, lifestyle stores, outlet stores and e-commerce sites. Michael Kors collection stores are located in some of the world’s most prestigious shopping areas and average approximately 2,900 square feet in size. The Michael Kors lifestyle stores are located in some of the world’s most frequented metropolitan shopping locations and leading regional shopping centers, and average approximately 2,800 square feet in size. We also extend our reach to additional consumer groups through our outlet stores, which average approximately 4,300 square feet in size. In addition, we also operate Michael Kors e-commerce sites in the U.S., Canada, certain parts of Europe, China, Japan and South Korea.

World-class Omni and CRM capabilities. We have omni-channel capabilities from best-in-class digital platforms to state-of-the-art distribution facilities globally, which we leverage across businesses. As part of our plan to continue to implement omni-channel capabilities throughout our businesses, we have begun leveraging our world class distribution centers, including in Venlo, Netherlands and Teterboro, New Jersey, to serve all three brands.

Strong Relationships with Premier Department Stores. We partner with leading wholesale customers, such as Macy's, Saks Fifth Avenue, Bloomingdale’s and Holt Renfrew in North America, as well as Harrods, Harvey Nichols, Printemps, Selfridges and Galeries Lafayette in Europe. These relationships enable us to access large numbers of our key consumers in a targeted manner. Our “shop-in-shops” have specially trained staff, as well as customized fixtures, wall casings, decorative items, and flooring, and provide department store consumers with a more personalized shopping experience than traditional retail department store configurations. We have engaged with our wholesale customers on various initiatives and have continued to enter into innovative supply chain partnerships designed to increase the speed at which our luxury fashion products reach the ultimate consumer. We plan to increase Versace’s and Jimmy Choo’s presence in luxury department stores and for Michael Kors, we have continued to strategically reduce shipments with the intent to drive more full-price sell throughs in the wholesale channel.

7
Business Strategy

Our goal is to continue to create long-term shareholder value by increasing our revenue and profits and strengthening our global brands. We also believe that sound environmental and social policies are both ethically correct and fiscally responsible. To that end, we are committed to improving the way we work in order to better the world in which we live. We plan to achieve our business strategy by focusing on the following strategic initiatives:

Leverage group expertise and capabilities. We will continue to leverage our group expertise in accessories and footwear to fuel growth across our portfolio of brands, implementing the best practices from our Michael Kors core accessories business to our Versace and Jimmy Choo brands. We will also continue to prioritize the development of our e-commerce platforms and omni-channel capabilities for our brands, leveraging our broad expertise and capabilities in this area. With the addition of Versace, we see a number of opportunities to create long-term operational synergies as we combine our global competencies and footprint. These synergies will be primarily focused on opportunities in our supply chain, information systems, back office support and manufacturing.

Continue to increase our presence in Asia. We plan to continue to diversify our group’s global footprint with an emphasis on the Asia market, where we believe each of our three brands continue to have the potential to significantly grow market share in the region.

Integrate Versace and continue to build on the brand’s luxury image. We plan to grow the Versace business to $2 billion in revenues over time. There are five strategic initiatives that we will focus on to achieve this goal. First, we plan to build on Versace’s luxury runway momentum. Second, we will enhance Versace’s powerful and iconic communications messaging. Third, we plan to increase Versace’s global footprint from 206 stores to 300 retail stores. Fourth, we will accelerate Versace’s e-commerce development to create a full omni-channel experience. Finally, we plan to leverage our group’s expertise to expand Versace’s women’s and men’s accessories and footwear businesses from less than 35% of revenues to a target of 60% of the brand's revenues over time, while maintaining Versace’s authoritative presence in women’s and men’s ready-to-wear.

Continue to execute on our strategies to grow the Jimmy Choo brand. We plan to continue to implement our growth strategies for Jimmy Choo, with a goal of reaching $1 billion in revenues over time. Since the acquisition, we have grown Jimmy Choo’s retail store base from 150 stores to over 200 stores and are targeting to expand the Jimmy Choo retail footprint to 300 stores globally, with an emphasis on growth in Asia. Maintaining our leadership in footwear for Jimmy Choo remains a top priority, and we plan to accelerate footwear growth by continuing to expand the strategic fashion active category. In addition, we plan to continue increasing our presence in the accessories product category by expanding the breadth of new collection offerings, focusing on visual merchandising and increased marketing, with a goal of growing the accessories business to 50% of Jimmy Choo's revenues. Our marketing campaign, featuring Jimmy Choo’s first global brand ambassador, model Kaia Gerber, aims to attract a younger customer, while simultaneously highlighting our new active footwear and accessories products, in addition to continuing to showcase our core luxury women’s fashion footwear.

Continue to leverage the strength of our Michael Kors brand, which remains the foundation for our fashion luxury group. Our goal is to position Michael Kors to become a stronger and more profitable brand. Our focus on product innovation has greatly improved newness across all product categories for our Michael Kors brand. In accessories, we continue to introduce new product groups, as well as unique design, style, and craftsmanship. In footwear, we plan to grow our fashion active product offerings and continue fashion innovation. In women’s apparel, our KORS style head-to-toe dressing remains our key focus, along with our strategic dress and outerwear categories. We will continue to increase product offerings within menswear, including our new men's footwear collection. We also plan to continue to focus on brand engagement, capitalizing on Michael Kors’ leading red carpet and social media presence. Our strategy to enhance customer experience by expanding our omni-channel capabilities also remains a key priority.

Execute on our corporate social responsibility strategy. Our corporate social responsibility strategy is divided into three areas: (i) Our World: focused on actions across our operations and supply chain, meant to significantly reduce our environmental impact; (ii) Our Community: fostering a supportive, healthy, diverse and inclusive workplace for all of our employees; and (iii) Our Philanthropy: connecting the talents, energy and success of each of our brands to those in need around the world. We have set targets to be 100% carbon neutral in our direct operations and to source 100% of energy for our owned and operated facilities from renewable sources by 2025. Building on our net zero carbon emissions commitment, and in an effort to deliver on the goals of the Paris Agreement, we will also commit to set emissions reduction targets across our operations and supply chain with the Science Based Targets initiative by 2021. We have additionally committed to, and have already been working towards, a number of important initiatives, including:

8
•All plastic in packaging to be recyclable, compostable, recycled or reusable by 2025

•100% of point-of-sale packaging materials to be recyclable or sustainably sourced by 2025

•Partnering with key suppliers to reduce water use

•Traceability of our supply chain

•Sourcing at least 95% of our leather from certified tanneries by 2025

•Furthering diversity and inclusion within the organization, including through our new Global D&I Council

•Supply chain empowerment programs focused on human rights and fair wages to be implemented in line with the United Nations Framework for Corporate Action on Workplace Women’s Health and Empowerment by 2025

Collections and Products

 Our total revenue by major product category is as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Versace

Versace is one of the leading international fashion design houses and a symbol of Italian luxury worldwide, which has developed its expertise in haute couture to include ready-to-wear, accessories, footwear and home furnishings. Generally, Versace’s haute couture retails up to $100,000, ready-to-wear retails from $250 to $4,000, accessories retail from $100 to $3,500, and footwear retails from $225 to $2,500.

Certain product categories, such as Versace Jeans Couture, eyewear, fragrances, jewelry and watches are produced under product licensing agreements. Swinger SA is the exclusive licensee for Versace Jeans Couture, Luxottica is the exclusive licensee for Versace eyewear, Euroitalia is the exclusive licensee for Versace fragrances, Samra International is the exclusive licensee for Versace jewelry, and Vertime is the exclusive licensee for Versace watches. Generally, Versace Jeans Couture retail from $75 to $2,000, Versace eyewear retails from $200 to $500, Versace fragrances retail from $75 to $400, Versace jewelry retails from $500 to $7,500, and Versace watches retail from $500 to $3,500.

Jimmy Choo

Jimmy Choo is a leading global luxury accessories brand and offers a distinctive, glamorous and fashion-forward product range, whose core product offerings are women’s luxury shoes, complemented by accessories, including handbags, small leather goods, scarves and belts, as well as a growing men’s luxury shoes and accessories business. Generally, Jimmy Choo women’s luxury shoes retail from $400 to $5,500, accessories retail from $450 to $5,500 and men’s shoes retail from $200 to $2,500.

Certain product categories, such as Jimmy Choo fragrances and eyewear are produced under product licensing agreements. Interparfums SA is the exclusive licensee for Jimmy Choo fragrances and Safilo SpA is the exclusive licensee for Jimmy Choo eyewear. Generally, Jimmy Choo eyewear retails from $200 to $500 and Jimmy Choo fragrances retail from $50 to $200.

9
Michael Kors

Michael Kors has three primary collections that offer accessories, footwear and apparel: Michael Kors Collection, MICHAEL Michael Kors and Michael Kors Mens. The three primary collections and licensed products are offered through our own Michael Kors retail stores and e-commerce businesses, in department stores around the world and by our exclusive licensees to wholesale customers in addition to select retailers. The Michael Kors Collection is a sophisticated designer collection for women based on a philosophy of essential luxury and pragmatic glamour and includes accessories, primarily handbags and small leather goods, ready-to-wear and footwear. Generally, the Michael Kors Collection women’s handbags and small leather goods retail from $300 to $6,000, footwear retails from $300 to $1,500 and ready-to-wear retails from $400 to $7,500. MICHAEL Michael Kors is the accessible luxury collection and offers women’s accessories, primarily handbags and small leather goods, as well as footwear and apparel and is carried in all of the Michael Kors lifestyle stores and leading department stores around the world. MICHAEL Michael Kors offers handbags designed to meet the fashion and functional requirements of our broad and diverse consumer base. Generally, MICHAEL Michael Kors handbags retail from $200 to $750, small leather goods retail from $50 to $250, footwear retails from $50 to $300 and apparel retails from $75 to $600. Michael Kors Mens is an innovative collection of men’s ready-to-wear, accessories, and footwear with a modern American style. Michael Kors Mens apparel generally retails from $50 to $1,000, men’s accessories generally retail from $50 to $800 and men’s footwear generally retails from $200 to $400.

Certain product categories, including watches, jewelry, eyewear, and fragrance are produced under product licensing agreements. Fossil is our exclusive licensee for Michael Kors watches and jewelry, including our Michael Kors ACCESS smartwatches introduced in Fiscal 2017 and our fine jewelry line introduced in Fiscal 2019. Luxottica is our exclusive licensee for Michael Kors distinctive eyewear inspired by our collections. Estée Lauder is Michael Kors exclusive women’s and men’s fragrance licensee. Generally, Michael Kors fashion watches retail from $150 to $600, Michael Kors ACCESS smartwatches retail from $300 to $500, Michael Kors jewelry retails from $50 to $500, Michael Kors eyewear retails from $100 to $250 and Michael Kors fragrance and related products generally retail from $50 to $150.

Advertising and Marketing

Our marketing and advertising programs are designed to build brand awareness for each of our luxury houses as well as highlight our product offerings. We use a 360-degree marketing strategy for each of our brands to deliver a consistent message across each brand's advertising communications, social media, celebrity dressing, special events and direct marketing activities at a national, regional and local level. Our campaigns are increasingly being executed through digital and social media platforms to drive further engagement with younger consumers.

Our brands introduce their new collections annually with fashion shows and other fashion events. These fashion events, in addition to celebrity red carpet dressing moments, generate extensive domestic and international media and social coverage. The Versace and Michael Kors semi-annual runway shows and Jimmy Choo celebrity placements generate extensive media coverage. Jimmy Choo is also the leading brand in editorial coverage for women’s luxury shoes globally.

We believe our renowned brand founders, as well as our high-profile brand ambassadors and well-known social media influencers across our marketing programs helps expand brand awareness and drive cultural relevance.

During Fiscal 2020, Versace's Spring 2020 show celebrated the 20th anniversary of the legendary moment in fashion history when the iconic jungle print dress worn by Jennifer Lopez helped inspire Google Images' search function. To close the show, Jennifer Lopez wore a re-imagined version of the tropical print dress she wore to the 2000 Grammys. The reviews, press coverage and social media generated from the show continue to expand the global reach of Versace. Kaia Gerber continues to be the face of Jimmy Choo. With her timeless beauty and fashion pedigree, Kaia’s authenticity transcends generations and is the perfect representation of the dynamic energy of the Jimmy Choo brand. Bella Hadid remains the face of MICHAEL Michael Kors. Bella accentuates the lifestyle, attitude and mood that is quintessentially jet-set. The imagery reflects the speed, energy and optimism that are the hallmarks of our Company.

In Fiscal 2020, we recognized approximately $201 million in advertising and marketing expenses globally. We engage in a wide range of integrated marketing programs across various marketing channels, including but not limited to email marketing, print advertising, outdoor advertising, digital marketing, social media, public relations outreach, visual merchandising and partnership marketing, in an effort to engage our existing and potential customer base and ultimately stimulate sales in a consumer-preferred shopping venue.

10
Our growing e-commerce businesses provide us with an opportunity to increase the size of our customer database and to communicate with our consumers to increase online and physical store sales, as well as to continue to build global brand awareness for our brands. We are continuously improving the functionalities and features on our e-commerce sites to create innovative ways to keep our brands at the forefront of consumers’ minds by offering a broad selection of products, including accessories, apparel, and footwear. Since e-commerce growth is critical to our overall growth strategy, we plan to accelerate Versace’s and Jimmy Choo’s e-commerce and omni-channel development, while continuing to work with select e-commerce partners.

Manufacturing and Sourcing

We generally contract for the purchase of finished goods principally with independent third-party manufacturing contractors, whereby the manufacturing contractor is generally responsible for the entire manufacturing process, including the purchase of piece goods and trim for our Jimmy Choo and Michael Kors brands. For the Versace brand, some of the piece goods and trim are separately purchased by Versace and provided to the manufacturers, and some are sourced directly by the manufacturers, as further described below.

Versace has a centrally managed production model for the majority of its products, and buys raw materials and components for these products. All raw materials arrive in a central warehouse in Novara, Italy and are distributed to independent third-party manufacturing contractors after the quality control process is complete. The vast majority of Versace’s production is located in Italy. The remaining production occurs in Tunisia, elsewhere in Europe and a small portion is produced in Asia.

Jimmy Choo products are also manufactured by independent third-party manufacturing contractors. Most of Jimmy Choo’s products are produced by specialists in Italy, supported by other factories across Europe, with a small portion produced in Asia. Jimmy Choo has a product development facility in Florence. During Fiscal 2020, we acquired Italian atelier and shoe manufacturer Alberto Gozzi S.r.L. In the immediate future, the factory will primarily develop and produce shoes for Jimmy Choo. Jimmy Choo typically purchases finished goods and does not purchase raw materials, except for product development purposes.

Michael Kors contracts for the purchase of finished goods principally with independent third-party manufacturing contractors that are generally responsible for the entire manufacturing process, including the purchase of piece goods and trim. Product manufacturing for the Michael Kors brand is allocated among third-party agents based on their capabilities, the availability of production capacity, pricing and delivery. Michael Kors also has relationships with various agents who source finished goods with numerous manufacturing contractors on its behalf. This multi-supplier strategy provides specialist skills, scalability, flexibility and speed to market, as well as diversifies risk. In Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019, one third-party agent sourced approximately 26% and 24% of Michael Kors finished goods purchases, respectively, based on unit volume. Michael Kors’ largest manufacturing contractor, who produces its products in Asia and who Michael Kors has worked with for over 10 years, accounted for the production of approximately 20% of its finished products, based on dollar volume in Fiscal 2020. Nearly all of our Michael Kors products were produced in Asia in Fiscal 2020.

The manufacturing contractors and agents for our brands operate under the close supervision of our global manufacturing divisions and buying agents located in North America, Europe and Asia. All products are produced according to our specifications. Production staff monitors manufacturing at supplier facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the final product. Quality assurance is focused on as early as possible in the production process, allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption. See “Import Restrictions and Other Governmental Regulations” and Item 1A. —“Risk Factors” — “We primarily use foreign manufacturing contractors and independent third-party agents to source our finished goods, which poses legal, regulatory, political and economic risks to our business operations.”

Our future manufacturing and sourcing strategy includes creating a manufacturing center of excellence in Italy, as well as purchasing luxury manufacturing facilities in Italy to support all of our brands, to secure capacity and improve expertise in development and delivery. While the fashion design process will remain independently managed by each of our brands, we believe that creating a manufacturing center of excellence, which would combine all functions that support our design teams, from leather and hardware purchases to investment in machinery and systems, will create synergies and efficiencies for our global fashion luxury group.

11
Distribution

Versace owns a central warehouse in Novara, Italy, managed by a third party, which acts as a global hub for Versace’s primary operations. Versace also has a leased warehouse near Novara operated by the same third party, which serves as a distribution point for other Versace lines. From these warehouses, products are shipped to regional warehouses that are operated by third parties in New Jersey, Hong Kong, Beijing and Tokyo, and supports the Versace retail and e-commerce businesses. The e-commerce distribution for the other regions is conducted through third party providers in Columbus, Ohio and Beijing, China. Versace’s wholesale business is mainly serviced from three central warehouses located in Italy, the United States and Japan.

Jimmy Choo's primary distribution facility is in Switzerland. From there, products are shipped to regional warehouses in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Japan and United Arab Emirates, largely supporting the Jimmy Choo retail and e-commerce businesses. Shipments to wholesale customers globally are made from Switzerland and the United States, with some further local fulfillment. All of the distribution facilities utilized by Jimmy Choo are operated by third parties and are shared with other businesses. This flexible method reinforces the speed and efficiency of the supply chain and allows the business to deliver Jimmy Choo product and collections to market rapidly and in line with the industry’s fashion calendar.

Michael Kors primary distribution facility in the United States is the leased facility in Whittier, California, which is directly operated and services our Michael Kors retail stores, e-commerce site, and wholesale operations in the United States. We also engage in omni-channel order fulfillment by filling online orders through our Michael Kors retail stores and through our click-and-collect service offerings. Our primary Michael Kors distribution facility in Europe is our Company-owned and operated distribution facility in the Netherlands, which supports our European operations for our Michael Kors brand, including our European e-commerce sites. We also have regional Michael Kors distribution centers in New Jersey and Canada, which are leased, as well as regional Michael Kors distribution centers in China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, which are operated by third-parties.

Intellectual Property

We own VERSACE, JIMMY CHOO and MICHAEL KORS trademarks, as well as other material trademarks, copyrights, design and patent rights related to the production, marketing and distribution of our products, both in the United States and in other countries in which our products are principally sold. We also have applications pending for a variety of related trademarks, copyrights, designs and patents in various countries throughout the world. As our worldwide usage of our material trademarks, copyrights, designs and patents continue to expand, we continue to strategically apply to register them in key countries where they are used. We expect that our material intellectual property will remain in full force and effect for as long as we continue to use and renew them.

We aggressively police our intellectual property and pursue infringers both domestically and internationally. In addition, we pursue counterfeiters in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and elsewhere in the world in both online and offline channels, working with our network of customs authorities, law enforcement, legal representatives and brand specialists around the world as well as involvement with industry associations and anti-counterfeiting organizations.

Information Systems

Each of our three brands currently operates using their legacy systems for finance and accounting, supply chain, inventory control, point-of-sale transactions, store replenishment, and other functions. Our long-term strategy includes consolidating certain systems across our brands over time to create operational efficiencies, as well as to achieve a common platform across the Company. During Fiscal 2020, we embarked on a multi-year ERP implementation, to conform the majority of our processes onto one global system that would support finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, and store replenishment. The implementation of the ERP required a significant investment in human and financial resources. As a result of COVID-19 and our need to significantly reduce our capital expenditures in order to protect our liquidity and cash flows, we temporarily suspended our ERP project. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” - “A material delay or disruption in our information technology systems or e-commerce websites or our failure or inability to upgrade our information technology systems precisely and efficiently could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.”

12
Employees

At the end of Fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, we had approximately 17,006, 17,797 and 14,846 total employees, respectively. As of March 28, 2020, we had approximately 10,834 full-time employees and approximately 6,172 part-time employees. Approximately 13,137 of our employees were engaged in retail selling and administrative positions and our remaining employees were engaged in other aspects of our business as of March 28, 2020. As of March 28, 2020, we have 1,424 employees covered by collective bargaining agreements in certain European countries. We consider our relations with both our union and non-union employees to be good.

Competition

We face intense competition in the product lines and markets in which we operate from both existing and new competitors. Our products compete with other branded products within their product category. In varying degrees, depending on the product category involved, we compete on the basis of style, price, customer service, quality, brand prestige and recognition, among other bases. In our wholesale business, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors of products like ours for the limited space available for product display. Moreover, the general availability of manufacturing contractors allows new entrants easy access to the markets in which we compete, which may increase the number of our competitors and adversely affect our competitive position and our business. We believe, however, that we have significant competitive advantages because of the recognition of our brands and the acceptance of our brands by consumers. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” — “The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, both within North America and internationally, and increased competition based on a number of factors could cause our profitability and/or gross margins to decline.”

Seasonality

We experience certain effects of seasonality with respect to our business. We generally experience greater sales during our third fiscal quarter, primarily driven by holiday season sales, and the lowest sales during our first fiscal quarter.

Import Restrictions and Other Governmental Regulations

Virtually all of our imported products are subject to duties which may impact the costs of such products. In addition, countries to which we ship our products may impose safeguard quotas to limit the quantity of products that may be imported. We rely on free trade agreements and other supply chain initiatives in order to maximize efficiencies relating to product importation. On May 10, 2019, the United States (“U.S.”) increased the sanction tariffs rate from 10% to 25% on $200 billion of imports of select product categories (Tranche 3), which includes handbags and travel goods from China, and effective September 1, 2019, a 10% tariff on an additional $300 billion of goods from China, including ready-to-wear, footwear and men’s products, went into effect. If additional tariffs or trade restrictions are implemented by the U.S. or other countries, the cost of our products could increase which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we are subject to government regulations relating to both importation activities and product labeling, testing and safety. We maintain a global customs and product compliance organization to help manage our import and related regulatory activity.

Corporate Social Responsibility

In April 2020, we released our first group-wide corporate social responsibility strategy. The report builds upon the initiatives that each of our brands has already been working on, and outlines our global strategy to achieve significant, measurable goals across a range of important environmental and social sustainability issues, including material sourcing, greenhouse gas emissions, water use, waste reduction, diversity and inclusion and philanthropic giving. See “Business Strategy” - “Execute on our corporate social responsibility strategy.”

Our company’s corporate social responsibility strategy is divided into three areas: 

•Our World – focused on actions across our operations and supply chain, meant to significantly reduce our environmental impact.

•Our Community – fostering a supportive, healthy, diverse and inclusive workplace for all of our employees.

•Our Philanthropy – connecting the talents, energy and success of each of our brands to those in need around the world.

13
In arriving at the goals and objectives described in our report, we looked to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for insight, and also to align ourselves effectively with the work being done by governments, individuals and companies around the world. We are committed to the goals outlined in our global corporate social responsibility strategy and are taking a number of actions in furtherance of these objectives including endorsing pledges and joining industry groups that align with our strategy.

A copy of our Corporate Social Responsibility report is available on our website at www.capriholdings.com/csr.

Item 1A. Risk Factors