ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) of our Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements are prospective in nature and are not based on historical facts, but rather on current expectations and projections of the management of Capri Holdings Limited (the “Company”) about future events, and are therefore subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from the future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts included herein, may be forward-looking statements. Without limitation, any statements preceded or followed by or that include the words “plans”, “believes”, “expects”, “intends”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “would”, “may”, “anticipates”, “might” or similar words or phrases, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future financial performance. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results and are based on certain key assumptions, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in any forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and its potential material and significant impact on the Company’s future financial and operational results if retail stores remain closed and the pandemic is prolonged, including that our estimates could materially differ if the severity of the COVID-19 situation worsens, the length and severity of such outbreak across the globe and the pace of recovery following the COVID-19 pandemic, levels of cash flow and future availability of credit, compliance with restrictive covenants under the Company’s credit agreement, the Company’s ability to integrate successfully and to achieve anticipated benefits of any acquisition; the risk of disruptions to the Company’s businesses; the negative effects of events on the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and its operating results; significant transaction costs; unknown liabilities; the risk of litigation and/or regulatory actions related to the Company’s businesses; fluctuations in demand for the Company’s products; levels of indebtedness (including the indebtedness incurred in connection with acquisitions); the timing and scope of future share buybacks, which may be made in open market or privately negotiated transactions, and are subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, trading restrictions under the Company’s insider trading policy and other relevant factors, and which share repurchases may be suspended or discontinued at any time, the level of other investing activities and uses of cash; changes in consumer traffic and retail trends; loss of market share and industry competition; fluctuations in the capital markets; fluctuations in interest and exchange rates; the occurrence of unforeseen epidemics and pandemics, disasters or catastrophes; political or economic instability in principal markets; adverse outcomes in litigation; and general, local and global economic, political, business and market conditions, as well as those risks set forth in the Company’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly under “Item 1A. Risk Factors”

Overview

Our Business

Capri Holdings Limited is a global fashion luxury group, consisting of iconic brands that are industry leaders in design, style and craftsmanship, led by a world-class management team and renowned designers. Our brands cover the full spectrum of fashion luxury categories including women’s and men’s accessories, footwear and ready-to-wear as well as wearable technology, watches, jewelry, eyewear and a full line of fragrance products. Our goal is to continue to extend the global reach of our brands while ensuring that they maintain their independence and exclusive DNA.

Our Versace brand has long been recognized as one of the world’s leading international fashion design houses and is synonymous with Italian glamour and style. Founded in 1978 in Milan, Versace is known for its iconic and unmistakable style and unparalleled craftsmanship, over the past several decades the House of Versace has grown globally from its roots in haute couture, expanding into the design, manufacturing, distribution and retailing of ready-to-wear, accessories, footwear, eyewear, watches, jewelry, fragrance and home furnishings businesses. Versace’s design team is led by Donatella Versace, who has been the brand’s artistic director for over 20 years. Versace distributes its products through a worldwide distribution network, which includes boutiques in some of the world’s most glamorous cities, its e-commerce site, as well as through the most prestigious department and specialty stores worldwide.

36
Our Jimmy Choo brand offers a distinctive, glamorous and fashion-forward product range, enabling it to develop into a leading global luxury accessories brand, whose core product offering is women’s luxury shoes, complemented by accessories, including handbags, small leather goods, scarves and belts, as well as a growing men’s luxury shoes and accessory business. In addition, certain categories, such as fragrances, sunglasses and eyewear are produced under licensing agreements. Jimmy Choo’s design team is led by Sandra Choi, who has been the Creative Director for the brand since its inception in 1996. Jimmy Choo products are unique, instinctively seductive and chic. The brand offers classic and timeless luxury products, as well as innovative products that are intended to set and lead fashion trends. Jimmy Choo is represented through its global store network, its e-commerce sites, as well as through the most prestigious department and specialty stores worldwide.

Our Michael Kors brand was launched almost 40 years ago by Michael Kors, whose vision has taken the Company from its beginnings as an American luxury sportswear house to a global accessories, footwear and apparel company with a global distribution network that has presence in over 100 countries through Company-operated retail stores and e-commerce sites, leading department stores, specialty stores and select licensing partners. Michael Kors is a highly recognized luxury fashion brand in the Americas and Europe with growing brand awareness in other international markets. Michael Kors features distinctive designs, materials and craftsmanship with a jet-set aesthetic that combines stylish elegance and a sporty attitude. Michael Kors offers three primary collections: the Michael Kors Collection luxury line, the MICHAEL Michael Kors accessible luxury line and the Michael Kors Mens line. The Michael Kors Collection establishes the aesthetic authority of the entire brand and is carried by many of our retail stores, our e-commerce sites, as well as in the finest luxury department stores in the world. MICHAEL Michael Kors has a strong focus on accessories, in addition to offering footwear and apparel, and addresses the significant demand opportunity in accessible luxury goods.We have also been developing our men’s business in recognition of the significant opportunity afforded by the Michael Kors brand’s established fashion authority and the expanding men’s market. Taken together, our Michael Kors collections target a broad customer base while retaining our premium luxury image.

Certain Factors Affecting Financial Condition and Results of Operations

COVID-19 Pandemic. A novel strain of coronavirus commonly referred to as COVID-19 has spread rapidly across the globe in recent months, including throughout all major geographies in which we operate (the Americas, EMEA and Asia), resulting in adverse economic conditions and business disruptions, as well as significant volatility in global financial markets. Governments worldwide have imposed varying degrees of preventative and protective actions, such as temporary travel bans, forced business closures, and stay-at-home orders, all in an effort to reduce the spread of the virus. Such factors, among others, have resulted in a significant decline in retail traffic, tourism, and consumer spending on discretionary items. Additionally, during this period of uncertainty, companies across a wide array of industries have implemented various initiatives to reduce operating expenses and preserve cash balances, including work furloughs and reduced pay, which could lower consumers’ disposable income levels or willingness to purchase discretionary items. Further, even after such government restrictions and company initiatives are lifted, consumer behavior, spending levels, and/or shopping preferences, such as their willingness to congregate in shopping centers or other populated locations, could be adversely affected.

In connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced varying degrees of business disruptions and periods of closures of our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities, as have our wholesale customers, licensing partners, suppliers and vendors. Retail traffic also continues to be challenging in those regions in which our stores are open. Additionally, our stores in the Americas and in Europe closed mid-March, and although a significant number of stores have since reopened, a large number of stores remain closed. Our wholesale business has also been adversely affected, particularly in the Americas and Europe, as a result of department store closures and lower traffic and consumer demand.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken preemptive actions to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity, including:

•for Fiscal 2021, our board of directors annual total cash compensation will be reduced by 50%;

•temporarily foregoing and reducing executive compensation for Fiscal 2021. In addition, the company reduced overall salaries at various levels throughout the organization by approximately 20%;

•reducing our corporate workforce in order to generate additional payroll savings;

•temporarily furloughing or reducing work hours for a significant portion of our employees who nevertheless remain eligible for employee benefits during such period;

•applying for national payroll subsidy programs in various countries throughout Europe to further reduce payroll expense;

•significantly reducing inventory purchases by reducing or canceling commitments, redeploying inventory and consolidating upcoming seasons;

37
•extending payment terms of our payables with our partners in order to maintain our financial flexibility for the long term;

•reducing capital expenditures in Fiscal 2021;

•minimizing operating expenses, including decreasing marketing spend, delaying or canceling select new store openings, reducing external third-party services and halting non-critical systems implementations in order to reduce costs;

•temporarily suspended our ERP project

•suspending the remaining $400 million under our current share repurchase program; and

•adding new approximately $230 million 364-day Revolver due June 2021 to bolster cash availability.

The COVID-19 pandemic remains highly volatile and continues to evolve on a daily basis. Accordingly, we cannot predict for how long and to what extent this crisis will impact our business operations or the global economy as a whole. We will continue to assess our operations location-by-location, taking into account the guidance of local governments and global health organizations to determine when our operations can begin returning to normal course of business. See Item 1A — "The COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations" for additional discussion regarding risks to our business associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Establishing brand identity and enhancing global presence. We intend to continue to increase our international presence and global brand recognition by growing our existing international operations through acquisitions, the formation of various joint ventures with international partners and continuing with our international licensing arrangements. We feel this is an efficient method for continued penetration into the global luxury goods market, especially for markets where we have yet to establish a substantial presence. In addition, our growth strategy includes assuming direct control of certain licensed international operations to better manage our growth opportunities in the related regions.

Channel Shift and Demand for Our Accessories and Related Merchandise. Our performance is affected by trends in the luxury goods industry, as well as shifts in demographics and changes in lifestyle preferences. Although the overall consumer spending for personal luxury products has increased in recent years, consumer shopping preferences have continued to shift from physical stores to on-line shopping. We currently expect that this trend will continue in the foreseeable future. We continue to adjust our operating strategy to the changing business environment. We have finalized the planned store closures under the Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan as of the end of Fiscal 2020. As of March 28, 2020, we closed at total of 143 stores at a total cost of $99 million and recorded restructuring charges of $5 million and $41 million in Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019, respectively. Collectively, we continue to anticipate ongoing savings as a result of the store closures and lower depreciation associated with the impairment charges being recorded. In addition, during the second quarter of Fiscal 2021, we announced that we plan to close approximately 170 of our full-price retail stores over the next two years, in order to improve the profitability of our retail store fleet. Over this time period, we expect to incur approximately $75 million of one-time costs associated with these store closures. See Item 9B - Other Information for additional information.

Foreign currency fluctuation. Our consolidated operations are impacted by the relationships between our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and those of our non-U.S. subsidiaries whose functional/local currency is other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the Euro, the British Pound, the Chinese Renminbi, the Japanese Yen, the Korean Won and the Canadian Dollar, among others. We continue to expect volatility in the global foreign currency exchange rates, which may have a negative impact on the reported results of certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in the future, when translated to U.S. Dollars.

Disruptions in shipping and distribution. Our operations are subject to the impact of shipping disruptions as a result of changes or damage to our distribution infrastructure, as well as due to external factors, including the impact of COVID-19. Any future disruptions in our shipping and distribution network could have a negative impact on our results of operations.

38
Costs of Manufacturing and Tariffs. Our industry is subject to volatility in costs related to certain raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products. This volatility applies primarily to costs driven by commodity prices, which can increase or decrease dramatically over a short period of time. In addition, our costs may be impacted by sanction tariffs imposed on our products due to changes in trade terms. On May 10, 2019, the U.S. increased the sanction tariffs rate from 10% to 25% on $200 billion of imports of select product categories (Tranche 3), which includes handbags and travel goods from China, and effective September 1, 2019, a 10% tariff on an additional $300 billion of goods from China, including ready-to-wear, footwear and men’s products, went into effect. If additional tariffs or trade restrictions are implemented by the U.S. or other countries, the cost of our products could increase which could adversely affect our business. In addition, commodity prices and tariffs may have an impact on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. We use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate these effects by sourcing our products as efficiently as possible and diversifying the countries where we produce. In addition, manufacturing labor costs are also subject to degrees of volatility based on local and global economic conditions. We use commercially reasonable efforts to source from localities that suit our manufacturing standards and result in more favorable labor driven costs to our products.

Segment Information

We operate in three reportable segments, which are as follows:

Versace

We generate revenue through the sale of Versace luxury ready-to-wear, accessories, footwear and home furnishings through directly operated Versace boutiques throughout North America (United States and Canada), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and certain parts of Asia, as well as through Versace outlet stores and e-commerce sites. In addition, revenue is generated through wholesale sales to distribution partners (including geographic licensing arrangements), multi-brand department stores and specialty stores worldwide, as well as through product license agreements in connection with the manufacturing and sale of jeans, fragrances, watches, jewelry and eyewear.

Jimmy Choo

We generate revenue through the sale of Jimmy Choo luxury goods to end clients through directly operated Jimmy Choo stores throughout the Americas (United States, Canada and Latin America), EMEA and certain parts of Asia, through our e-commerce sites, as well as through wholesale sales of luxury goods to distribution partners (including geographic licensing arrangements that allow third parties to use the Jimmy Choo tradename in connection with retail and/or wholesale sales of Jimmy Choo branded products in specific geographic regions), multi-brand department stores and specialty stores worldwide. In addition, revenue is generated through product licensing agreements, which allow third parties to use the Jimmy Choo brand name and trademarks in connection with the manufacturing and sale of fragrances, sunglasses and eyewear.

Michael Kors

We generate revenue through the sale of Michael Kors products through four primary Michael Kors retail store formats: “Collection” stores, “Lifestyle” stores (including concessions), outlet stores and e-commerce, through which we sell our products, as well as licensed products bearing our name, directly to the end consumer throughout the Americas, Europe and certain parts of Asia. Our Michael Kors e-commerce business includes e-commerce sites in the U.S., Canada and certain parts of Europe and Asia. We also sell Michael Kors products directly to department stores, primarily located across the Americas and Europe, to specialty stores and travel retail shops in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and to our geographic licensees in certain parts of EMEA, Asia and Brazil. In addition, revenue is generated through product and geographic licensing arrangements, which allow third parties to use the Michael Kors brand name and trademarks in connection with the manufacturing and sale of products, including watches, jewelry, fragrances and eyewear, as well as through geographic licensing arrangements, which allow third parties to use the Michael Kors tradename in connection with the retail and/or wholesale sales of our Michael Kors branded products in specific geographic regions.

39
Unallocated Expenses

In addition to the reportable segments discussed above, we have certain corporate costs that are not directly attributable to our brands and, therefore, are not allocated to segments. Such costs primarily include certain administrative, corporate occupancy, and information systems expenses, including ERP system implementation costs. In addition, certain other costs are not allocated to segments, including restructuring and other charges (including transaction and transition costs related to our recent acquisitions), impairment costs and COVID-19 related charges. The segment structure is consistent with how our chief operating decision maker plans and allocates resources, manages the business and assesses performance. The following table presents our total revenue and (loss) income from operations by segment for Fiscal 2020, Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

___________________

(1)COVID-19 related charges primarily includes incremental inventory reserves and bad debt provision of $92 million and $25 million, respectively, recorded within costs of goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operation.

40
The following table presents our global network of retail stores and wholesale doors:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table presents our retail stores by geographic location:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Key Performance Indicators and Statistics

We use a number of key indicators of operating results to evaluate our performance, including the following (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41
Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Critical accounting policies are those that are the most important to the portrayal of our results of operations and financial condition and that require our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. In applying such policies, we must use certain assumptions that are based on our informed judgments, assessments of probability and best estimates. Estimates, by their nature, are subjective and are based on analysis of available information, including current and historical factors and the experience and judgment of management. We evaluate our assumptions and estimates on an ongoing basis. While our significant accounting policies are detailed in Note 2 to the accompanying financial statements, our critical accounting policies are discussed below and include revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, share-based compensation, derivatives and income taxes.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for goods or services. We recognize retail store revenue when control of the product is transferred at the point of sale at our owned stores, including concessions. Revenue from sales through our e-commerce sites is recognized at the time of delivery to the customer, reduced by an estimate of returns. Wholesale revenue is recognized net of estimates for sales returns, discounts, markdowns and allowances, after merchandise is shipped and control of the underlying product is transferred to our wholesale customers. To arrive at net sales for retail, gross sales are reduced by actual customer returns, as well as by a provision for estimated future customer returns, which is based on management’s review of historical and current customer returns. The amounts reserved for retail sales returns were $12 million, $15 million and $12 million at March 28, 2020, March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. Net sales for wholesale equals gross sales, reduced by provisions for estimated future returns based on current expectations, as well as trade discounts, markdowns, allowances, operational chargebacks, and certain cooperative selling expenses. Total sales reserves for wholesale were $154 million, $112 million and $109 million at March 28, 2020, March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. These estimates are based on such factors as historical trends, actual and forecasted performance, and market conditions, which are reviewed by management on a quarterly basis. Our historical estimates of these costs were not materially different from actual results.

Royalty revenue generated from product licenses, which includes contributions for advertising, is based on reported sales of licensed products bearing our tradenames at rates specified in the license agreements. These agreements are also subject to contractual minimum levels. Royalty revenue generated by geographic licensing agreements is recognized as it is earned under the licensing agreements based on reported sales of licensees applicable to specified periods, as outlined in the agreements. These agreements allow for the use of our tradenames to sell our branded products in specific geographic regions.

During Fiscal 2018, we launched our Michael Kors customer loyalty program, which allows customers to earn points on qualifying purchases toward monetary and non-monetary rewards, which may be redeemed for purchases at our retail stores and e-commerce sites. We allocate a portion of the initial sales transaction based on the estimated relative fair value of the benefits based on projected timing of future redemptions and historical activity. These amounts include estimated “breakage” for points that are not expected to be redeemed. The contract liability, net of an estimated “breakage,” is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. The contract liability was $2 million and $3 million as of March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, respectively. Our breakage and other assumptions used to determine the estimated fair value of benefits are estimates, which could vary significantly from actual benefits that will be redeemed in the future.

Inventories

Our inventory costs include amounts paid to independent manufacturers, plus duties and freight to bring the goods to the Company’s warehouses, as well as shipments to stores. We continuously evaluate the composition of our inventory and make adjustments when the cost of inventory is not expected to be fully recoverable. The net realizable value of our inventory is estimated based on historical experience, current and forecasted demand and market conditions. In addition, reserves for inventory losses are estimated based on historical experience and inventory counts. Our inventory reserves are estimates, which could vary significantly from actual results if future economic conditions, customer demand or competition differ from expectations. Our historical estimates of these adjustments have not differed materially from actual results.

42
The combined total of raw materials and work in process inventory recorded on the our consolidated balance sheets as of March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 were $27 million and $25 million, respectively. The net realizable value of our inventory as of March 28, 2020 includes the adverse impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. This includes the impact from temporary retail store closures, wholesale customer store closures, reductions in retail store traffic, international tourism, and consumer consumption. 

Long-lived Assets 

We evaluate all long-lived assets, including operating lease right-of-use assets, property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such asset may not be recoverable. For the purposes of impairment testing, we group our long-lived assets according to their lowest level of use, such as aggregating and capitalizing all construction costs related to a retail store into right-of-use assets, leasehold improvements and those related to our wholesale business into shop-in-shops. Our leasehold improvements are typically amortized over the life of the store lease, including highly probable renewals, and our shop-in-shops are amortized over a useful life of three or four years. Our impairment testing is based on our best estimate of the future operating cash flows. If the sum of our estimated undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset is less than the asset’s carrying value, we recognize an impairment charge, which is measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. The fair values determined by management require significant judgment and include certain assumptions regarding future sales and expense growth rates, discount rates and estimates of current real estate market values. As such, these estimates may differ from actual results and are affected by future market and economic conditions. 

During Fiscal 2020, Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018, we recorded impairment charges of $357 million, $21 million and $33 million, respectively, related to our retail long-lived assets. The impairment charges recorded during Fiscal 2020 primarily related to operating lease right-of-use assets and the impairment charges recorded during Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018 primarily related to property and equipment and lease rights for underperforming Michael Kors retail stores. Please refer to Note 8, Note 9 and Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated audited financial statements for additional information.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets

We record intangible assets based on their fair value on the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recorded for the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired. The brand intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisitions of Versace and Jimmy Choo were determined to be an indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are not subject to amortization. We perform an impairment assessment of goodwill, as well as the Versace brand and Jimmy Choo brand intangible assets on an annual basis, or whenever impairment indicators exist. In the absence of any impairment indicators, goodwill, the Versace brand and the Jimmy Choo brand are assessed for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of the business.

We may assess our goodwill and our brand indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment initially using a qualitative approach to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of these assets is greater than their carrying value. When performing a qualitative test, we assess various factors including industry and market conditions, macroeconomic conditions and performance of our businesses. If the results of the qualitative assessment indicate that it is more likely than not that our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired, a quantitative impairment analysis would be performed to determine if impairment is required. We may also elect to perform a quantitative analysis of goodwill and our indefinite-lived intangible assets initially rather than using a qualitative approach. 

The impairment testing for goodwill is performed at the reporting unit level. The valuation methods used in the quantitative fair value assessment include a discounted cash flow analysis, which requires management to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding industry trends and future profitability of our reporting units. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the related carrying value, the reporting unit’s goodwill is considered not to be impaired and no further testing is performed. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recorded for the difference. This valuation is affected by certain estimates, including our future revenue growth rates, margins and discount rates. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist, and, therefore, that goodwill may be impaired.

43
When performing a quantitative impairment assessment of our brand indefinite-lived intangible assets, the fair value of the Versace and the Jimmy Choo brands is estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the "relief from royalty" method, assuming that a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in lieu of ownership for this intangible asset. This approach is dependent on many factors, including estimates of future growth, royalty rates, and discount rates. Actual future results may differ from these estimates. Impairment loss is recognized when the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived brand intangible assets is less than its carrying amount.

During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, we performed our annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analysis for our three brands. Based on the results of our qualitative impairment assessment, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the Michael Kors’ reporting units exceeded their carrying value and, therefore, were not impaired. We elected to perform our annual goodwill and brand indefinite-lived impairment analysis for both the Versace and Jimmy Choo using a quantitative approach, using a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate the fair values of each brands' reporting units. Based on the results of these assessments, we concluded that the fair values of the Jimmy Choo Retail and Jimmy Choo Licensing reporting units, along with the Jimmy Choo brand indefinite-lived intangible asset did not exceed the related carrying amounts. Jimmy Choo expects to experience a reduction in profitability trends, primarily related to the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in declines in sales driven by the full and partial closures of a significant portion of our stores globally. 

Accordingly, we recorded impairment charges of $171 million related to the Jimmy Choo Retail and Jimmy Choo Licensing reporting units and $180 million related to the Jimmy Choo brand intangible asset during Fiscal 2020. The impairment charges were recorded within impairment of assets on our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income for the fiscal year ended March 28, 2020. If the discount rate increased by 0.5%, it may cause an additional impairment of $36 million and $13 million for the Jimmy Choo Retail and Licensing reporting units and $21 million for Jimmy Choo Brand intangible assets. See Note 9 to the accompanying audited financial statements for information relating to its annual impairment analysis performed during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020.

We also elected to perform our annual goodwill and brand impairment analysis for Versace using a quantitative approach, using a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate the fair values of each reporting unit. We concluded that the fair values of the Versace reporting units and the brand intangible asset exceeded the related carrying amounts and there were no impairment recorded. The fair value of the Versace Retail reporting unit, which has a goodwill balance of $213 million, is 4% higher than the carrying value. The fair value of the Versace wholesale brand intangible asset, which has a balance of $312 million, is 3% higher than the carrying value.

It is possible that our conclusions regarding impairment or recoverability of goodwill or other indefinite intangible assets could change in future periods if, for example, (i) our businesses do not perform as projected, (ii) overall economic conditions in future years vary from current assumptions, (iii) business conditions or strategies change from our current assumptions, (iv) the change of discount rates, or (v) the identification of our reporting units change, among other factors. Such changes could result in a future impairment charge of goodwill or other indefinite intangible assets.

Share-based Compensation

We grant share-based awards to certain of our employees and directors. The grant date fair value of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which requires us to use subjective assumptions. The closing market price at the grant date is used to determine the grant date fair value of restricted share units (“RSUs”) and performance-based RSUs. These values are recognized as expense over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures, based on expected attainment of pre-established performance goals for performance grants, or the passage of time for those grants which have only time-based vesting requirements. Compensation expense for performance-based RSUs is recognized over the employees' requisite service period when attainment of the performance goals is deemed probable, which involves judgment as to achievement of certain performance metrics.

We use our own historical experience in determining the expected holding period and volatility of our time-based share option awards. Determining the grant date fair value of share-based awards requires considerable judgment, including estimating expected volatility, expected term, risk-free rate, and forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, the fair value of future awards and resulting share-based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have estimated in the past.

44
Derivative Financial Instruments

Forward Foreign Currency Exchange Contracts

We use forward currency exchange contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency for certain of our transactions. We are exposed to risks on certain purchase commitments to foreign suppliers based on the value of our purchasing subsidiaries’ local currency relative to the currency requirement of the supplier on the date of the commitment. As such, we enter into forward currency contracts that generally mature in 12 months or less, which is consistent with the related purchase commitments. We designate certain contracts related to the purchase of inventory that qualify for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges. All of our derivative instruments are recorded in our consolidated balance sheets at fair value on a gross basis, regardless of their hedge designation. The effective portion of changes in the fair value for contracts designated as cash flow hedges is recorded in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item effects earnings. When the inventory related to forecasted inventory purchases that are being hedged is sold to a third party, the gains or losses deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are recognized within cost of goods sold. We use regression analysis to assess effectiveness of derivative instruments that are designated as hedges, which compares the change in the fair value of the derivative instrument to the change in the related hedged item. Effectiveness is assessed on a quarterly basis and any portion of the designated hedge contracts deemed ineffective is recorded to foreign currency gain (loss). If the hedge is no longer expected to be highly effective in the future, future changes in the fair value are recognized in earnings. For those contracts that are not designated as hedges, changes in the fair value are recorded in foreign currency gain (loss) in our consolidated statements of operations.

Net Investment Hedges

We also use fixed-to-fixed cross currency swap agreements to hedge our net investments in foreign operations against future volatility in the exchange rates between its U.S. Dollars and these foreign currencies. We have elected the spot method of designating these contracts under ASU 2017-12, as defined in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, and have designated these contracts as net investment hedges. The net gain or loss on net investment hedges is reported within foreign currency translation gains and losses (“CTA”), as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheets. Interest accruals and coupon payments are recognized directly in interest expense in our statement of operations and comprehensive income. Upon discontinuation of a hedge, all previously recognized amounts remain in CTA until the net investment is sold, diluted or liquidated.

We are exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. In order to mitigate counterparty credit risk, we only enter into contracts with carefully selected financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and certain other financial factors, adhering to established limits for credit exposure.

During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, we terminated all of our net investment hedges related to our Euro-denominated subsidiaries. The early termination of these hedges resulted in the receipt of $296 million in cash during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020.

Income Taxes

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect temporary differences between the tax basis and financial reporting basis of our assets and liabilities and are determined using the tax rates and laws in effect for the periods in which the differences are expected to reverse. We periodically assess the realizability of deferred tax assets and the adequacy of deferred tax liabilities, based on the results of local, state, federal or foreign statutory tax audits or our own estimates and judgments.

Realization of deferred tax assets associated with net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable income prior to their expiration in the applicable tax jurisdiction. We periodically review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets and provide valuation allowances as deemed necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to amounts that more-likely-than-not will be realized. This determination involves considerable judgment and our management considers many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of deferred tax assets, including recent earnings results within various taxing jurisdictions, expectations of future taxable income, the carryforward periods remaining and other factors. Changes in the required valuation allowance are recorded in income in the period such determination is made. Deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if our estimates of taxable income during the carryforward period are significantly reduced or alternative tax strategies are no longer viable.

45
We recognize the impact of an uncertain income tax position taken on our income tax returns at the largest amount that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority. The effect of an uncertain income tax position will not be taken into account if the position has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. Our tax positions are analyzed periodically (at least quarterly) and adjustments are made as events occur that warrant adjustments for those positions. We record interest expense and penalties payable to relevant tax authorities as income tax expense.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, local governments enacted, or are in the process of enacting, measures to provide aid and economic stimulus to companies. On March 27, 2020, the United States government enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”), which includes various tax provisions aimed at providing economic relief. We realized a slight favorable cash flow impact in Fiscal 2020 as a result of the deferral of income tax payments under the CARES Act and other local government relief initiatives. We also considered the significant adverse impact of COVID-19 on our business in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Based on this assessment, we determined that valuation allowances of approximately $65 million were needed against a portion of our non-US deferred tax assets. We will continue to monitor the impacts of COVID-19 on our ability to realize our deferred tax assets and on the tax provision.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Please refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for detailed information relating to recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements and the associated impacts.

46
Results of Operations

A discussion regarding our results of operations for Fiscal 2020 compared to Fiscal 2019 is presented below. A discussion regarding our results of operations for Fiscal 2019 compared to Fiscal 2018 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 30, 2019, filed with the SEC on May 29, 2019, which is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and our investor website at www.capriholdings.com.

Comparison of Fiscal 2020 with Fiscal 2019

The following table details the results of our operations for Fiscal 2020 and Fiscal 2019 and expresses the relationship of certain line items to total revenue as a percentage (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ___________________

NM Not meaningful.

(1)Restructuring and other charges includes store closure costs recorded in connection with the Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan and other restructuring initiatives, and costs recorded in connection with our acquisitions of Gianni Versace S.r.l and Jimmy Choo Group Limited.

Total Revenue

Total revenue increased $313 million, or 6.0%, to $5.551 billion for Fiscal 2020, compared to $5.238 billion for Fiscal 2019, which included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $45 million primarily related to the weakening of the Euro, the Chinese Renminbi, the British Pound and the Canadian Dollar against the U.S. Dollar in Fiscal 2020, as compared to Fiscal 2019. On a constant currency basis, our total revenue increased $358 million, or 6.8%. Total revenue for Fiscal 2020 included approximately $723 million of incremental revenue attributable to Versace, which was acquired and consolidated into our results of operations effective December 31, 2018. The remaining decrease is attributable to lower Jimmy Choo and Michael Kors revenues, as compared to the prior year, which includes the adverse impact of COVID-19.

47
Gross Profit

Gross profit increased $91 million, or 2.9%, to $3.271 billion during Fiscal 2020, compared to $3.180 billion for Fiscal 2019, which included net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $28 million. Gross profit as a percentage of total revenue decreased 180 basis points to 58.9% during Fiscal 2020, compared to 60.7% during Fiscal 2019. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily attributable to incremental inventory reserves of $92 million recorded in connection with COVID-19 and lower gross profit for Michael Kors primarily driven by increased markdowns during Fiscal 2020, as compared to Fiscal 2019, partially offset by the inclusion of Versace, which benefited our gross margin 140 basis points.

Total Operating Expenses

Total operating expenses increased $1.018 billion, or 41.6%, to $3.463 billion during Fiscal 2020, compared to $2.445 billion for Fiscal 2019, which included incremental operating expenses of $472 million associated with the recently acquired Versace business. Our operating expenses included a net favorable foreign currency impact of approximately $56 million. Total operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 62.4% in Fiscal 2020, compared to 46.7% in Fiscal 2019. The components that comprise total operating expenses are detailed below.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $389 million, or 18.7%, to $2.464 billion during Fiscal 2020, compared to $2.075 billion for Fiscal 2019. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to incremental costs of $421 million associated with the recently acquired Versace business, which has been consolidated in our operations beginning on December 31, 2018, increased retail store and e-commerce related costs and bad debt expense related to COVID-19, partially offset by decreased rent and occupancy expense.

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 44.4% during Fiscal 2020, compared to 39.6% for Fiscal 2019, primarily due to the inclusion of expenses associated with the Versace business, increased retail store and e-commerce related costs and bad debt expense related to COVID-19 of $25 million.

Corporate unallocated expenses, which are included within selling, general and administrative expenses discussed above, but are not directly attributable to a reportable segment and exclude COVID-19 related charges, increased $59 million, or 63.4%, to $152 million in Fiscal 2020 as compared to $93 million in Fiscal 2019, primarily attributable to the inclusion of ERP system implementation costs in the current year.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization increased $24 million, or 10.7%, to $249 million during Fiscal 2020, compared to $225 million for Fiscal 2019. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily attributable to incremental depreciation and amortization expenses of $51 million attributable to the Versace business (including amortization of purchase accounting adjustments), partially offset by lower depreciation due to previously recorded property and equipment impairment charges. Depreciation and amortization increased to 4.5% as a percentage of total revenue during Fiscal 2020, compared to 4.3% for Fiscal 2019.

Impairment of Assets

During Fiscal 2020, we recognized asset impairment charges of $708 million. The increase was primarily related to the impairment of operating lease right-of-use assets, as well as the impairment of Jimmy Choo goodwill and its brand intangible assets as part of our annual impairment assessments (see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information). During Fiscal 2019, we recognized asset impairment charges of approximately $21 million, of which $17 million related to underperforming Michael Kors full-price retail store locations, some of which were closed as part of our Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan.

Restructuring and Other Charges

During Fiscal 2020, we recognized restructuring and other charges of $42 million, which included restructuring charges of $8 million, primarily related to our Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan, and other costs of $34 million. The other costs recorded during Fiscal 2020 included $24 million related to the acquisition of Versace, $9 million in connection with the Jimmy Choo acquisition, and $1 million in connection with the acquisition of Gozzi. (see Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).

48
During Fiscal 2019, we recognized restructuring and other charges of $124 million, which included restructuring charges of $45 million, primarily associated with our Michael Kors Retail Fleet Optimization Plan and other costs of $79 million, $52 million of which related to the Versace acquisition and $27 million related to the Jimmy Choo acquisition.

(Loss) Income from Operations

As a result of the foregoing, income from operations decreased $927 million, or 126.1%, to a loss from operations of $192 million during Fiscal 2020, compared to income from operations of $735 million for Fiscal 2019. Income from operations as a percentage of total revenue decreased to (3.5)% in Fiscal 2020, compared to 14.0% in Fiscal 2019. See Segment Information above for a reconciliation of our segment operating income to total operating income.

Interest expense, net

Interest expense, net decreased $20 million, or 52.6%, to $18 million for Fiscal 2020, as compared to $38 million for Fiscal 2019, primarily due to a reduction of interest expense related to cross-currency swaps associated with our net investment hedge during Fiscal 2020, as compared to Fiscal 2019, largely offset by increased interest expense attributable to higher average borrowings outstanding in the current year (see Note 12 and Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).

Foreign Currency Loss

We recognized a net foreign currency loss of $11 million during Fiscal 2020, primarily attributable to the revaluation and settlement of certain of our accounts payable in currencies other than the functional currency, as well as the remeasurement of dollar-denominated intercompany loans with certain of our subsidiaries (see Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).

We recognized a net foreign currency loss of $80 million during Fiscal 2019, primarily attributable to a $77 million loss related to forward foreign currency exchange derivative contracts to hedge the transaction price of the Versace acquisition (please refer to Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information).

Provision for Income Taxes

We recognized $10 million of income tax expense during Fiscal 2020, compared with $79 million for Fiscal 2019. Our effective tax rate for Fiscal 2020 was (4.7)%, compared to 12.7% for Fiscal 2019. The decrease in our income tax provision was primarily due to the impact of a consolidated pre-tax loss as well as the impact of a release of income tax reserves during Fiscal 2020. The decrease was partially offset by the effects of valuation allowances established on a portion of our non-US deferred tax assets, a lower favorable effect of our global financing activities during Fiscal 2020, compared to Fiscal 2019, as well as non-tax deductible goodwill impairment impacts. The global financing activities are related to our previously disclosed 2014 move of our principal executive office from Hong Kong to the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and decision to become a U.K. tax resident. In connection with this decision, we funded our international growth strategy through intercompany debt financing arrangements between certain of our U.S., U.K. and Switzerland subsidiaries in December 2015. Accordingly, due to the difference in the statutory income tax rates between these jurisdictions, we realized a higher effective tax rate on the consolidated pre-tax loss.

Our effective tax rate may fluctuate from time to time due to the effects of changes in U.S. state and local taxes and tax rates in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, factors such as the geographic mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation and the results of various global tax strategies, may also impact our effective tax rate in future periods.

Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Capri

As a result of the foregoing, our net income attributable to Capri decreased $766 million, or 141.1%, to a net loss of $223 million during Fiscal 2020, compared to net income of $543 million for Fiscal 2019.

49
Segment Information

Versace

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues

Versace revenues increased $706 million to $843 million for Fiscal 2020, compared to $137 million for Fiscal 2019. Fiscal 2020 included incremental revenue of $723 million due to the inclusion of the Versace business acquired on December 31, 2018 for the entire Fiscal 2020 year. The remaining decrease in sales reflects the adverse impacts related to COVID-19.

Loss from Operations

During Fiscal 2020, we recorded a loss from operations of $8 million compared to a loss of $11 million for the period from the date of acquisition through March 30, 2019 (after amortization of non-cash purchase accounting adjustments). Operating margin in Fiscal 2020 was (0.9)% compared to (8.0)% for the period from the date of acquisition through March 30, 2019.

Jimmy Choo

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues

Jimmy Choo revenues decreased $35 million, or 5.9% to $555 million for Fiscal 2020, compared to $590 million for Fiscal 2019, which included unfavorable foreign currency effects of $5 million. On a constant currency basis, revenue decreased $30 million, or 5.1%, primarily reflecting adverse impacts related to COVID-19.

(Loss) Income from Operations

During Fiscal 2020, Jimmy Choo recorded a loss from operation of $13 million compared to income from operations of $20 million for Fiscal 2019. Operating margin declined 570 basis points from 3.4% for Fiscal 2019, to (2.3)% for Fiscal 2020, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, including retail store expenses, as well as investments in new stores, while also reflecting the adverse impacts related to COVID-19.

50
Michael Kors

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenues

Michael Kors revenues decreased $358 million, or 7.9%, to $4.153 billion for Fiscal 2020, compared to $4.511 billion for Fiscal 2019, which included unfavorable foreign currency effects of $40 million. On a constant currency basis, revenue decreased $318 million, or 7.0%. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to lower sales of women's accessories and watches, and a decrease in comparable stores sales of $146 million partially related to the adverse effects of COVID-19. This decrease was partially offset by higher sales of women's footwear and men's accessories, as well as a 9% increase in e-commerce sales.

Income from Operations

Income from operations for our Michael Kors segment decreased $114 million, or 11.8%, to $850 million for Fiscal 2020, compared to $964 million for Fiscal 2019. Income from operations as a percentage of Michael Kors revenue decreased 90 basis points to 20.5% in Fiscal 2020, compared to 21.4% in Fiscal 2019, largely due to a decrease in gross profit margin, as previously discussed.

51
Liquidity and Capital Resources

Liquidity

Our primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated from our operations, along with borrowings available under our credit facilities (see below discussion regarding “Revolving Credit Facilities”) and available cash and cash equivalents. Our primary use of this liquidity is to fund the ongoing cash requirements, including our working capital needs and capital investments in our business, debt repayments, acquisitions, returns of capital including share repurchases and other corporate activities. We believe that the cash generated from our operations, together with borrowings available under our revolving credit facilities and available cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the next 12 months, including investments made and expenses incurred in connection with our store growth plans, shop-in-shop growth, investments in corporate and distribution facilities, continued systems development, e-commerce and marketing initiatives. We spent $223 million on capital expenditures during Fiscal 2020, and expect to spend approximately $130 million during Fiscal 2021. In response to the continued global health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, this represents a significant reduction to capital expenditures in Fiscal 2021. The majority of the Fiscal 2020 expenditures related to our retail operations (including e-commerce), ERP system implementation and our corporate offices.

The following table sets forth key indicators of our liquidity and capital resources (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Provided by Operating Activities

Cash provided by operating activities increased $165 million to $859 million during Fiscal 2020, as compared to $694 million for Fiscal 2019, which was primarily due to increases related to changes in our working capital, primarily attributable to decreased inventory purchases, as well as the timing of payments and receipts. The net increase in cash flows also included decreases to our net income after non-cash adjustments.

Cash provided by operating activities decreased $368 million to $694 million during Fiscal 2019, as compared to $1.062 billion for Fiscal 2018, which was primarily due to decreases related to changes in our working capital primarily attributable to increased inventory purchases as well as the timing of payments and receipts. The net decrease in cash flows also included decreases to our net income after non-cash adjustments, partially offset by an increase in tax-related long-term liabilities.

52
Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities

Net cash provided by investing activities was $62 million during Fiscal 2020, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $2.125 billion during Fiscal 2019. The $2.187 billion increase in cash from investing activities was primarily attributable to $1.862 billion of cash paid, net of cash acquired, in connection with our Fiscal 2019 acquisition of the Versace business. The increase in cash was also due to a $77 million realized loss related to an undesignated derivative contract during Fiscal 2019 associated with the Versace acquisition and the settlement of net investment hedges of $298 million during Fiscal 2020, partly offset by higher capital expenditures of $42 million, due to higher spending related to the ERP system implementation and expenditures related to corporate infrastructure.

Net cash used in investing activities increased $592 million to $2.125 billion during Fiscal 2019, compared to $1.533 billion during Fiscal 2018. The decrease in cash was primarily attributable to a $460 million increase of cash paid, net of cash acquired, in connection with our Fiscal 2019 acquisition of the Versace business, as compared to our acquisition of the Jimmy Choo business during Fiscal 2018. The decrease in cash was also due to a $77 million realized loss related to an undesignated derivative contract during Fiscal 2019 associated with the Versace acquisition, as well as higher capital expenditures of $61 million, due to higher spending related to build-outs for new and renovated retail stores and expenditures related to corporate infrastructure.

Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $497 million during Fiscal 2020, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $1.451 billion during Fiscal 2019. The increase in cash used by financing activities of $1.948 billion was due to decreased debt borrowings of $2.038 billion, net of debt repayments, primarily attributable to higher term loan borrowings to finance the acquisition of Versace during Fiscal 2019, partially offset by a decrease of $105 million in cash payments to repurchase our ordinary shares during Fiscal 2020.

Net cash provided by financing activities increased $1.062 billion to $1.451 billion during Fiscal 2019, compared to $389 million during Fiscal 2018. The increase in cash from financing activities was due to increased debt borrowings of $908 million, net of debt repayments, primarily attributable to higher term loan borrowings to finance the acquisition of Versace, as well as a decrease of $154 million in cash payments to repurchase our ordinary shares.

53
Debt Facilities 

The following table presents a summary of the Company’s borrowing capacity and amounts outstanding as of March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________________

(1)As of the last day of Fiscal 2020, the 2018 Credit Facility contained customary events of default and required us to maintain a leverage ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter of no greater than 3.75 to 1, calculated based on the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness plus the capitalized amount of all operating lease liabilities presented on our consolidated balance sheets to Consolidated EBITDAR for the last four consecutive fiscal quarters. Consolidated EBITDAR is defined as consolidated net income plus income tax expense, net interest expense, depreciation and amortization expense, consolidated rent expense 

54
and other non-cash charges, subject to certain deductions. The 2018 Credit Facility also includes other customary covenants that limit additional indebtedness, guarantees, liens, acquisitions and other investments and cash dividends. As of March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants related to our agreements then in effect governing our debt.

(2)Recorded as short-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets as of March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019.

(3)Recorded as long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets as of March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, except for the current portion of $128 million and $80 million, respectively, outstanding under the 2018 Term Loan Facility, which was recorded within short-term debt at March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019.

We believe that our 2018 Credit Facility is adequately diversified with no undue concentration in any one financial institution. As of March 28, 2020, there were 26 financial institutions participating in the facility, with none maintaining a maximum commitment percentage in excess of 10%. We have no reason to believe that the participating institutions will be unable to fulfill their obligations to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the 2018 Credit Facility.

See Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for detailed information relating to our credit facilities and debt obligations.

Share Repurchase Program

The following table presents our treasury share repurchases during the fiscal years ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____________________________

(1)The share-repurchase program expired on May 25, 2019.

On August 1, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a new $500 million share repurchase program, which was set to expire August 1, 2021. As of March 28, 2020, the remaining availability under our share repurchase program was $400 million. Share repurchases may be made in open market or privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, trading restrictions under the our insider trading policy, and other relevant factors. This program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.

The share repurchase program was suspended on April 6, 2020 in response to the continued global health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments

As of March 28, 2020, our commercial commitments and contractual obligations were as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

55
Operating lease obligations represent our equipment leases and the minimum lease rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases for our real estate locations globally. In addition to the above amounts, we are typically required to pay real estate taxes, contingent rent based on sales volume and other occupancy costs relating to our leased properties for our retail stores.

Inventory purchase obligations represent our contractual agreements relating to future purchases of inventory.

Other commitments include our non-cancelable contractual obligations related to marketing and advertising agreements, information technology agreements, and supply agreements.

Excluded from the above commitments is $99 million of long-term liabilities related to net uncertain tax positions, due to the uncertainty of the time and nature of resolution.

The above table also excludes current liabilities (other than short-term debt) recorded as of March 28, 2020, as these items will be paid within one year, and non-current liabilities that have no cash outflows associated with them (e.g., deferred taxes).

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have not created, and are not party to, any special-purpose or off-balance sheet entities for the purpose of raising capital, incurring debt or operating our business. In addition to the commitments in the above table, our off-balance sheet commitments relating to our outstanding letters of credit were $24 million at March 28, 2020, including $6 million in letters of credit issued outside of the 2018 Credit Facility. In addition, as of March 28, 2020, bank guarantees of approximately $18 million were supported by our Versace Credit Facility. We do not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements or relationships with entities that are not consolidated into our financial statements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues, expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Effects of Inflation

We do not believe that our sales or operating results have been materially impacted by inflation during the periods presented in our financial statements. However, we may experience an increase in cost pressure from our suppliers in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our gross profit results in the periods effected.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk