PART I  

 Item 1.  

Business.   

Loews Corporation was incorporated in 1969 and is a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business:  

   • 

commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, an 89% owned subsidiary);   

   • 

operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., a 53% owned subsidiary);   

   • 

transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a wholly owned subsidiary);   

   • 

operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary); and   

   • 

manufacture of rigid plastic packaging solutions (Altium Packaging LLC, formerly known as Consolidated Container Company LLC, a 99% owned subsidiary).   

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Report to “Loews Corporation,” “the Company,” “Parent Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or like terms refer to the business of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries.  

We have five reportable segments comprised of CNA Financial Corporation, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, Loews Hotels Holding Corporation and the Corporate segment. The operations of Altium Packaging LLC are included in the Corporate segment. Each of our operating subsidiaries is headed by a chief executive officer who is responsible for the operation of its business and has the duties and authority commensurate with that position. Additional financial information on each of our segments is included under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”).   

CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION  

CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “CNA”) is an insurance holding company. CNA’s property and casualty and remaining life and group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company (“CCC”), The Continental Insurance Company, Western Surety Company, CNA Insurance Company Limited, Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Limited and its subsidiaries (“Hardy”) and CNA Insurance Company (Europe) S.A. CNA accounted for 72.3%, 72.0% and 69.8% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.  

CNA’s insurance products primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA’s services include warranty, risk management, information services and claims administration. CNA’s products and services are primarily marketed through independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of customers, including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups.  

Property & Casualty Operations  

CNA’s commercial property and casualty insurance operations (“Property & Casualty Operations”) includes its Specialty, Commercial and International lines of business.  

Specialty  

Specialty provides management and professional liability and other coverages through property and casualty products and services using a network of brokers, independent agencies and managing general underwriters. Specialty includes the following business groups:   

3 

Table of Contents 

Management & Professional Liability: Management & Professional Liability consists of the following coverages and products: 

   • 

professional liability coverages and risk management services to various professional firms, including architects, real estate agents, accounting firms and law firms;   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   • 

insurance products to serve the health care industry including professional and general liability as well as associated standard property and casualty coverages. Key customer groups include aging services, allied medical facilities, dentists, physicians, hospitals, nurses and other medical practitioners.   

Surety: Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial surety bonds. Surety provides surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states. 

Warranty and Alternative Risks: Warranty and Alternative Risks provides extended service contracts and insurance products that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for vehicles, portable electronic communication devices and other consumer goods. Service contracts are generally distributed by commission-based independent representatives and sold by auto dealerships and retailers in North America to customers in conjunction with the purchase of a new or used vehicle or new consumer goods. Additionally, CNA’s insurance companies may issue contractual liability insurance policies or guaranteed asset protection reimbursement insurance policies to cover the liabilities of these service contracts issued by affiliated entities or third parties. 

Commercial  

Commercial works with a network of brokers and independent agents to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance products and services to small, middle-market and large businesses. Property products include standard and excess property, marine and boiler and machinery coverages. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as workers’ compensation, general and product liability, commercial auto and umbrella coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs and total risk management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace. These property and casualty

 products are presented in the following insurance groups: Middle Market, Small Business and Other Commercial insurance groups. 

International  

International underwrites property and casualty coverages on a global basis through its two insurance companies based in the United Kingdom and Luxembourg, a branch operation in Canada as well as through CNA’s Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”) syndicate. Underwriting activities are managed through three business units that operate across all locations: Property and Energy & Marine, Casualty and Specialty. International is managed from headquarters in London.  

Property & Casualty Structure  

CNA’s commercial property & casualty underwriting operations presence in the United States of America (“U.S.”) consists of field underwriting locations and centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities and also act as call centers to optimize service. CNA’s claim operations presence in the U.S. consists of primary locations where it handles multiple claim types and key business functions, as well as regional claim offices which are aligned with CNA’s underwriting field structure. CNA has property & casualty underwriting operations in Canada, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and Continental Europe, as well as access to business placed at Lloyd’s through Syndicate 382.   

4 

Table of Contents 

Other Insurance Operations  

Other Insurance Operations include CNA’s long term care business that is in 

run-off, certain corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and certain property and casualty businesses in 

run-off, including CNA Re and asbestos and environmental pollution (“A&EP”). 

Other  

Competition: The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive both as to rate and service. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. Accordingly, CNA must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. CNA is one of the largest commercial property and casualty insurance companies in the U.S. 

Current Regulation: The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. Regulatory oversight by applicable agencies is exercised through review of submitted filings and information, examinations (both financial and market conduct), direct inquiries and interviews. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports and regulating capital adequacy and the type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to corporate governance requirements, risk management practices and disclosures and premium rate regulations requiring rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets or payments may be subject to prior notice or approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfers or payments. 

As CNA’s insurance operations are conducted in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, CNA is subject to a number of regulatory agency requirements applicable to a portion, or all, of CNA’s operations. These include but are not limited to, the State of Illinois Department of Insurance (which is CNA’s global group-wide supervisor), the U.K. Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada, the Luxembourg insurance regulator Commissariat aux Assurances and the Bermuda Monetary Authority.  

Domestic insurers are also required by state insurance regulators to provide coverage to certain insureds who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. CNA’s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state.  

Further, domestic insurance companies are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty funds are governed by state insurance guaranty associations which levy assessments to meet the funding needs of insolvent insurer estates. Other insurance-related assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations including disaster relief funds, rating bureaus, insurance departments, and workers’ compensation second injury funds, or by industry organizations that assist in the statistical analysis and ratemaking process and CNA has the ability to recoup certain of these assessments from policyholders.  

Although the U.S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory initiatives can affect the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposals relating to terrorism and natural catastrophe exposures, cybersecurity risk management, federal financial services reforms and certain tax reforms.  

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019 (“TRIPRA”) provides for a federal government backstop for insured terrorism risks through 2027. The mitigating effect of such law is part of the analysis of CNA’s overall risk posture for terrorism and, accordingly, CNA’s risk positioning may change if such law was modified.   

5 

Table of Contents 

CNA also continues to invest in the security of its systems and network on an enterprise-wide basis. This requires investment of a significant amount of resources by CNA on an ongoing basis. Potential implications of possible cybersecurity legislation on such current investment, if any, are uncertain.  

The foregoing laws, regulations and proposals, either separately or in the aggregate, create a regulatory and legal environment that may require changes in CNA’s business plan or significant investment of resources in order to operate in an effective and compliant manner.  

Additionally, various legislative and regulatory efforts to reform the tort liability system have, and will continue to, affect the industry. New causes of action and theories of damages continue to be proposed in court actions and by federal and state legislatures that continue to expand liability for insurers and their policyholders.  

Hardy, a specialized Lloyd’s underwriter, is also supervised by the Council of Lloyd’s, which is the franchisor for all Lloyd’s operations. The Council of Lloyd’s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd’s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plan of each syndicate is subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd’s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates.  

Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, referred to as Solvency II, apply to CNA’s European operations and are enacted by the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union (“E.U.”). Additionally, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) continues to develop capital requirements as more fully discussed below.  

Regulation Outlook: The IAIS has recently adopted a Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (“ComFrame”) which is focused on the effective group-wide supervision of internationally active insurance groups, such as CNA. As part of ComFrame, the IAIS is developing a global insurance capital standard for insurance groups. While the general parameters of ComFrame have been finalized, many critical areas of the global insurance capital standard are still under consideration. Certain jurisdictional regulatory regimes are subject to revision in response to these global developments. 

There have also been definitive developments with respect to prudential insurance supervision unrelated to the IAIS activities. On September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) and the E.U. announced they had formally signed a covered agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance 

(“U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement”). The 

U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement requires U.S. states to prospectively eliminate the requirement that domestic insurance companies must obtain collateral from E.U. reinsurance companies that are not licensed in their state (alien reinsurers) in order to obtain reserve credit under statutory accounting. In exchange, the E.U. will not impose local presence requirements on U.S. firms operating in the E.U., and effectively must defer to U.S. group capital regulation for these firms. On December 18, 2018, the U.S. Treasury Department, the USTR, and the U.K. announced they formally signed the Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance 

(“U.S.-U.K. Covered Agreement”). This Agreement has similar terms as the 

U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement, and will become effective upon the U.K.’s exit from the E.U. 

Because these covered agreements are not self-executing, U.S. state laws will need to be revised to change reinsurance collateral requirements to conform to the provisions within each of the agreements. In addition, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) is currently developing an approach to group capital regulation as the current U.S. regulatory regime is based on legal entity regulation. Both the reinsurance collateral requirement change and adoption of group capital regulation must be effected by the states within five years from the signing of the Covered Agreements, or states risk federal preemption. CNA will monitor the modification of state laws and regulations in order to comply with the provisions of the Covered Agreements and assess potential effects on its operations and prospects.   

6 

Table of Contents 

Properties: CNA’s principal executive offices are based in Chicago, Illinois. CNA’s subsidiaries maintain office space in various cities throughout the United States and various countries. CNA leases all of its office space. 

DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC.  

Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Diamond Offshore”) provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the world with a fleet of 15 offshore drilling rigs consisting of four drillships and 11 semisubmersible rigs. Diamond Offshore accounted for 6.6%, 7.8% and 10.9% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.  

A floater rig is a type of mobile offshore drilling rig that floats and does not rest on the seafloor. This asset class includes self-propelled drillships and semisubmersible rigs. Semisubmersible rigs are comprised of an upper working and living deck resting on vertical columns connected to lower hull members. Such rigs operate in a “semi-submerged” position, remaining afloat, off bottom, in a position in which the lower hull is approximately 55 feet to 90 feet below the water line and the upper deck protrudes well above the surface. Semisubmersibles hold position while drilling by use of a series of small propulsion units or thrusters that provide dynamic positioning (“DP”) to keep the rig on location, or with anchors tethered to the seabed. Although DP semisubmersibles are self-propelled, such rigs may be moved long distances with the assistance of tug boats. 

Non-DP, or moored, semisubmersibles require tug boats or the use of a heavy lift vessel to move between locations. 

A drillship is an adaptation of a maritime vessel that is designed and constructed to carry out drilling operations by means of a substructure with a moon pool centrally located in the hull. Drillships are typically self-propelled and are positioned over a drillsite through the use of a DP system similar to those used on semisubmersible rigs.  

Fleet Enhancements: During early 2019, Diamond Offshore completed the reactivation of the 

Ocean Endeavor, which is currently on contract in the U.K. Diamond Offshore also completed the reactivation and upgrade of the 

Ocean Onyx in late 2019. As part of the upgrade of the 

Ocean Onyx, Diamond Offshore increased the rig’s lower deck load capability, reduced rig motion response and made other technologically desirable enhancements sought by Diamond Offshore’s customers. Diamond Offshore expects the 

Ocean Onyx to commence operating under a long-term contract in Australia in the second quarter of 2020. In addition, Diamond Offshore added enhanced automation features on two of its drillships, the 

Ocean BlackHawk and 

Ocean BlackHornet, during their 2019 shipyard stays for regulatory surveys. Similar projects for its other two drillships are scheduled to be completed in 2020. 

Diamond Offshore continues to evaluate further rig acquisition and enhancement opportunities as they arise. However, Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance whether, or to what extent, it will continue to make rig acquisitions and enhancements to its fleet.  

Markets: The principal markets for Diamond Offshore’s contract drilling services are: 

   • 

the Gulf of Mexico, including the U.S. and Mexico;   

   • 

South America, principally offshore Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago;   

   • 

Australia and Southeast Asia, including Malaysia, Myanmar and Vietnam;   

   • 

Europe, principally offshore the U.K.;   

   • 

East and West Africa; and   

   • 

the Mediterranean.   

Drilling Contracts: Diamond Offshore’s contracts to provide offshore drilling services vary in their terms and provisions. Diamond Offshore typically obtains its contracts through a competitive bid process, although it is not unusual for Diamond Offshore to be awarded drilling contracts following direct negotiations. Drilling contracts generally provide for a basic dayrate regardless of whether or not drilling results in a productive well. Drilling contracts generally also provide for reductions in rates during periods when the rig is being moved or when drilling operations  

7 

Table of Contents  

are interrupted or restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather conditions or other circumstances. Under dayrate contracts, Diamond Offshore generally pays the operating expenses of the rig, including wages and the cost of incidental supplies. Historically, dayrate contracts have accounted for the majority of Diamond Offshore’s revenues. In addition, from time to time, Diamond Offshore’s dayrate contracts may also provide for the ability to earn an incentive bonus from its customer based upon performance.  

The duration of a dayrate drilling contract is generally tied to the time required to drill a single well or a group of wells, which Diamond Offshore refers to as a 

well-to-well contract, or a fixed period of time, in what Diamond Offshore refers to as a term contract. Diamond Offshore’s drilling contracts may be terminated by the customer in the event the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if drilling operations are suspended for an extended period of time as a result of a breakdown of equipment or, in some cases, due to events beyond the control of either party to the contract. Certain of Diamond Offshore’s contracts also permit the customer to terminate the contract early by giving notice; in most circumstances, this requires the payment of an early termination fee by the customer. The contract term in many instances may also be extended by the customer exercising options for the drilling of additional wells or for an additional length of time, generally subject to mutually agreeable terms and rates at the time of the extension. In periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors may prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers may prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of declining dayrates. Moreover, drilling contractors may accept lower dayrates in a declining market in order to obtain longer-term contracts and add backlog. 

Customers: Diamond Offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. During 2019, 2018 and 2017, Diamond Offshore performed services for 12, 13 and 14 different customers. During 2019, 2018 and 2017, Hess Corporation accounted for 29%, 25% and 16% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues, Occidental (formerly Anadarko) accounted for 21%, 34% and 25% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues and Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. accounted for 20%, 16% and 19% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues. During 2018 and 2017, BP accounted for 11% and 16% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues during 2019, 2018 or 2017. 

As of January 1, 2020, Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog was an aggregate $1.6 billion attributable to ten customers, compared to $2.0 billion as of January 1, 2019. Of its current contracted backlog for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, $0.3 billion, $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion or 43%, 44% and 24% are attributable to Diamond Offshore’s operations in the Gulf of Mexico from three customers.  

Competition: Based on industry data as of the date of this Report, there are approximately 760 mobile drilling rigs in service worldwide, including approximately 240 floater rigs. Despite consolidation in previous years, the offshore contract drilling industry remains highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. Some of Diamond Offshore’s competitors may have greater financial or other resources than it does. 

Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Customers may also consider rig availability and location, a drilling contractor’s operational and safety performance record, and condition and suitability of equipment. Diamond Offshore believes it competes favorably with respect to these factors.  

Diamond Offshore competes on a worldwide basis, but competition may vary significantly by region at any particular time. Competition for offshore rigs generally takes place on a global basis, as these rigs are highly mobile and may be moved, although at a cost that may be substantial, from one region to another. It is characteristic of the offshore drilling industry to move rigs from areas of low utilization and dayrates to areas of greater activity and relatively higher dayrates. The current oversupply of offshore drilling rigs also intensifies price competition.  

Governmental Regulation: Diamond Offshore’s operations are subject to numerous international, foreign, U.S., state and local laws and regulations that relate directly or indirectly to its operations, including regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal and 

clean-up under some circumstances, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, and may include laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use.  

8 

Table of Contents 

Properties: Diamond Offshore owns an office building in Houston, Texas, where its corporate headquarters are located, and offices and other facilities in New Iberia, Louisiana, Aberdeen, Scotland, Macae, Brazil and Ciudad del Carmen, Mexico. Additionally, Diamond Offshore currently leases various office, warehouse and storage facilities in Australia, Brazil, Louisiana, Malaysia, Singapore and the U.K. to support its offshore drilling operations. 

BOARDWALK PIPELINE PARTNERS, LP  

Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (together with its subsidiaries, “Boardwalk Pipelines”) is engaged in the business of natural gas and natural gas liquids and hydrocarbons (herein referred to together as “NGLs”) transportation and storage. Boardwalk Pipelines accounted for 8.7%, 8.7% and 9.6% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.  

A wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp. (“BPHC”) owns, directly and indirectly, the General Partner interest and all of the limited partnership interests of Boardwalk Pipelines.  

Boardwalk Pipelines owns and operates approximately 13,610 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving customers in 13 states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern U.S. through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns and operates approximately 445 miles of NGL pipelines in Louisiana and Texas. In 2019, its pipeline systems transported approximately 2.9 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and approximately 86.6 million barrels (“MMBbls”) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on Boardwalk Pipelines’ natural gas pipeline systems during 2019 was approximately 8.0 billion cubic feet (“Bcf”). Boardwalk Pipelines’ natural gas storage facilities are comprised of 14 underground storage fields located in four states with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 205.0 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipelines’ NGL storage facilities consist of 11 salt dome storage caverns located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 31.8 MMBbls. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns seven salt dome caverns and related brine infrastructure for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations.  

Boardwalk Pipelines’ pipeline and storage systems are described below:  

The Gulf South Pipeline Company, LLC (“Gulf South”), effective January 1, 2020, converted from a limited partnership to a limited liability company. Immediately subsequent to the conversion, Boardwalk Pipelines’ Gulf Crossing Pipeline Company LLC, (“Gulf Crossing”) operating subsidiary was merged into Gulf South. The merged pipeline system runs approximately 7,360 miles along the Gulf Coast in the states of Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The pipeline system has a 

peak-day delivery capacity of 10.5 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 4.9 Bcf per day. Gulf South has ten natural gas storage facilities. The two natural gas storage facilities located in Louisiana and Mississippi have approximately 83.5 Bcf of working gas storage capacity and the eight salt dome natural gas storage caverns in Mississippi have approximately 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.6 Bcf is working gas capacity. Gulf South also owns undeveloped land which is suitable for up to five additional storage caverns. 

The Texas Gas Transmission, LLC (“Texas Gas”) pipeline system runs approximately 5,980 miles and is located in Louisiana, East Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has a 

peak-day delivery capacity of 5.4 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2019 was 3.1 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.3 Bcf of working gas storage capacity. 

Boardwalk Louisiana Midstream, LLC and Boardwalk Petrochemical Pipeline, LLC (collectively “Louisiana Midstream”) provide transportation and storage services for natural gas, NGLs and ethylene, fractionation services for NGLs and brine supply services. These assets provide approximately 48.5 MMBbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 7.6 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure, and approximately 285 miles of pipeline assets. Louisiana Midstream owns and operates the Evangeline Pipeline (“Evangeline”), which is an approximately 175 mile interstate ethylene pipeline that is capable of transporting approximately 4.2 billion pounds of ethylene per year between Texas and Louisiana, where it interconnects with its ethylene distribution system. Throughput for Louisiana Midstream was 86.6 MMBbls for the year ended December 31, 2019.   

9 

Table of Contents 

Boardwalk Texas Intrastate, LLC (“Texas Intrastate”) provides intrastate natural gas transportation services on approximately 255 miles of pipeline located in South Texas. Texas Intrastate is situated to provide access to industrial and liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) export markets, proposed power plants and third-party pipelines for exports to Mexico.  

Boardwalk Pipelines has been engaged in several growth projects. Since 2016, Boardwalk Pipelines has placed into service several growth projects that represent more than $1.6 billion of total capital expenditures and provide more than 3.1 Bcf of natural gas transportation capacity to producers, power plants and an LNG export facility. These projects include Boardwalk Pipelines’ Northern Supply Access, Coastal Bend Header, Sulphur Storage and Pipeline Expansion and two power plant projects, one in Louisiana and one in Texas. Boardwalk Pipelines expects to spend approximately $460 million on its growth projects currently under construction through 2022 that are expected to serve increased demand from natural gas 

end-users such as power generation plants and industrials, as well as liquids demand from petrochemical facilities. Collectively, these projects represent approximately 1.2 Bcf per day of natural gas transportation to 

end-users. These growth projects include two projects that will provide firm transportation services to new power plant customers, one in Mississippi and one in Texas. Boardwalk Pipelines is also progressing with the construction of several NGL growth projects that are expected to provide transportation and storage services and brine supply services to petrochemical and industrial customers in southern Louisiana. All of Boardwalk Pipelines’ growth projects are secured by long-term firm contracts. 

Customers: Boardwalk Pipelines serves a broad mix of customers, including producers of natural gas, and with 

end-use customers, including local distribution companies, exporters of LNG, marketers, electric power generators, industrial users and interstate and intrastate pipelines who, in turn, provide transportation and storage services for 

end-users. These customers are located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the U.S. Boardwalk Pipelines’ delivery market has diversified over time, with more deliveries going to 

end-use customers, whereas, historically its delivery markets were primarily to other pipelines who then delivered to 

end-use customers. As of December 31, 2019, Boardwalk Pipelines had approximately $9.3 billion of projected operating revenues under committed firm transportation agreements. 

Competition: Boardwalk Pipelines competes with numerous other pipelines that provide transportation, storage and other services at many locations along its pipeline systems. Boardwalk Pipelines also competes with pipelines that are attached to natural gas supply sources that are closer to some of its traditional natural gas market areas. In addition, regulators’ continuing efforts to increase competition in the natural gas industry have increased the natural gas transportation options of Boardwalk Pipelines’ traditional customers. For example, as a result of regulators’ policies, capacity segmentation and capacity release have created an active secondary market which increasingly competes with Boardwalk Pipelines’ natural gas pipeline services. Further, natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to Boardwalk Pipelines’ customers, including electricity, coal, fuel oils and alternative fuel sources. 

The principal elements of competition among pipelines are availability of capacity, rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability of service. In many cases, the elements of competition, in particular, flexibility, terms of service and reliability, are key differentiating factors between competitors. This is especially the case with capacity being sold on a longer term basis. Boardwalk Pipelines is focused on finding opportunities to enhance its competitive profile in these areas by increasing the flexibility of its pipeline systems, such as modifying them to allow for 

bi-directional flows, to meet the demands of customers, such as power generators and industrial users, and is continually reviewing its services and terms of service to offer customers enhanced service options. 

Governmental Regulation: The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) regulates Boardwalk Pipelines’ interstate natural gas operating subsidiaries under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (“NGA”) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (“NGPA”). The FERC regulates, among other things, the rates and charges for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce and the extension, enlargement or abandonment of facilities under its jurisdiction. Where required, Boardwalk Pipelines’ natural gas pipeline subsidiaries hold certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC covering certain of their facilities, activities and services. The maximum rates that may be charged by Boardwalk Pipelines’ subsidiaries operating under the FERC’s jurisdiction, for all aspects of the natural gas transportation services they provide, are established through the FERC’s cost-based rate-making process. Key determinants in the FERC’s cost-based rate-making process are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. The maximum rates that may be charged by Boardwalk  

10 

Table of Contents 

Pipelines for storage services on Texas Gas, with the exception of services associated with a portion of the working gas capacity on that system, are also established through the FERC’s cost-based rate-making process. The FERC has authorized Boardwalk Pipelines to charge market-based rates for its firm and interruptible storage services for the majority of its other natural gas storage facilities. None of Boardwalk Pipelines’ FERC-regulated entities currently have an obligation to file a new rate case and Gulf South is prohibited from filing a rate case until May 1, 2023, subject to certain exceptions. Texas Intrastate transports natural gas in intrastate commerce under the rules and regulations established by the Texas Railroad Commission and in interstate commerce that is subject to FERC jurisdiction under Section 311 of the NGPA. The maximum rates for services are established under Section 311 of the NGPA and are generally subject to review every five years by the FERC.  

Boardwalk Pipelines is also regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) through the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (“PHMSA”) under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended (“NGPSA”) and the Hazardous Liquids Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, as amended (“HLPSA”). The NGPSA and HLPSA govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of interstate natural gas and NGL pipeline facilities. Boardwalk Pipelines has authority from PHMSA to operate certain natural gas pipeline assets under issued permits with specific conditions that allow it to operate those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline’s Specified Minimum Yield Strength (“SMYS”). Operating at these pressures allows these pipelines to transport all of the existing natural gas volumes Boardwalk Pipelines has contracted for with its customers. PHMSA retains discretion whether to grant or maintain authority for Boardwalk Pipelines to operate its natural gas pipeline assets at higher pressures and, in the event that PHSMA should elect not to allow Boardwalk Pipelines to operate at these higher pressures, it could affect its ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipeline assets, and Boardwalk Pipelines could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations.  

PHMSA’s regulations also require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain high risk areas, known as high consequence areas (“HCAs”), high-population areas (also known as moderate consequence areas (“MCAs”), as well as Class 3 and Class 4 areas, which are determined by specific population densities near Boardwalk Pipelines’ pipelines), certain drinking water sources and unusually sensitive ecological areas, along Boardwalk Pipelines’ pipelines and take additional safety measures to protect people and property in these areas. Legislation in the past decade has resulted in more stringent mandates for pipeline safety and has charged PHMSA with developing and adopting regulations that impose increased pipeline safety requirements on pipeline operators. In particular, the NGPSA and HLPSA were amended by the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (“2011 Act”) and the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 (“2016 Act”). The 2011 Act increased the penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements by PHMSA for existing pipelines. The 2016 Act extended PHMSA’s statutory mandate through September of 2019 and, among other things, required PHMSA to complete its outstanding mandates under the 2011 Act and develop new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities in 2018. Pursuant to the 2016 Act, in December of 2016, PHMSA published an interim final rule that addressed certain safety issues related to natural gas storage facilities, including wells, wellbore tubing and casing. However, in June of 2017, PHMSA temporarily suspended specified enforcement actions pertaining to provisions of the December 2016 interim final rule, as PHMSA announced it would reconsider the interim final rule, and subsequently 

re-opened the rule to public comment in October of 2017. The rule has yet to be finalized. In October of 2019, PHMSA released its “Enhanced Emergency Order Procedures” final rule, which replaced an interim final rule issued by the agency in

 2016 and empowers PHMSA to respond to imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing. In 2016, PHMSA published a proposed rulemaking that would impose new or more stringent requirements for certain natural gas pipelines including, expanding certain of PHMSA’s current regulatory safety programs for natural gas lines in MCAs that do not qualify as HCAs and requiring maximum allowable operating pressure (“MAOP”) validation through 

re-verification of all historical records for pipelines in service, which may require natural gas pipelines installed before 1970 (previously excluded from certain pressure testing obligations) to be pressure tested. However, PHMSA has since decided to split this proposed rule which has become known as the “gas Mega Rule,” into three separate rulemaking proceedings. The first of these three rulemakings, relating to onshore gas transmission pipelines, was published as a final rule on October 1, 2019, and imposes numerous requirements, including MAOP reconfirmation, the periodic assessment of additional pipeline mileage outside of HCAs (in MCAs as well as Class 3 and Class 4 areas), the reporting of exceedances of MAOP and the consideration of seismicity as a  

11 

Table of Contents 

risk factor in integrity management. Boardwalk Pipelines is currently evaluating the operational and financial impact related to this final rule which will become effective on July 1, 2020. The remaining rulemakings comprising the gas Mega Rule are expected to be issued in 2020 and will include revised pipeline repair criteria as well as more stringent corrosion control requirements. New regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of Boardwalk Pipelines operations, which could cause it to incur increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. Boardwalk Pipelines also expects new pipeline safety legislation to be proposed and finalized in 2020 that will reauthorize PHMSA pipeline safety programs, which under the 2016 Act expired at the end of September 2019.  

The Surface Transportation Board (“STB”) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipelines charges for interstate service on its ethylene pipelines. The Louisiana Public Service Commission (“LPSC”) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipelines charges for intrastate service within the state of Louisiana on its petrochemical and NGL pipelines. The STB and LPSC require that Boardwalk Pipelines’ transportation rates are reasonable and that its practices cannot unreasonably discriminate among its shippers.  

Boardwalk Pipelines’ operations are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment and occupational health and safety. Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of various substances including hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases, discharges and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental regulations also require that Boardwalk Pipelines’ facilities, sites and other properties be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Occupational health and safety regulations establish standards protective of workers, both generally and within the pipeline industry.  

Many states where Boardwalk Pipelines operates also have, or are developing, similar environmental or occupational health and safety legal requirements governing many of the same types of activities and those requirements can be more stringent than those adopted under federal laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these federal, state and local laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of corrective or remedial obligations, the incurrence of capital expenditures, the occurrence of delays, denials or cancellations in permitting or the development or expansion of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining performance of some or all of Boardwalk Pipelines’ operations in the affected areas. Historically, Boardwalk Pipelines’ environmental compliance costs have not had a material adverse effect on its business, but there can be no assurance that future compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect them, or that the current regulatory standards will not become more onerous in the future, resulting in more significant costs to maintain compliance or increased exposure to significant liabilities.  

Properties: Boardwalk Pipelines is headquartered in approximately 103,000 square feet of leased office space located in Houston, Texas. Boardwalk Pipelines also leases approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Owensboro, Kentucky. Boardwalk Pipelines’ operating subsidiaries own their respective pipeline systems in fee. However, substantial portions of these systems are constructed and maintained on property owned by others pursuant to 

rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses or consents.  

12 

Table of Contents  

LOEWS HOTELS HOLDING CORPORATION  

Loews Hotels Holding Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “Loews Hotels & Co”) operates a chain of 26 hotels. 11 of these hotels are owned by Loews Hotels & Co, 10 are owned by joint ventures in which Loews Hotels & Co has equity interests and five are managed for unaffiliated owners. Loews Hotels & Co’s earnings are derived from the operation of its wholly owned hotels, its share of earnings in joint venture hotels and hotel management fees earned from both joint venture and managed hotels. Loews Hotels & Co accounted for 4.6%, 5.4%, and 5.0% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. The hotels are described below.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Note:      

Two owned hotels and many of the joint venture hotels are subject to land leases.     

13 

Table of Contents 

Competition: Competition from other hotels, lodging and conference facilities, and alternative accommodation providers is vigorous in all locations in which Loews Hotels & Co operates. The demand for hotel rooms is seasonal and dependent on general and local economic conditions. Loews Hotels & Co properties also compete with facilities offering similar services in locations other than those in which its hotels are located. Competition among hotels is based primarily on quality of location, facilities, price and service. Because of the competitive nature of the industry, hotels must continually make expenditures for updating, refurnishing and repairs and maintenance in order to remain competitive. 

Recent Developments and Growth Projects:  

   • 

In 2019, Live! by Loews in Arlington, Texas, a 300 guestroom hotel opened. Loews Hotels & Co serves as manager and has a joint venture interest;   

   • 

In 2019, the sale of Loews San Francisco Hotel in San Francisco, California, was completed. Loews Hotel & Co continues to serve as manager, which it is expected to do through March of 2020;   

   • 

In 2019, Universal’s Endless Summer Resort – Surfside Inn and Suites at Universal Orlando, a 750 guestroom hotel opened, and in 2020 Universal’s Endless Summer Resort – Dockside Inn and Suites at Universal Orlando, is expected to open with approximately 2,050 additional guestrooms. As with Loews Hotels & Co’s other properties at Universal Orlando, Loews Hotels & Co serves as manager and has a joint venture interest in these hotels;   

   • 

In 2020, Loews Kansas City Hotel in Kansas City, Missouri, an approximately 800 guestroom hotel in which Loews Hotels & Co will serve as manager and has a majority equity interest, is expected to open;   

   • 

In 2020, Live! by Loews in St. Louis, Missouri, an approximately 216 guestroom hotel in which Loews Hotels & Co will serve as manager and has a joint venture interest, is expected to open; and   

   • 

In 2022, Loews Coral Gables Hotel in Coral Gables, Florida, an approximately 242 guestroom hotel in which Loews Hotels & Co will serve as manager and will have a joint venture interest upon completion, is expected to be completed.   

ALTIUM PACKAGING LLC  

On January 28, 2020, Consolidated Container Company LLC announced that it has rebranded the company as Altium Packaging LLC (together with its subsidiaries, “Altium Packaging”). In addition, Tri State Distribution Inc., a pharmaceutical packaging manufacturer that Altium Packaging acquired in June of 2019, has been rebranded as Altium Healthcare Inc. Altium Packaging is a packaging solutions provider and manufacturer in North America. The business specializes in customized 

mid- and 

short-run  packaging solutions, serving a diverse customer base in the pharmaceutical, dairy, household chemicals, food/nutraceuticals, industrial/specialty chemicals, water and beverage/juice segments. Altium Packaging develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of extrusion blow-molded and injection molded plastic containers for target markets. In addition, Altium Packaging manufactures commodity and differentiated plastic resins from recycled plastic materials for a variety of end markets. Altium Packaging accounted for 6.2%, 6.2% and 3.6% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. 

Customers: Altium Packaging sells its products to approximately 9,400 customers throughout North America. Altium Packaging’s largest customers for rigid packaging include a diverse customer base of many nationally recognized branded food, beverage, consumer products and pharmaceutical companies. The recycled resins customer base is primarily domestic with customers in several end markets such as packaging, automotive, industrial and consumer goods. Dean Foods Company represented approximately 11% of Altium Packaging’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 11% of its net sales, since the date of acquisition, for the year ended December 31, 2017. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Altium Packaging’s net sales during 2019, 2018 or 2017.  

14 

Table of Contents 

Competition: Altium Packaging faces competition throughout its product lines from a number of regional and local manufacturers, including smaller firms operating in similar geographic regions and well-established businesses operating nationally. Altium Packaging believes that its long term success is largely dependent on its ability to continue to address logistically complex and technically demanding customer needs, maintain strong relationships with current customers, attract new customers, develop product innovations, provide superior service to its customers and reduce its cost structure. 

Properties: Altium Packaging leases its corporate offices in Atlanta, Georgia and Omaha, Nebraska. It operates 59 manufacturing facilities located throughout the United States and seven facilities located in Canada, of which 59 are leased and seven are owned. In addition, Altium Packaging utilizes 14 warehouse facilities, of which 12 are leased and two are owned. 

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS  

Including our operating subsidiaries as described below, we employed approximately 18,605 persons at December 31, 2019. CNA employed approximately 5,900 persons. Diamond Offshore employed approximately 2,500 persons, including international crew personnel furnished through independent labor contractors. Boardwalk Pipelines employed approximately 1,235 persons, approximately 100 of whom are union members covered under collective bargaining agreements. Loews Hotels & Co employed approximately 5,700 persons, approximately 1,840 of whom are union members covered under collective bargaining agreements. Altium Packaging employed approximately 3,100 persons, approximately 300 of whom are covered under collective bargaining agreements. We and our subsidiaries have satisfactory labor relations.  

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Andrew H. Tisch and James S. Tisch are brothers and are cousins of Jonathan M. Tisch. None of our other executive officers or directors is related to any other.  

All of our executive officers, except for Marc A. Alpert, have served in their current roles at the Company for at least the past five years. Prior to assuming his current role at the Company in July of 2016, Mr. Alpert served as a partner and head of the Public Companies Practice Group at the law firm of Chadbourne & Parke LLP.  

Officers are elected annually and hold office until their successors are elected and qualified, and are subject to removal by the Board of Directors.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

Our website address is www.loews.com. We make available, free of charge, through the website our Annual Report on Form 

10-K,  Quarterly Reports on Form 

10-Q, Current Reports on Form 

8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of  

15 

Table of Contents 

our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter and Nominating and Governance Committee charter are also available on our website. Information on or accessible through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report. This Annual Report on Form 

10-K and other SEC filings made by the Company are also accessible through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.