Part I

Item 1.Business

Eli Lilly and Company (the “company” or “registrant” or "Lilly") was incorporated in 1901 in Indiana to succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly. We discover, develop, manufacture, and market products in a single business segment—human pharmaceutical products.

Our purpose is to unite caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people around the world. Most of the products we sell today were discovered or developed by our own scientists, and our success depends to a great extent on our ability to continue to discover or acquire, develop, and bring to market innovative new medicines.

In September 2018 Elanco Animal Health Incorporated (Elanco), an animal health business previously wholly owned by the company, completed an initial public offering of its common stock, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange, and in March 2019, we completed the disposition of our remaining ownership of Elanco common stock. For more information on the exchange offer, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Executive Overview”.

We manufacture and distribute our products through facilities in the United States (U.S.), Puerto Rico, and 8 other countries. Our products are sold in approximately 120 countries.

Products

Our products include:

Diabetes and other endocrinology products, including:

•Baqsimi® (glucagon), a nasal powder formulation for the treatment of severe hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes (approved in the U.S. and Europe in 2019)[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Forteo®, for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture and for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and postmenopausal women[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Humatrope®, for the treatment of human growth hormone deficiency and certain pediatric growth conditions[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Jardiance®, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease 

•Trajenta®, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes

•Trulicity®, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes 

Immunology products, including:

•Olumiant®, for the treatment of adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis (approved in Europe and Japan in 2017, and in the U.S. in 2018) 

•Taltz®, for the treatment of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, active psoriatic arthritis (approved in the U.S. in 2017, and in Europe in 2018), and ankylosing spondylitis (approved in the U.S. in 2019)

Neuroscience products, including:

•Cymbalta®, for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, fibromyalgia, and chronic musculoskeletal pain due to chronic low back pain or chronic pain due to osteoarthritis

5

•Emgality®, a once-monthly subcutaneously injected calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antibody for migraine prevention (approved in the U.S. and Europe in 2018) and the treatment of episodic cluster headache (approved in the U.S. in 2019)

•Reyvow™, an oral medicine for the acute treatment of migraine (launched in the U.S. in 2020)

•Strattera®, for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder 

•Zyprexa®, for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, and bipolar maintenance

Oncology products, including:

•Alimta®, for the first-line treatment, in combination with another agent, of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for patients with non-squamous cell histology; for the second-line treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC; as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of advanced non-squamous NSCLC in patients whose disease has not progressed immediately following chemotherapy treatment; and in combination with another agent, for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma

•Cyramza®, for use as a single agent or in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric cancer or gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma; in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of metastatic NSCLC; in combination with another agent as a second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer; as a single agent as a second-line treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (approved in the U.S. in 2019); and in combination with another agent as a first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic NSCLC with activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations (approved in Europe in 2020)

•Erbitux®, indicated both as a single agent and in combination with another chemotherapy agent for the treatment of certain types of colorectal cancers; and as a single agent, in combination with chemotherapy, or in combination with radiation therapy for the treatment of certain types of head and neck cancers

•Verzenio®, for use as a single agent and in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of a certain type of metastatic breast cancer (approved in the U.S. in 2017 and in Europe and Japan in 2018)

Other products, including:

•Cialis®, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and benign prostatic hyperplasia

Marketing

We sell most of our products worldwide. We adapt our marketing methods and product emphasis in various countries to meet local customer needs.

U.S.

In the U.S., most of our products are distributed through wholesalers that serve pharmacies, physicians and other health care professionals, and hospitals. In 2019, 2018, and 2017, three wholesale distributors in the U.S. - McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and Cardinal Health, Inc. - each accounted for between 14 percent and 21 percent of our consolidated total revenue. No other distributor accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated total revenue in any of those years.

We promote our major products in the U.S. through sales representatives who call upon physicians and other health care professionals. We also promote to healthcare providers in medical journals and on-line health care channels, distribute literature and samples of certain products to physicians, and exhibit at medical meetings. In addition, we advertise certain products directly to consumers in the U.S., and we maintain websites with information about our major products. We supplement our employee sales force with contract sales organizations to leverage our own resources.

We maintain special business groups to service wholesalers, pharmacy benefit managers, managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations, government and long-term care institutions, hospitals, and certain retail pharmacies. We enter into arrangements with these organizations providing for discounts or rebates on our products.

6

Outside the U.S.

Outside the U.S., we promote our products to healthcare providers primarily through sales representatives and on-line health care channels. While the products marketed vary from country to country, diabetes and other endocrinology products constitute the largest single group in consolidated revenue. Distribution patterns vary from country to country. In most countries in which we operate, we maintain our own sales organizations, but in some smaller countries we market our products through independent distributors.

Marketing Collaborations

Certain of our products are marketed in arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies, including the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For additional information, see Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4, Collaborations and Other Arrangements."

Competition

Our products compete globally with products of many other companies in highly competitive markets. 

Important competitive factors include effectiveness, safety, and ease of use; price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness; marketing effectiveness; and research and development of new products, processes, and uses. Most new products that we introduce must compete with other branded or generic products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. If competitors introduce new products or delivery systems with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to decreased sales, progressive price reductions, or both. 

We believe our long-term competitive success depends upon discovering and developing (either alone or in collaboration with others) or acquiring innovative, cost-effective products that provide improved outcomes and deliver value to payers, and continuously improving the productivity of our operations in a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that our efforts will result in commercially successful products, and it is possible that our products will be, or become, uncompetitive from time to time as a result of products developed by our competitors.

Generic Pharmaceuticals

One of the biggest competitive challenges we face is from generic pharmaceuticals. In the U.S. and Europe, the regulatory approval process for pharmaceuticals (other than biological products (biologics)) exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. Therefore, generic manufacturers generally invest far less than we do in research and development and can price their products much lower than our branded products. Accordingly, when a branded non-biologic pharmaceutical loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. Public and private payers typically encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. Where substitution is mandatory, it must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. In many countries outside the U.S., intellectual property protection is weak, and we must compete with generic or counterfeit versions of our products. 

Biosimilars

Several of our current products, including Cyramza, Emgality, Erbitux, Taltz, and Trulicity and many of the new molecular entities (NMEs) in our research pipeline are biologics. Competition for Lilly’s biologics may be affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as biosimilars. A biosimilar is a subsequent version of an approved innovator biologic that, due to its functional and structural similarity to the innovator biologic, is approved based on an abbreviated data package that relies in part on the full testing required of the innovator biologic. Globally, most governments have developed regulatory pathways to approve biosimilars as alternatives to innovator-developed biologics, but the patent and regulatory exclusivity for the existing innovator biologic must expire in a given market before biosimilars may enter that market. The extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for the innovator biologic in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for 

7

non-biologic products, is not yet entirely clear, and will depend on a number of regulatory and marketplace factors that are still developing.

Biosimilars may present both competitive challenges and opportunities. For example, a competitor company has developed a version of insulin lispro which competes with our product Humalog. On the other hand, with our partner Boehringer Ingelheim, we developed Basaglar, a new insulin glargine product, which has the same amino acid sequence as a product currently marketed by a competitor and has launched as a follow-on biologic in the U.S., and as a biosimilar in Europe and Japan. In March 2020, the U.S. regulatory status of all of our insulin products will transition to become regulated as “biologics” rather than “drugs.” Based on recent U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) draft guidance, this change may lower the requirements for competitor biosimilar products to enter the market, some of which could be designated as interchangeable and therefore substituted for our insulin products at U.S. pharmacies.

U.S. Private Sector Dynamics

In the U.S. private sector, consolidation and integration among healthcare providers is also a major factor in the competitive marketplace for pharmaceuticals. Health plans and pharmacy benefit managers have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance. For example, in 2018 CVS Health, a large pharmacy benefit manager and pharmacy chain, acquired Aetna, a large national insurer, and Cigna Corporation acquired Express Scripts in a similar transaction. More recently, in December 2019, Express Scripts signed a three-year partnership agreement with another pharmacy benefit manager, Prime Therapeutics.

Payers typically maintain formularies which specify coverage (the conditions under which drugs are included on a plan's formulary) and reimbursement (the associated out-of-pocket cost to the consumer). Formulary placement can lead to reduced usage of a drug for the relevant patient population due to coverage restrictions, such as prior authorizations and formulary exclusions, or due to reimbursement limitations which result in higher consumer out-of-pocket cost, such as non-preferred co-pay tiers, increased co-insurance levels, and higher deductibles. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete for formulary placement not only on the basis of product attributes such as efficacy, safety profile, or patient ease of use, but also by providing rebates. Value-based agreements, where pricing is based on achievement, or not, of specified outcomes, are another tool which may be utilized between payers and pharmaceutical companies as formulary placement and pricing are negotiated. Price is an increasingly important factor in formulary decisions, particularly in treatment areas in which the payer has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. These downward pricing pressures are expected to continue to negatively affect our future consolidated results of operations. 

Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights

Overview

Intellectual property protection is critical to our ability to successfully commercialize our life sciences innovations and invest in the search for new medicines. We own, have applied for, or are licensed under, a large number of patents in the U.S. and many other countries relating to products, product uses, formulations, and manufacturing processes. In addition, as discussed below, for some products we have effective intellectual property protection in the form of data protection under pharmaceutical regulatory laws.

The patent protection anticipated to be of most relevance to pharmaceuticals is provided by national patents claiming the active ingredient (the compound patent), particularly those in major markets such as the U.S., various European countries, and Japan. These patents may be issued based upon the filing of international patent applications, usually filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). Patent applications covering compounds are generally filed during the Discovery Phase of the drug discovery process, which is described in the “Research and Development” section below. In general, national patents in each relevant country are available for a period of 20 years from the filing date of the PCT application, which is often years prior to the launch of a commercial product. Further patent term adjustments and restorations may extend the original patent term:

•Patent term adjustment is a statutory right available to all U.S. patent applicants to provide relief in the event that a patent grant is delayed during examination by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).

•Patent term restoration is a statutory right provided to U.S. patent holders that claim inventions subject to review by the FDA. To make up for a portion of the time invested in clinical trials and the FDA review 

8

process, a single patent for a pharmaceutical product may be eligible for patent term restoration. Patent term restoration is limited by a formula and cannot be calculated until product approval due to uncertainty about the duration of clinical trials and the time it takes the FDA to review an application. There is a five-year cap on any restoration, and no patent's expiration date may be extended beyond 14 years from FDA approval. Some countries outside the U.S. also offer forms of patent term restoration. For example, Supplementary Protection Certificates are available to extend the life of a European patent up to an additional five years (subject to a 15-year cap from European Medicines Agency (EMA) approval). Similarly, in Japan, South Korea, and Australia, patent terms can be extended up to five years, depending on the length of regulatory review and other factors.

Loss of effective patent protection for pharmaceuticals, especially for non-biologic products, typically results in the loss of effective market exclusivity for the product, which often results in severe and rapid decline in revenues for the product. However, in some cases the innovator company may be protected from approval of generic, biosimilar, or other follow-on versions of a new medicine beyond the expiration of the compound patent through manufacturing trade secrets, later-expiring patents on manufacturing processes, methods of use or formulations, or data protection that may be available under pharmaceutical regulatory laws. Changes to the laws and regulations governing these protections could result in earlier loss of effective market exclusivity. The primary forms of data protection are as follows:

•Regulatory authorities in major markets generally grant data package protection for a period of years following new drug approvals in recognition of the substantial investment required to complete clinical trials. Data package protection prohibits other manufacturers from submitting regulatory applications for marketing approval based on the innovator company’s regulatory submission data for the drug. The base period of data package protection depends on the country. For example, the period is generally five years in the U.S. (12 years for new biologics as described below), effectively 10 years in Europe, and eight years in Japan. The period begins on the date of product approval and runs concurrently with the patent term for any relevant patent.

•Under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (the BPCI Act), the FDA has the authority to approve biosimilars. A competitor seeking approval of a biosimilar must file an application to show its molecule is highly similar to an approved innovator biologic and include a certain amount of safety and efficacy data that the FDA will consider on a case-by-case basis. Under the data protection provisions of this law, the FDA cannot approve a biosimilar application until 12 years after initial marketing approval of the innovator biologic, subject to certain conditions. The BPCI Act is part of the Affordable Care Act, the constitutionality of which is currently being litigated. 

•In the U.S., the FDA has the authority to grant additional data protection for approved drugs where the sponsor conducts specified testing in pediatric or adolescent populations within a specified time period. If granted, this “pediatric exclusivity” provides an additional six months of exclusivity, which is added to the term of data protection as well as to the term of any relevant patents, to the extent these protections have not already expired. While the term of the pediatric exclusivity attaches to the term of any relevant patent, pediatric exclusivity is a regulatory exclusivity, a bar to generic approval, not a patent right.

•Under the U.S. orphan drug law, a specific use of a drug or biologic can receive "orphan" designation if it is intended to treat a disease or condition affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the U.S., or affecting more than 200,000 people but not reasonably expected to recover its development and marketing costs through U.S. sales. Among other benefits, orphan designation entitles the particular use of the drug to seven years of market exclusivity, meaning that the FDA cannot (with limited exceptions) approve another marketing application for the same drug for the same indication until expiration of the seven-year period. Unlike pediatric exclusivity, the orphan exclusivity period is independent of and runs in parallel with any applicable patents.

Outside the major markets, the adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property protection for pharmaceuticals varies widely, and in a number of these markets we are unable to patent our products or to enforce the patents we receive for our products. Under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Agreement (TRIPs) administered by the World Trade Organization, more than 140 countries have agreed to provide non-discriminatory protection for most pharmaceutical inventions and to assure that adequate and effective rights are available to patent owners. Certain developing countries limit protection for biopharmaceutical products under their interpretation of “flexibilities” allowed under the agreement. Thus, some types of patents, such as those on new uses of compounds or new forms of molecules, are not available in certain developing countries. Further, many developing countries, and some developed countries, do not provide effective data package protection even though it is specified in TRIPs. 

9

Our Intellectual Property Portfolio

We consider intellectual property protection for certain products, processes, uses, and formulations—particularly with respect to those products discussed below—to be important to our operations. In addition to the data protection and patents identified below, we may hold patents on manufacturing processes, formulations, devices, or uses that extend exclusivity beyond the dates shown below.

The most relevant U.S. patent protection or data protection and associated expiry dates for our top-selling or recently launched patent-protected marketed products are as follows:

•Alimta is protected by a vitamin regimen patent (2021) plus pediatric exclusivity (May 2022).

•Baqsimi is protected by data protection (July 2022).

•Cyramza is protected by a compound patent and biologics data protection (2026).

•Emgality is protected by a compound patent (2033).

•Jardiance, and the related combination products Glyxambi and Synjardy, are protected by a compound patent (2025, not including possible patent extension). 

•Olumiant is protected by a compound patent (2030, not including possible patent extension). 

•Reyvow is protected by a compound patent (2025, not including possible patent extension).

•Taltz is protected by a compound patent (2026, not including possible patent extension) and by biologics data protection (2028).

•Trajenta and Jentadueto are protected by a compound patent (2023, not including possible patent extension).

•Trulicity is protected by a compound patent (2027).

•Verzenio is protected by a compound patent (2029, not including possible patent extension).

Outside the U.S., important patent protection or data protection includes: 

•Alimta is protected by a vitamin regimen patent in major European countries (June 2021) and by patents covering use to treat cancer concomitantly with vitamins in Japan (June 2021).

•Cyramza is protected by a compound patent in major European countries (2028) and Japan (2026).

•Emgality in is protected by a compound patent in major European countries (2033) and Japan (2031, not including possible patent extension).

•Olumiant is protected by a compound patent in major European countries (2029, not including possible patent extension) and Japan (2033).

•Taltz is protected by a compound patent in major European countries (2031) and Japan (2030).

•Trulicity is protected by a compound in major European countries and Japan (2029).

•Verzenio is protected by a compound in major European countries and Japan (2029).

Baqsimi has been submitted for regulatory review in Japan, where it is expected to be protected by data protection upon approval (6 years).

Flortaucipir has been submitted for regulatory review in the U.S. for use as a positron emission tomography (PET) imaging agent and is protected by a compound patent (2029, not including possible patent extension).

Selpercatinib has been submitted for regulatory review in the U.S. for the treatment of cancers in certain patients and is protected by a U.S. compound patent (2037, not including possible patent extension).

Tanezumab has been submitted for regulatory review in the U.S. for the treatment of osteoarthritis pain and is expected to be protected by data protection upon approval (12 years).

Worldwide, we sell all of our major products under trademarks for names and unique product appearance (e.g., the appearance of our Trulicity autoinjector) which we consider in the aggregate to be important to our operations. Trademark protection varies throughout the world, with protection continuing in some countries as long as the mark is used, and in other countries as long as it is registered. Registrations are normally for fixed but renewable terms. Trademark protection often extends beyond the patent and data protection for a product. 

10

Patent Licenses

Most of our major products are not subject to significant license agreements. For information on our license and collaboration agreement with Incyte Corporation related to Olumiant, see Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 4, Collaborations." 

Patent Challenges 

In the U.S., the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, authorizes the FDA to approve generic versions of innovative pharmaceuticals (other than biologics) when the generic manufacturer has not conducted safety and efficacy studies but files an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA). In an ANDA, the generic manufacturer must demonstrate only “bioequivalence” between the generic version and the New Drug Application (NDA)-approved drug—not safety and efficacy. Establishing bioequivalence is generally straightforward and inexpensive for the generic company.

Absent a patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an ANDA until after certain of the innovator’s patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an ANDA alleging that one or more or all of the patents listed in the innovator’s NDA are invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a “Paragraph IV certification.” If the innovator responds by filing suit against the generic manufacturer, the FDA is then prohibited from approving the generic company’s application for a 30-month period (which can be shortened or extended by the trial court judge hearing the patent challenge). If one or more of the NDA-listed patents are challenged, the first filer(s) of a Paragraph IV certification may be entitled to a 180-day period of market exclusivity over all other generic manufacturers.

Generic manufacturers use Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge patents on innovative pharmaceuticals. In addition, generic companies have shown willingness to launch “at risk,” i.e., after receiving ANDA approval but before final resolution of their patent challenge. We are currently in Hatch-Waxman litigation involving Alimta with five generic manufacturers. For more information on Hatch-Waxman litigation involving the company, see Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16, Contingencies” and Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."

Under the BPCI Act, the FDA cannot approve a biosimilar application until data protection expires, 12 years after initial marketing approval of the innovator biologic. However, the BPCI Act does provide a mechanism for a competitor to challenge the validity of an innovator’s patents as early as four years after initial marketing approval of the innovator biologic. The patent litigation scheme under the BPCI Act is complex and courts have held that biosimilar applicants are not required to engage in it. Patent holders still have the right to bring suit under normal patent law procedures if a biosimilar applicant attempts to commercialize a product prior to patent expiration.

In addition, there is a procedure in U.S. patent law known as inter partes review (IPR), which allows any member of the public to file a petition with the USPTO seeking the review of any issued U.S. patent for validity. IPRs are conducted before Administrative Patent Judges in the USPTO using a lower standard of proof than used in federal district court. In addition, the challenged patents are not accorded the presumption of validity as they are in federal district court. Generic drug companies and even some investment firms have engaged in the IPR process in attempts to invalidate our patents. 

Outside the U.S., the legal doctrines and processes by which pharmaceutical patents can be challenged vary widely. In recent years, we have experienced an increase in patent challenges from generic manufacturers in many countries outside the U.S. For more information on administrative challenges and litigation involving our Alimta patents in Europe and Japan, see Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16, Contingencies.” 

Government Regulation of Our Operations

Our operations are regulated extensively by numerous national, state, and local agencies. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing development, and regulatory review necessary for governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major markets. We conduct extensive post-marketing surveillance of the safety of the products we sell. In addition, our operations are subject to complex federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations concerning the environment, occupational health and safety, and privacy. Compliance with the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products will continue to require substantial effort, expense, and capital investment.

11

Of particular importance to our business is the FDA in the U.S. Pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA has jurisdiction over all of our products and devices in the U.S. and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, quality control, distribution, labeling, marketing, advertising, dissemination of information, and post-marketing surveillance of those products. 

The FDA extensively regulates all aspects of manufacturing quality for pharmaceuticals under its current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) regulations. Outside the U.S., our products and operations are subject to similar regulatory requirements, notably by the EMA in Europe and the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan. Specific regulatory requirements vary from country to country. We make substantial investments of capital and operating expenses to implement comprehensive, company-wide quality systems in our manufacturing, product development, and process development operations in an effort to ensure sustained compliance with cGMP and similar regulations. However, in the event we fail to adhere to these requirements in the future, we could be subject to interruptions in production, fines and penalties, and delays in new product approvals. Certain of our products are manufactured by third parties, and their failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect us through failure to supply product to us or delays in new product approvals. 

The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to various other U.S. federal and state laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the False Claims Act and state laws governing kickbacks, false claims, unfair trade practices, and consumer protection. These laws are administered by, among others, the Department of Justice (DOJ), the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Personnel Management, and state attorneys general. Over the past several years, state and federal governments have increased their oversight, enforcement activities, and intra-agency coordination with respect to pharmaceutical companies. Several claims brought by these agencies against us and other companies under these and other laws have resulted in corporate criminal sanctions and very substantial civil settlements. 

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) prohibits certain individuals and entities, including U.S. publicly traded companies, from promising, offering, or giving anything of value to foreign officials with the corrupt intent of influencing the foreign official for the purpose of helping the company obtain or retain business or gain any improper advantage. The FCPA also imposes specific recordkeeping and internal controls requirements on U.S. publicly traded companies. As noted above, outside the U.S., our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with foreign officials. Additionally, in many countries outside the U.S., the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by the government and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our interactions with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the FCPA. 

In addition to the U.S. application and enforcement of the FCPA, the various jurisdictions in which we operate and supply our products have laws and regulations aimed at preventing and penalizing corrupt and anticompetitive behavior. In recent years, several jurisdictions, including China, Brazil, and the United Kingdom (U.K.), have enhanced their laws and regulations in this area, increased their enforcement activities, and/or increased the level of cross-border coordination and information sharing.

We are and could in the future become subject to administrative and legal proceedings and actions, which could include claims for civil penalties (including treble damages under the False Claims Act), criminal sanctions, and administrative remedies, including exclusion from U.S. federal and other health care programs. It is possible that an adverse outcome in future actions could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access 

In the U.S., we are required to provide rebates to the federal government and respective state governments on their purchases of our pharmaceuticals under state Medicaid and Medicaid Managed Care programs (minimum of 23.1 percent plus adjustments for price increases over time) and rebates to private payers who cover patients in certain types of health care facilities that serve low-income and uninsured patients (known as 340B facilities). No rebates are required at this time in the Medicare Part B (physician and hospital outpatient) program where reimbursement is set on an "average selling price plus 4.3 percent" formula. Additionally, an annual fee is imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers and importers that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. Since 2019, the Bipartisan Budget Act has required manufacturers of brand-name drugs, biologics, and biosimilars to provide a discount of 70 percent of the cost of branded prescription drugs for Medicare Part D participants who are in the “doughnut hole” (the coverage gap in Medicare prescription drug coverage), up from the previous 50-percent discount.

12

Rebates are also negotiated in the private sector. We give rebates to private payers who provide prescription drug benefits to seniors covered by Medicare and to private payers who provide prescription drug benefits to their customers. These rebates are affected by the introduction of competitive products and generics in the same class. 

In 2019, the White House signed into law targeted amendments to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program statute, as well as the Fair and Accurate Medicaid Pricing Act, which was part of the Continuing Appropriations Act. We do not believe either will have a material impact to our business. Several states have passed importation legislation, including Colorado, Florida, Maine, and Vermont. Specifically, the state of Florida is working with the Administration to implement an importation program from Canada as early as 2020. We are currently reviewing the state legislation, as well as corresponding proposed federal rulemaking and guidance recently published by the Department of Health and Human Services and the FDA, the impact of which is uncertain at this time.

In most international markets, we operate in an environment of government-mandated cost-containment programs, which may include price controls, international reference pricing (to other countries’ prices), discounts and rebates, therapeutic reference pricing (to other, often generic, pharmaceutical choices), restrictions on physician prescription levels, and mandatory generic substitution.

Globally, public and private payers are increasingly restricting access to pharmaceuticals based on assessments of comparative effectiveness and value, including through the establishment of formal health technology assessment processes. In addition, third party organizations, including professional associations, academic institutions, and non-profit entities associated with payers, are conducting and publishing comparative effectiveness and cost/benefit analyses on medicines, the impact of which are uncertain at this time.

We cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by these or other potential future legislative, regulatory, or payer developments. However, in general we expect that state, federal, and international legislative and regulatory developments could have further negative effects on pricing and reimbursement for our products.

Research and Development

Our commitment to research and development dates back more than 140 years. We invest heavily in research and development because we believe it is critical to our long-term competitiveness. At the end of 2019, we employed approximately 7,810 people in pharmaceutical research and development activities, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees, and highly skilled technical personnel. 

Our internal pharmaceutical research focuses primarily on the areas of oncology, diabetes, neurodegeneration, immunology, and pain. We believe that we have a strong biotechnology research program, with more than half of our clinical-stage pipeline currently consisting of biologics. In addition to discovering and developing NMEs, we seek to expand the value of existing products through new uses, formulations, and therapeutic approaches that provide additional value to patients.

To supplement our internal efforts, we collaborate with others, including academic institutions and research-based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We use the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools, and other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of our pharmaceutical products. We actively invest in external research and technologies that we believe complement and strengthen our own efforts. These investments can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements, co-promotion arrangements, joint ventures, and acquisitions.

13

Pharmaceutical development is time-consuming, expensive, and risky. On average, only one out of many thousands of molecules discovered by researchers ultimately becomes an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval can take over a decade. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage drug candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval or achieve commercial success. The rate of innovation cycles leading to medical improvements over initial inventions is accelerating, which has increased the risk that we opt not to develop a late-stage asset or that new products fail to achieve commercial success due to technical obsolescence - displacement by follow-on competitor products - before the period of exclusivity has ended. After approval and launch of a product, we expend considerable resources on post-marketing surveillance and additional clinical studies to collect data and understand the benefits and potential risks of medicines as they are used as therapeutics. Consistent with their purpose, these studies have the potential to identify information about problems with product safety or efficacy that result in product withdrawal. The following describes in more detail the research and development process for pharmaceutical products:

Phases of New Drug Development

•Discovery Phase

The earliest phase of new drug research and development, the discovery phase, can take many years. Scientists identify, design, and synthesize promising molecules, screening tens of thousands of molecules for their effect on biological targets that appear to play an important role in one or more diseases. Targets can be part of the body, such as a protein, receptor, or gene; or foreign, such as a virus or bacteria. Some targets have been proven to affect disease processes, but often the target is unproven and may later prove to be irrelevant to the disease or to yield insufficient clinical benefit. Molecules that have the desired effect on the target and meet other design criteria become candidate molecules and move to the next phase of development. The probability of any one candidate molecule becoming a commercial product is extremely low.

•Early Development Phase

The early development phase involves refining candidate molecules, understanding how to manufacture them efficiently, and completing initial testing for safety and efficacy. Safety testing is done first in laboratory tests and animals, as necessary, to identify toxicity and other potential safety issues that would preclude use in humans. In general, the first human tests (often referred to as Phase I) are conducted in small groups of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety and find the potential dosing range. After a safe dose range has been established, the drug is typically administered to small populations of patients (Phase II) to look for initial signs of efficacy in treating the targeted disease, or biomarkers of the disease, and to continue to assess safety. In parallel, scientists work to identify safe, effective, and economical manufacturing processes. Long-term animal studies continue to test for potential safety issues. Of the molecules that enter the early development phase, approximately 10 percent move on to the product phase. The early development phase can take several years to complete.

•Product Phase

Product phase (Phase III) molecules have met initial safety requirements and, typically, shown initial evidence of efficacy. As a result, these molecules generally have a higher likelihood of success. The molecules are tested in much larger patient populations to demonstrate efficacy to a predetermined level of statistical significance and to continue to develop the safety profile. These trials are generally global in nature and are designed to generate the data necessary to submit the molecule to regulatory agencies for marketing approval. The potential new drug is generally compared with existing competitive therapies, placebo, or both. The resulting data is compiled and may be submitted to regulatory agencies around the world. Phase III testing varies by disease state, but can often last from three to four years.

•Submission Phase

Once a molecule is submitted to regulatory agencies, the time to final marketing approval can vary from several months to several years, depending on variables such as the disease state, the strength and complexity of the data presented, the novelty of the target or compound, and the time required for the agency(ies) to evaluate the submission. There is no guarantee that a potential medicine will receive marketing approval, or that decisions on marketing approvals or indications will be consistent across geographic areas.

14

We believe our investments in research, both internally and in collaboration with others, have been rewarded by the large number of new molecules and new indications for existing molecules that we have in all stages of development. We currently have approximately 45 drug candidates across all stages of human testing and a larger number of projects in preclinical development. Among our new investigational molecules currently in the product phase of development or awaiting regulatory approval or launch are potential therapies for various cancers; Alzheimer’s disease; pain; migraine; cluster headache; diabetes; obesity; and autoimmune diseases, including alopecia areata, systemic lupus erythematosus, psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, Crohn's disease, and ulcerative colitis. We are studying many other drug candidates in the earlier stages of development in our chosen priority areas. We are also developing new uses, formulations, or delivery methods for many of these molecules as well as several currently marketed products. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Late-Stage Pipeline," for more information on certain of our product candidates.

Raw Materials and Product Supply

Most of the principal materials we use in our manufacturing operations are available from more than one source. However, we obtain certain raw or intermediate materials primarily from only one source. We generally seek to maintain sufficient inventory to supply the market until an alternative source of supply could be implemented, in the event one of these suppliers was unable to provide the materials or product. However, in the event of an extended failure of a supplier, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in supply until we established new sources or, in some cases, implemented alternative processes.

The majority of our revenue comes from products produced in our own facilities. Our principal active ingredient manufacturing occurs at sites we own in the U.S., Ireland, and Puerto Rico. Finishing operations, including formulation, filling, assembling, delivery device manufacturing, and packaging, take place at a number of sites throughout the world. We utilize third parties for certain active ingredient manufacturing and finishing operations.

We manage our supply chain (including our own facilities, contracted arrangements, and inventory) in a way that is intended to allow us to meet all expected product demand while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity to improve efficiency and respond to changes in supply and demand. To maintain a stable supply of our products, we use a variety of techniques including comprehensive quality systems, inventory management, and back-up sites.

However, pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated, and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a very lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures, process modifications, and regulatory approvals. Accordingly, if we were to experience unplanned plant shutdowns at one of our own facilities, significant failure of a contract supplier, or significant unanticipated increases in demand, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded.

Quality Assurance

Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, distribution, and dissemination of information about our medicines. 

Quality of production processes involves strict control of ingredients, equipment, facilities, manufacturing methods, packaging materials, and labeling. We perform tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product in an effort to assure that the product meets all regulatory requirements and Lilly internal standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, testing in animals, or a combination thereof. Additional assurance of quality is provided by corporate quality-assurance groups that audit and monitor all aspects of quality related to pharmaceutical manufacturing procedures and systems in company operations and at third-party suppliers.

Executive Officers of the Company

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers. Except as otherwise noted, all executive officers have been employed by the company in management or executive positions during the last five years.

The term of office for each executive officer expires on the date of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors, to be held on May 4, 2020 in connection with the company's annual shareholders meeting, or on the date his or 

15

her successor is chosen and qualified. No director or executive officer has a “family relationship” with any other director or executive officer of the company, as that term is defined for purposes of this disclosure requirement. There is no understanding between any executive officer or director and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was selected.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Employees

At the end of 2019, we employed approximately 33,625 people, including approximately 18,915 employees outside the U.S. A substantial number of our employees have long records of continuous service.

Information Available on Our Website

Our company website is https://www.lilly.com. None of the information accessible on or through our website is incorporated into this Form 10-K. We make available through the website, free of charge, our company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements, and any amendments to those documents. The company website link to our SEC filings is https://investor.lilly.com/financial-information/sec-filings.

In addition, the Corporate Governance portion of our website includes our corporate governance guidelines, board and committee information (including committee charters), and our articles of incorporation and bylaws. The link to our corporate governance information is https://www.lilly.com/about/corporate-governance/Pages/corporate-governance.aspx.

We will provide paper copies of our SEC filings free of charge upon request to the company’s secretary at the address listed on the front of this Form 10-K.

16

Item 1A.Risk Factors