Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The discussion in this Item 7 should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The discussion in this Item 7 contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company's actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” 

Company Overview

The Company is an omnichannel retail organization operating stores, websites and mobile applications under three brands (Macy's, Bloomingdale's and bluemercury) that sell a wide range of merchandise, including apparel and accessories (men's, women's and kids'), cosmetics, home furnishings and other consumer goods. As of February 1, 2020, the Company's operations were conducted through Macy's, Bloomingdale's, Macy’s Backstage, Bloomingdale’s The Outlet and bluemercury, which are aggregated into one reporting segment in accordance with the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 280, Segment Reporting.

Bloomingdale's in Dubai, United Arab Emirates and Al Zahra, Kuwait are operated under a license agreement with Al Tayer Insignia, a company of the Al Tayer Group, LLC.

2019 Operating Results and Summary

Continuing with its 3-year plan introduced in 2017, the Company continued the implementation of its North Star strategy to transform its omnichannel business and focus on key growth areas, embrace customer centricity, and optimize value in its real estate portfolio. The key components to this strategy were:

1.From Familiar to Favorite included everything the Company does to further its brand awareness and identity to its core customers. 

2.It Must Be Macy’s encompassed delivering the products and experiences customers love and are exclusive to the Company. 

3.Every Experience Matters, in-store and online leveraged the Company's competitive advantage in combining the human touch in its physical stores with cutting-edge technology in its mobile applications and websites. 

4.Funding our Future represented the decisions and actions the Company took to identify and realize resources to fuel growth. 

5.What’s New, What’s Next explored and developed innovation ideas to turn consumer and technology trends to the Company's advantage and to drive growth. 

During 2019, the Company executed its five 2019 key strategic initiatives underlying components of the North Star strategy. The following summarizes how these initiatives contributed to 2019 results.

•In 2019, the Company expanded the growth treatment to an additional 100 locations, from the original 50 locations in 2018. The Growth150 locations (a mix of stores where the Company accelerated a number of successful store initiatives, such as facility upgrades, merchandising strategies, and localized marketing) contributed to the operating results for 2019, with sales results outperforming the other Macy's store locations. 

•Continued the expansion of Backstage, Macy's mall-based off-price business, the Company opened 50 new Backstage locations within Macy’s stores during 2019. This expansion brings the total Backstage locations to 218 (six freestanding and 212 inside Macy's stores) as of February 1, 2020. 

•The Company's vendor direct program (merchandise purchased from the Company's websites and digital applications and shipped directly to customers from the respective vendor) continued its expansion during 2019, adding more than 1 million SKUs and 1,000 new vendors. 

•The mobile-first strategy has continued to create an improved omnichannel experience for customers through the enhancement of app features, such as My Wallet, My Store and My Stylist. Mobile remains the Company's fastest growing channel, with downloads and mobile active users experiencing significant growth during 2019. 

20

•Sales at the Company's destination businesses (six merchandise categories: dresses, fine jewelry, big ticket, men's tailored, women's shoes and beauty) grew in 2019 as the Company invested in these categories through merchandise assortment, customer service, improved store environments, and enhanced marketing.

From a brand standpoint in 2019, Bloomingdale's piloted My List, a rental service, with 80 vendors offering 1,500 styles. In addition, Bloomingdale's opened a new location in Norwalk, Connecticut, bringing the total Bloomingdale's locations to 34 as of February 1, 2020. A new Bloomingdale's in Silicon Valley opened in March 2020. Bloomingdale's the Outlets continued its growth in 2019 with the opening of two new locations and has plans for continued expansion in 2020.

The Company continued to grow its luxury beauty products and spa retailer, bluemercury, by opening nine additional freestanding bluemercury stores in urban and suburban markets and adding bluemercury products and boutiques to Macy's stores. The brand also launched its first loyalty program, Bluerewards, during 2019. As of February 1, 2020, the Company operated 191 bluemercury locations (171 freestanding and 20 inside Macy's stores).

2019 Financial Results

Specific 2019 Macy's, Inc. financial performance included:

•Net sales decreased 1.6% compared to 2018.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Asset sale gains decreased $227 million to $162 million compared to 2018.

•Restructuring, impairment, store closing and other costs increased $218 million to $354 million compared to 2018 driven by the restructuring activities, store closures and campus consolidation plans related to the Polaris strategy.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Return on invested capital ("ROIC"), a key measure of operating productivity, was 17.1% for 2019 and 19.9% for 2018.

•In 2019, the Company repurchased $525 million of debt in a tender offer. In 2018, the Company repurchased $1,094 million of debt, consisting of $344 million of debt repurchased in the open market and $750 million of debt repurchased in a tender offer.

See pages 30 to 34 for reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures presented above to the most comparable U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures and other important information.

Strategic Initiative Update

On February 4, 2020, Macy’s, Inc. announced its Polaris strategy, a three-year plan designed to stabilize profitability and position the Company for sustainable, profitable growth. The five major components of the Polaris strategy are:

21

•Strengthen Customer Relationships: The Company is focusing on building customer lifetime value and expanding the Macy's Star Rewards loyalty program with the launch of Loyalty 3.0 in early February 2020. Loyalty 3.0 allows every Star Rewards member to earn loyalty rewards on their purchases regardless of tender. 

•Curate Quality Fashion: The Company is repositioning its merchandise category focus to drive sales and improve gross margin. As part of the merchandising strategy, the Company is committed to a more focused approach to its higher-margin private brands business with plans to build four of them into $1 billion brands.

•Accelerate Digital Growth: The Company will continue to invest in its websites and mobile apps to deliver a superior fashion experience and accelerate growth. The Company will grow its customer franchise with a strong focus on personalization and continued innovation to deliver the best digital fashion experience to its customers.

•Optimize the Store Portfolio: The Company completed a rigorous evaluation of the Macy’s store portfolio. This included a store-level assessment of each store’s overall value to the fleet, including predicted profitability based on consumer trends and demographics. As a result, the Company plans to close approximately 125 of its least productive stores over the next three years, including approximately 30 stores that were announced for closure in the spring of 2020. The Company will expand the Growth treatment to another 100 locations in 2020 and will expand to 50 more Backstage locations within Macy's stores and add 7 more freestanding Backstage locations in 2020.

The Company is testing a retail ecosystem model with a mix of Macy's store formats within a geographic market. As part of this test, the Company opened a new store format, Market by Macy’s, in Dallas in February 2020. This new format is smaller than an average Macy’s store and will be located off-mall in lifestyle centers. Market by Macy’s will feature a mix of curated Macy’s merchandise and local goods, as well as local food and beverage options and a robust community events calendar. The first Market by Macy’s opened in Dallas in February 2020. 

•Reset Cost Base: The Company is streamlining and right-sizing the organization and expense base to drive improvement in working capital and operating results. This includes reductions in corporate and support functions, campus consolidations and the consolidation of the Company's sole headquarters to New York City, New York. Additionally, the Company is further reshaping its supply chain to support omnichannel customer behavior and the Company’s new retail ecosystem. 

Over the next three years, the savings driven by Polaris are expected to total approximately $1.5 billion in 2022, of which approximately $600 million is associated with gross margin improvement and approximately $900 million is related to selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense savings. Some of these savings are expected to flow through the Company's financial results whereas the remaining portion will be invested back into the business. 

The total costs to be incurred by the Company in implementing its Polaris strategy are estimated to be approximately $400 million to $420 million. In 2019, the Company recognized Polaris-related costs of approximately $318 million, of which approximately $161 million were non-cash impairment charges associated with store closures and campus consolidations and approximately $157 million were cash costs primarily related to severance and human resource-related activities and other costs. The remaining costs to be recorded in 2020 are expected to be cash.

 The Company may incur significant additional charges in future periods as it more fully defines incremental Polaris strategy initiatives and moves into the execution phases of these projects. Since the scope of such efforts are not fully known at this time, the benefits of such initiatives, and any related charges or capital expenditures, are not currently quantifiable. Actions associated with the Polaris strategy are currently expected to continue through 2022.

COVID-19 Impact

In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a global pandemic, which continues to spread throughout the United States. COVID-19 has had a negative impact on the Company's 2020 operations and financial results to date, and the full financial impact of the pandemic cannot be reasonably estimated at this time due to uncertainty as to its severity and duration. The Company has taken the following steps to help mitigate the current impact, as well as the continued uncertainty regarding the ultimate impact of COVID-19 on the Company's business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows:

22

•The Company temporarily closed all stores on March 18, 2020 and the stores will remain closed until it is safe to reopen. This included all Macy’s, Bloomingdale’s, Bluemercury, Macy’s Backstage, Bloomingdales the Outlet and Market by Macy’s stores. 

▪In an effort to increase liquidity, the Company fully drew on the $1,500 million credit facility, announced the suspension of quarterly cash dividends beginning in the second quarter of 2020 and took additional steps to reduce discretionary spending and other expenditures. The Company's Board of Directors rescinded its authorization of any unused amounts under the Company's share repurchase program.

•Due to heightened uncertainty relating to the potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s business operations, including its duration, its impact on overall demand for merchandise and the effect on the Company's stores, on March 20, 2020, the Company announced the withdrawal of its 2020 guidance, which was previously issued on February 5, 2020 and confirmed on February 25, 2020.

▪To improve the Company's current cash position and reduce its cash expenditures during this uncertain time, the Company's Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer will forgo any compensation for the duration of the COVID-19 crisis. In addition, the Company has deferred cash expenditures where possible and temporarily implemented a furlough for the majority of its employee population. Individuals not impacted by the furlough have taken a temporary reduction of their pay.

The COVID-19 pandemic may have a material adverse impact on the Company's operational performance, financial results and cash flows, although the full impact will depend on future developments, including the continued spread and duration of the outbreak and any related restrictions, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. The Company continues to monitor the situation closely and may implement further measures to improve liquidity. Such measures may include pursuing additional sources of financing, securitizing Company assets, reducing or deferring future capital expenditures and other expenses, or other yet to be identified actions.

Presentation of Information

The discussion that follows includes a comparison of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the fiscal years ended February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019. For a discussion of changes from the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018 to February 2, 2019, refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019 (filed April 3, 2019).

23

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

24

Comparison of 2019 and 2018 

Net Sales and Comparable Sales

Net sales for 2019 were $24,560 million, a decrease of $411 million, or 1.6%, from 2018. The decrease in comparable sales on an owned basis for 2019 was 0.8% compared to 2018. The decrease in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis for 2019 was 0.7% compared to 2018. Digital sales continued to be strong in 2019, with digital sales as a percent of net sales increasing to 26.0% from 23.0% in 2018. By family of business, destination businesses including dresses, fine jewelry, fragrances, men's tailored clothing, women's shoes and mattresses performed well during 2019. Sales in 2019 were also strong in active apparel and kids. Sales in 2019 were weak in women's sportswear, handbags, color cosmetics and fashion watches. Sales of Macy's-branded private label brands represented nearly 20% of net sales in the Macy's-branded operations in both 2019 and 2018. 

Comparable sales on an owned basis within the Company's three brands, which include store-within-store locations, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes Macy's Backstage free-standing locations and Bloomingdale's the Outlets, respectively.

Credit Card Revenues, Net

Net credit card revenues were $771 million for 2019, an increase of $3 million compared to $768 million recognized in 2018. Credit card penetration for 2019 was flat to 2018 at 46.9%. Net credit card revenues for 2019 were primarily driven by strong co-brand sales growth from transactions on the card outside of the Macy's family of brands offset by the decline in net sales and improved profit share associated with the underlying credit card portfolio performance.

Cost of Sales 

Cost of sales for 2019 decreased $44 million from 2018. The cost of sales rate as a percent to net sales of 61.8% in 2019 increased 90 basis points in 2018, primarily due to higher promotional markdowns and higher delivery expenses associated with the Company's omnichannel activities, free shipping promotions and loyalty programs. 

SG&A Expenses 

SG&A expenses for 2019 decreased $41 million from 2018 and the SG&A rate as a percent to net sales increased 40 basis points to 36.6% as compared to 2018. The SG&A dollar reduction reflects lower variable expenses due to lower net sales. In addition, advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, decreased to $1,142 million in 2019 from $1,162 million in 2018. 

Gains on Sale of Real Estate

The Company recognized gains of $162 million in 2019 associated with real estate sales, as compared to $389 million in 2018. 2019 included a gain of $52 million associated with the sale of the Macy's Downtown Seattle location. 2018 included gains of $178 million related to the I. Magnin building in Union Square San Francisco and $58 million related to the continued recognition of the deferred gain from the Macy's Brooklyn transaction which closed in 2015. 

Restructuring, Impairment, Store Closing and Other Costs 

Restructuring, impairment, store closing and other costs for 2019 and 2018 of $354 million and $136 million, respectively, included severance and other human resource-related costs, asset impairment charges and other costs associated with organizational changes and store closings. 2019 included costs primarily associated with the Polaris strategy, including $161 million of non-cash impairment charges associated with store closures and campus consolidations 

25

and $157 million related to severance and other human resource-related costs. 2018 included costs and expenses primarily associated with the organizational changes and store closings announced in January 2019. 

Benefit Plan Income, Net

2019 and 2018 included $31 million and $39 million, respectively, of non-cash net benefit plan income relating to the Company's defined benefit plans. This income includes the net of: interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of prior service costs or credits and actuarial gains and losses. The decline from 2018 is mainly driven by the decrease in the expected return on plan assets from 6.75% in 2018 to 6.5% in 2019, partially offset by lower interest cost.

Settlement Charges

$58 million and $88 million of non-cash settlement charges were recognized in 2019 and 2018, respectively. These charges relate to the pro-rata recognition of net actuarial losses associated with the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and are the result of lump sum distributions associated with retiree distribution elections and restructuring activity.

Net Interest Expense 

Net interest expense, excluding losses on early retirement of debt, for 2019 decreased $51 million from 2018. This decrease was primarily driven by the reduction in the Company's debt resulting from the tender offer and open market repurchases in 2018. 

Losses on Early Retirement of Debt

In 2019, the Company completed a tender offer debt repurchase of $525 million face value of senior notes and debentures. As a result of these transactions, the Company recognized $30 million in expenses and fees.

In 2018, the Company repurchased $344 million face value of senior notes and debentures and completed a tender offer debt repurchase of $750 million face value of senior notes and debentures. As a result of these transactions, the Company recognized $33 million in expenses and fees net of the write-off of unamortized debt premiums. 

Effective Tax Rate

The Company's effective tax rate was expense of 22.5% for 2019 and 22.7% for 2018 compared to the federal income tax statutory rate of 21%. The federal income tax statutory rate of 21% reflects U.S. federal tax reform enacted in 2017. The effective tax rates in 2019 and 2018 were impacted by the settlement of certain state and local tax matters.

Net Income Attributable to Macy's, Inc. Shareholders

Net income attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders for 2019 decreased $544 million compared to 2018, driven by lower earnings before interest and taxes ("EBIT") partially offset by lower net interest expense and lower federal, state, and local income tax expense. 

26

Cash Flow, Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company's principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facility described below. 

Because of the COVID-19 outbreak, there is significant uncertainty surrounding the potential impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. The Company is proactively taking steps to increase available cash on hand including, but not limited to, targeted reductions in discretionary operating expenses and capital expenditures, and utilizing funds available under the Company's credit agreement. The Company may pursue additional sources of financing to improve its liquidity. However the disruption of the capital markets caused by the COVID-19 outbreak could make any financing more challenging and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all.

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,608 million in 2019 compared to $1,735 million in 2018. The decline was driven by lower EBITDA and a decrease in non-merchandise accounts payable, which were partially offset by lower tax payments and a net improvement in merchandise inventory and payables. 

Investing Activities

Net cash used by investing activities for 2019 was $1,002 million, compared to net cash used by investing activities of $456 million for 2018. Investing activities for 2019 included purchases of property and equipment totaling $902 million and capitalized software of $255 million, compared to purchases of property and equipment totaling $657 million and capitalized software of $275 million for 2018. The increase in capital expenditures was largely driven by the Company's Growth store investments, which expanded to another 100 stores in 2019, and Backstage strategic initiatives.

In 2019, the Company continued to execute on its real estate strategy that includes creating value through monetization and, in some cases, redevelopment of real estate assets. Overall, property and equipment sales, primarily related to real estate, generated cash proceeds of $185 million in 2019 compared to $474 million in 2018.

Financing Activities

Net cash used by the Company for financing activities was $1,123 million for 2019, including the repayment of $597 million of debt, the payment of $466 million of cash dividends and a $62 million decrease in outstanding checks. 2019 debt repayments included the repayment at maturity of $36 million of 8.5% senior debentures.

During December 2019, the Company completed a tender offer and purchased $525 million in aggregate principal amount of certain senior unsecured notes and debentures. The purchased senior unsecured notes and debentures included $190 million of 4.375% senior notes due 2023, $113 million of 6.9% senior debentures due 2029, $110 million of 2.875% senior notes due 2023, $100 million of 3.875% senior notes due 2022, and $12 million of 7.0% senior debentures due 2028. The total cash cost for the tender offer was $553 million. The Company recognized $30 million of expense related to the recognition of the tender premium and other costs including deferred debt discount amortization. This expense is presented as losses on early retirement of debt on the Consolidated Statements of Income during 2019.

During December 2018, the Company completed a tender offer and purchased $750 million in aggregate principal amount of certain senior unsecured notes and debentures. The purchased senior unsecured notes and debentures included $164 million of 6.65% senior debentures due 2024, $155 million of 7.0% senior debentures due 2028, $114 million of 6.9% senior debentures due 2029, $103 million of 4.5% senior notes due 2034, $94 million of 6.79% senior debentures due 2027, $35 million of 6.7% senior debentures due 2034, $34 million of 6.375% senior notes due 2037, $34 million of 6.7% senior debentures due 2028, $10 million of 6.9% senior debentures due 2032, $5 million of 8.75% senior debentures due 2029, and $2 million of 7.875% senior debentures due 2030. The total cash cost for the tender offer was $789 million. The Company recognized $28 million of expense related to the recognition of the tender premium and other costs partially offset by the unamortized debt premium associated with this debt. This expense is presented as losses on early retirement of debt on the Consolidated Statements of Income during 2018.

During 2018, the Company repurchased $344 million face value of senior notes and debentures. The debt repurchases were made in the open market for a total cost of $354 million, including expenses and other fees related to the transactions. Such repurchases resulted in the recognition of expense of $5 million during 2018 presented as losses on early retirement of debt on the Consolidated Statements of Income.

27

Net cash used by the Company for financing activities was $1,544 million for 2018, including the repayment of $1,149 million of debt and the payment of $463 million of cash dividends, partially offset by the issuance of $45 million of common stock, primarily related to the exercise of stock options, and proceeds of $7 million received from Macy's China Limited's noncontrolling interest shareholder.

Liquidity

On May 9, 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement with certain financial institutions that replaced the previous credit agreement which was set to expire on May 6, 2021. Similar to the previous agreement, the new credit agreement provides for revolving credit borrowings and letters of credit in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500 million (which may be increased to $1,750 million at the option of the Company, subject to the willingness of existing or new lenders to provide commitments for such additional financing). The new credit agreement is scheduled to expire on May 9, 2024, subject to up to two one-year extensions that may be requested by the Company and agreed to by the lenders. 

As of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, there were no revolving credit loans outstanding under the credit agreements, and there were no borrowings under the agreement during 2019 and 2018. In addition, there were no standby letters of credit outstanding at February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019. Revolving loans under the credit agreement bear interest based on various published rates.

The Company is party to a $1,500 million unsecured commercial paper program. The Company may issue and sell commercial paper in an aggregate amount outstanding at any particular time not to exceed its then-current combined borrowing availability under the bank credit agreement with certain financial institutions. There were no borrowings under the program during 2019 and 2018. As of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, there were no remaining borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company's ability to draw on commercial paper is limited. 

The credit agreement requires the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio for the latest four quarters of no less than 3.25 and a specified leverage ratio as of and for the latest four quarters of no more than 3.75. The Company's interest coverage ratio for 2019 was 12.68 and its leverage ratio at February 1, 2020 was 1.78, in each case as calculated in accordance with the credit agreement. The interest coverage ratio is defined as EBITDA divided by net interest expense and the leverage ratio is defined as debt divided by EBITDA. For purposes of these calculations EBITDA is calculated as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non-cash impairment of goodwill, intangibles and real estate, settlement charges, non-recurring cash charges not to exceed in the aggregate $200 million and extraordinary losses less interest income and non-recurring or extraordinary gains. Net interest is adjusted to exclude the premium on early retirement of debt.

A breach of a restrictive covenant in the Company's credit agreement or the inability of the Company to maintain the financial ratios described above could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. In addition, an event of default would occur under the credit agreement if any indebtedness of the Company in excess of an aggregate principal amount of $150 million becomes due prior to its stated maturity or the holders of such indebtedness become able to cause it to become due prior to its stated maturity. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could, subject to the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, elect to declare the outstanding principal, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Moreover, most of the Company's senior notes and debentures contain cross-default provisions based on the non-payment at maturity, or other default after an applicable grace period, of any other debt, the unpaid principal amount of which is not less than $100 million that could be triggered by an event of default under the credit agreement. In such an event, the Company's senior notes and debentures that contain cross-default provisions would also be subject to acceleration. 

At February 1, 2020, no notes or debentures contained provisions requiring acceleration of payment upon a debt rating downgrade. However, the terms of approximately $3,359 million in aggregate principal amount of the Company's senior notes outstanding at that date require the Company to offer to purchase such notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest if there is both a change of control (as defined in the applicable indenture) of the Company and the notes are rated by specified rating agencies at a level below investment grade. 

As of February 1, 2020, the Company's credit rating and outlook were as described in the table below. 

28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In February 2020, Standard and Poor's and Fitch downgraded Macy's long-term debt ratings to BB+ and BBB-, respectively. Outlook by Standard and Poor's and Fitch remained at stable. In March 2020, Moody's downgraded the Company's long-term debt rating from Baa3 to Ba1 and changed the outlook to negative.

Dividends

On February 28, 2020, the Company's board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of 37.75 cents per share on its common stock, payable April 1, 2020, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 13, 2020. 

Share repurchases

As of February 1, 2020, the Company had $1,716 million of authorization remaining under its share repurchase program. 

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

At February 1, 2020, the Company had contractual obligations (within the scope of Item 303(a)(5) of Regulation S-K) as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Operating lease payments include $3,240 million related to options to extend lease terms that are reasonably certain of being exercised and exclude $706 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. 

(b) Operating lease payments include $1,203 million related to non-lease component payments, with $876 million related to options to extend lease terms that are reasonably certain of being exercised. 

“Other obligations” in the foregoing table includes post employment and postretirement benefits, self-insurance reserves, group medical/dental/life insurance programs, merchandise purchase obligations and obligations under outsourcing arrangements, construction contracts, energy and other supply agreements identified by the Company and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year excluding interest and penalties. The Company's merchandise purchase obligations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, typically being higher in the summer and early fall and being lower in the late winter and early spring. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its merchandise inventories and other goods and services otherwise than through binding contracts. Consequently, the amounts shown as “Other obligations” in the foregoing table do not reflect the total amounts that the Company would need to spend on goods and services in order to operate its businesses in the ordinary course. 

Of the Company's $133 million of unrecognized tax benefits at February 1, 2020, within "other obligations" in the foregoing table, the Company has excluded $4 million of deferred tax assets and $117 million of long-term liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits for various tax positions taken. The table also excludes federal, state and local interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits of $60 million. These liabilities may increase or decrease over time as a result 

29

of tax examinations, and given the status of examinations, the Company cannot reliably estimate the period of any cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. 

Important Information Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The Company reports its financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, management believes that certain non-GAAP financial measures provide users of the Company's financial information with additional useful information in evaluating operating performance. Management believes that providing supplemental changes in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis, which includes the impact of growth in comparable sales of departments licensed to third parties, assists in evaluating the Company's ability to generate sales growth, whether through owned businesses or departments licensed to third parties, on a comparable basis, and in evaluating the impact of changes in the manner in which certain departments are operated. In addition, management believes that excluding certain items that are not associated with the Company's core operations and that may vary substantially in frequency and magnitude period-to-period from diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders, EBIT and EBITDA, including as a percent to sales, provide useful supplemental measures that assist in evaluating the Company's ability to generate earnings and leverage sales, respectively, and to more readily compare these metrics between past and future periods. Management also believes that EBIT, EBITDA, Adjusted EBIT and Adjusted EBITDA are frequently used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluations of companies, and that such supplemental measures facilitate comparisons between companies that have different capital and financing structures and/or tax rates. In addition, management believes that ROIC is a useful supplemental measure in evaluating how efficiently the Company employs its capital. The Company uses some of these non-GAAP financial measures as performance measures for components of executive compensation. 

Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as supplementing, and not as an alternative or substitute for, the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Certain of the items that may be excluded or included in non-GAAP financial measures may be significant items that could impact the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows and should therefore be considered in assessing the Company's actual and future financial condition and performance. Additionally, the amounts received by the Company on account of sales of departments licensed to third parties are limited to commissions received on such sales. The methods used by the Company to calculate its non-GAAP financial measures may differ significantly from methods used by other companies to compute similar measures. As a result, any non-GAAP financial measures presented herein may not be comparable to similar measures provided by other companies.

Changes in Comparable Sales 

The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure of changes in comparable sales on an owned plus licensed basis, to GAAP comparable sales (i.e., on an owned basis), which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Notes:

(1)Represents the period-to-period percentage change in net sales from stores in operation throughout the year presented and the immediately preceding year and all online sales, adjusting for the 53rd week in 2017, excluding commissions from departments licensed to third parties. Stores impacted by a natural disaster or undergoing significant expansion or shrinkage remain in the comparable sales calculation unless the store, or a material portion of the store, is closed for a significant period of time. Definitions and calculations of comparable sales differ among companies in the retail industry.

(2)Represents the impact of including the sales of departments licensed to third parties occurring in stores in operation throughout the year presented and the immediately preceding year and all online sales, adjusting for the 53rd week in 2017, in the calculation of comparable sales. The Company licenses third parties to operate certain departments in its stores and online and receives commissions from these third parties based on a percentage of their net sales. In its financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP, the Company includes these commissions (rather than sales of the departments licensed to third parties) in its net sales. The Company does not, however, include any amounts in respect of licensed department sales (or any commissions earned on such sales) in its comparable sales in accordance 

30

with GAAP (i.e., on an owned basis). The amounts of commissions earned on sales of departments licensed to third parties are not material to its net sales for the periods presented.

Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share Attributable to Macy's, Inc. Shareholders

The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders, excluding certain items, to GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP measure.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) 2018 excludes impairment, restructuring, and other costs attributable to the noncontrollling interest shareholder of $8 million.

31

Adjusted EBIT and EBITDA as a Percent to Net Sales

The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures EBIT and EBITDA, as adjusted to exclude certain items ("Adjusted EBIT and Adjusted EBITDA"), as a percent to net sales to GAAP net income attributable to Macy's, Inc. shareholders as a percent to net sales, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) 2018 excludes impairment, restructuring, and other costs attributable to the noncontrollling interest shareholder of $8 million.

32

ROIC

Historically, the Company defined ROIC as adjusted EBITDA, excluding net lease expense, as a percent to average invested capital. Average invested capital is comprised of an annual two-point (i.e., end of the year presented and the immediately preceding year) average of gross property and equipment, a capitalized value of non-capitalized leases equal to periodic annual reported net rent expense multiplied by a factor of eight and a four-point (i.e., end of each quarter within the period presented) average of other selected assets and liabilities. The calculation of the capitalized value of non-capitalized leases is consistent with industry and credit rating agency practice and the specified assets are subject to a four-point average to compensate for seasonal fluctuations. 

In conjunction with the Company's adoption of ASU No. 2016-02 on February 3, 2019, the Company recognized lease liabilities and related right of use ("ROU") assets on the balance sheet for its operating leases. In the calculation of the Company's ROIC as of February 1, 2020, the Company utilized the total lease ROU assets in lieu of the capitalized value of non-capitalized leases, excluding variable rent which is still multiplied by a factor of eight, as a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-02. In the Company's ROIC calculation as of February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018, a capitalized value of non-capitalized leases equal to periodic annual reported net rent expense multiplied by a factor of eight was utilized. Rent expense in 2019 reflects lease expense related to the Company's operating leases in accordance with ASU 2016-02 and excludes non-lease component expenses. See Note 4, Properties and Leases, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on leases, including non-lease components.

 In 2019, the calculation of ROIC reflected certain refinements to better reflect the company's adjusted EBITDA, excluding lease expense, and invested capital which are summarized below (4-point average of balance, as applicable):

•Exclude non-lease components of $83 million from lease expense.

•Exclude benefit plan income, net of $31 million from Adjusted EBITDA, excluding lease expense.

•Exclude rabbi trust investments related to company's deferred compensation plan from prepaid expenses and other current assets ($32 million).

•Exclude deferred financing costs ($4 million) and net pension asset ($46 million) from other assets.

•Exclude dividend payable ($29 million), current liabilities for other postretirement health care and life insurance benefits and the supplementary retirement plan ($15 million and $61 million, respectively), and the current lease liability ($306 million) from accounts payable and accrued liabilities.

•Include long-term workers' compensation and general liability ($371 million).

The following is a tabular reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure of ROIC to net income as a percent to property and equipment - net, which the Company believes to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34

Critical Accounting Policies

Merchandise Inventories 

Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow-moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. 

Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross margin reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. 

Long-Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges 

The carrying values of long-lived assets, inclusive of ROU assets, are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, such as historical operating losses or plans to close stores before the end of their previously estimated useful lives. Additionally, on an annual basis, the recoverability of the carrying values of individual stores is evaluated. A potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes management's assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write-down is recorded if the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long-lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write-downs. 

If the Company commits to a plan to dispose of a long-lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful life, estimated cash flows are revised accordingly, and the Company may be required to record an asset impairment write-down. Additionally, related liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. 

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

The Company reviews the carrying value of its goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually, as of the end of fiscal May, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change, for possible impairment in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. For impairment testing, goodwill has been assigned to reporting units which consist of the Company's retail operating divisions. Macy's and bluemercury are the only reporting units with goodwill as of February 1, 2020, and 97% of the Company's goodwill is allocated to the Macy's reporting unit.

The Company may elect to evaluate qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets is less than its carrying value. If the qualitative evaluation indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative impairment test is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment for a reporting unit or indefinite lived intangible asset and directly perform the quantitative assessment. This determination can be made on an individual reporting unit or asset basis, and performance of the qualitative assessment may resume in a subsequent period.

The quantitative impairment test involves estimating the fair value of each reporting unit and indefinite lived intangible asset and comparing these estimated fair values with the respective reporting unit or indefinite lived intangible asset carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss will be recognized in an amount equal to such excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. If the carrying value of an individual indefinite lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, such individual indefinite lived intangible asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess.

35

Estimating the fair values of reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets involves the use of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments with respect to a variety of factors, including sales, gross margin and SG&A rates, capital expenditures, cash flows and the selection and use of an appropriate discount rate and market values and multiples of earnings and revenues of similar public companies. Projected sales, gross margin and SG&A expense rate assumptions and capital expenditures are based on the Company's annual business plan or other forecasted results. Discount rates reflect market-based estimates of the risks associated with the projected cash flows of the reporting unit or indefinite lived intangible asset.

The use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments in the goodwill impairment testing process, including with respect to the estimated future cash flows of the Company's reporting units, the discount rate used to discount such estimated cash flows to their net present value, and the reasonableness of the resultant implied control premium relative to the Company's market capitalization, could materially increase or decrease the fair value of the reporting unit and/or its net assets and, accordingly, could materially increase or decrease any related impairment charge.

For its annual goodwill impairment test as of the end of fiscal May 2019, the Company performed a quantitative impairment assessment for all of its reporting units. The Company determined the fair value of each of its reporting units using a market approach, an income approach, or a combination of both, where appropriate. In the most recent annual impairment test performed as of the end of fiscal May 2019, the fair value of the Macy's reporting unit exceeded its related carrying value by approximately 29%.

As of the end of fiscal May 2019, the Company elected to perform a qualitative impairment test on its intangible assets with indefinite lives and concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair values exceeded the carrying values and the intangible assets with indefinite lives were not impaired.

During 2019, as a result of a number of business factors, including the Company's market capitalization being below its carrying value, qualitative interim impairment assessments of the Macy's goodwill balance were performed as of November 2, 2019 and February 1, 2020. As a result of these tests, the Company concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair values of the reporting unit exceeded the carrying value and goodwill was not impaired. 

During the first quarter of 2020, the Company observed a significant decline in the market valuation of the Company’s common shares as a result of events occurring after the end of 2019, including but not limited to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, the Company determined a triggering event had occurred that will require an interim quantitative impairment assessment for the Company's reporting units. If the market valuation of the Company's common shares remains at current levels, the Company expects to incur a goodwill impairment charge. Any impairment charge will be recognized in the first quarter of 2020.

Income Taxes 

Income taxes are estimated based on the tax statutes, regulations and case law of the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred income tax assets are evaluated for recoverability based on all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. Deferred income tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred income tax assets will not be realized. 

Uncertain tax positions are recognized if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Uncertain tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are then measured to determine the amount of benefit eligible for recognition in the financial statements. Each uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Uncertain tax positions are evaluated and adjusted as appropriate, while taking into account the progress of audits of various taxing jurisdictions. Resolution of these matters could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Significant judgment is required in evaluating the Company's uncertain tax positions, provision for income taxes, and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. Although the Company believes that its judgments are 

36

reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in the Company's historical income provisions and accruals. 

Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plans 

The Company has a funded defined benefit pension plan (the “Pension Plan”) and an unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the “SERP”). The Company accounts for these plans in accordance with ASC Topic 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits. Under ASC Topic 715, an employer recognizes the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. Additionally, pension expense is generally recognized on an accrual basis over the average remaining lifetime of participants. The pension expense calculation is generally independent of funding decisions or requirements. 

The Pension Protection Act of 2006 provides the funding requirements for the Pension Plan which are different from the employer's accounting for the plan as outlined in ASC Topic 715. No funding contributions were required, and the Company made no funding contributions to the Pension Plan in 2019 and 2018. As of the date of this report, the Company does not anticipate making funding contributions to the Pension Plan in 2020. 

The calculation of pension expense and pension liabilities requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future actual experience may differ significantly from current expectations. The Company believes that the most critical assumptions relate to the long-term rate of return on plan assets (in the case of the Pension Plan) and the discount rate used to determine the present value of projected benefit obligations. 

The Company's assumed annual long-term rate of return for the Pension Plan's assets was 6.50% for 2019, 6.75% for 2018 and 7.00% for 2017 based on expected future returns on the portfolio of assets. For 2020, the Company is lowering the assumed annual long-term rate of return to 6.25% based on expected future returns of the portfolio of assets. The Company develops its expected long-term rate of return assumption by evaluating input from several professional advisors taking into account the asset allocation of the portfolio and long-term asset class return expectations, as well as long-term inflation assumptions. Pension expense increases or decreases as the expected rate of return on the assets of the Pension Plan decreases or increases, respectively. Lowering or raising the expected long-term rate of return assumption on the Pension Plan's assets by 0.25% would increase or decrease the estimated 2020 pension expense by approximately $7 million. 

The Company discounted its future pension obligations using a weighted-average rate of 2.83% at February 1, 2020 and 4.03% at February 2, 2019 for the Pension Plan and 2.89% at February 1, 2020 and 4.10% at February 2, 2019 for the SERP. The discount rate used to determine the present value of the Company's Pension Plan and SERP obligations is based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities with various maturities. Each year's expected future benefit payments are discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate, thereby generating the overall discount rate for Pension Plan and SERP obligations. As the discount rate is reduced or increased, the pension liability would increase or decrease, respectively, and future pension expense would decrease or increase, respectively. Lowering the discount rates by 0.25% would increase the projected benefit obligations at February 1, 2020 by approximately $93 million and would decrease estimated 2020 pension expense by approximately $4 million. Increasing the discount rates by 0.25% would decrease the projected benefit obligations at February 1, 2020 by approximately $88 million and would increase estimated 2020 pension expense by approximately $4 million. 

The Company estimates the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for the Pension Plan and SERP. This method uses a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components of net periodic benefit costs. Under this approach, the Company applies discounting using individual spot rates from the yield curve composed of the rates of return from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities available at the measurement date. These spot rates align to each of the projected benefit obligation and service cost cash flows. 

New Pronouncements

See Note 1, Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion on new accounting pronouncements.

37

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.