Item 1.Business.

General

The Company is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1985. The Company and its predecessors have been operating department stores since 1830. The Company operates 775 store locations in 43 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam. As of February 1, 2020, the Company's operations were conducted through Macy's, Bloomingdale's, Bloomingdale’s The Outlet, Macy’s Backstage, and bluemercury. In addition, Bloomingdale's in Dubai, United Arab Emirates and Al Zahra, Kuwait are operated under license agreements with Al Tayer Insignia, a company of Al Tayer Group, LLC.

The Company sells a wide range of merchandise, including apparel and accessories (men’s, women’s and kids'), cosmetics, home furnishings and other consumer goods. The specific assortments vary by size of store, merchandising assortments and character of customers in the trade areas. Most stores are located at urban or suburban sites, principally in densely populated areas across the United States.

Disaggregation of the Company's net sales by family of business for 2019, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED](a) Other primarily includes restaurant sales, allowance for merchandise returns adjustments, certain loyalty program income and breakage income from unredeemed gift cards.

In 2019, the Company’s subsidiaries provided various support functions to the Company’s retail operations on an integrated, company-wide basis.

•The Company’s wholly-owned bank subsidiary, FDS Bank, provides certain collections, customer service and credit marketing services in respect of all credit card accounts that are owned either by Department Stores National Bank (“DSNB”), a subsidiary of Citibank, N.A., or FDS Bank and that constitute a part of the credit programs of the Company’s retail operations.

•Macy’s Systems and Technology, Inc. (“MST”), a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, provides operational electronic data processing and management information services to all of the Company’s operations other than bluemercury.

•Macy’s Merchandising Group, Inc. (“MMG”), a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of the Company, and its subsidiary Macy's Merchandising Group International, LLC, are responsible for the design, development and marketing of Macy’s private label brands and certain licensed brands. Bloomingdale’s uses MMG for a 

3

small portion of its private label merchandise. The Company believes that its private label merchandise differentiates its merchandise assortments from those of its competitors and delivers exceptional value to its customers. MMG also offers its services, either directly or indirectly, to unrelated third parties.

•Macy’s Logistics and Operations (“Macy’s Logistics”), a division of a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, provides warehousing and merchandise distribution services for the Company’s operations and digital customer fulfillment.

The Company’s principal executive office is located at 151 West 34th Street, New York, New York 10001, telephone number: (212) 494-1602.

Employees 

As of February 1, 2020, excluding seasonal employees, the Company had approximately 123,000 employees, primarily including regular full-time and part-time. Because of the seasonal nature of the retail business, the number of employees peaks in the holiday season. Approximately 8% of the Company’s employees were represented by unions as of February 1, 2020. 

Seasonality 

The retail business is seasonal in nature with a high proportion of sales and operating income generated in the months of November and December. Working capital requirements fluctuate during the year, increasing in mid-summer in anticipation of the fall merchandising season and increasing substantially prior to the holiday season when the Company carries significantly higher inventory levels.

Purchasing

The Company purchases merchandise from many suppliers, no one of which accounted for more than 5% of the Company’s purchases during 2019. The Company has no material long-term purchase commitments with any of its suppliers, and believes that it is not dependent on any one supplier. The Company considers its relations with its suppliers to be good.

Private Label Brands and Related Trademarks

The principal private label brands currently offered by the Company include Alfani, American Rag, Aqua, Bar III, Belgique, Charter Club, Club Room, Epic Threads, first impressions, Giani Bernini, Greg Norman for Tasso Elba, Holiday Lane, Home Design, Hotel Collection, Hudson Park, Ideology, I-N-C, jenni, JM Collection, Karen Scott, lune+aster, M-61, Maison Jules, Martha Stewart Collection, Material Girl, Oake, Sky, Style & Co., Sun + Stone, Sutton Studio, Tasso Elba, Thalia Sodi, The Cellar, Tools of the Trade and Wild Pair. 

The trademarks associated with the Company's private label brands, other than American Rag, Greg Norman for Tasso Elba, Martha Stewart Collection, Material Girl and Thalia Sodi, are owned by the Company. The American Rag, Greg Norman, Martha Stewart Collection, Material Girl and Thalia Sodi brands are owned by third parties, which license the trademarks associated with the brands to Macy’s pursuant to agreements. The agreements for American Rag, Greg Norman, Material Girl, and Thalia Sodi expired at the end of 2019, while the Martha Stewart agreement extends through 2022.

Competition

The retail industry is highly competitive. The Company’s operations compete with many retail formats on the national and local level, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, manufacturers' outlets, off-price and discount stores, online retailers, catalogs and television shopping, among others. The Company seeks to attract customers by offering compelling, high-quality products, great prices and trusted service across all channels. Macy’s stores are located in premier locations and the Company provides a superior omnichannel fashion experience. Other retailers may compete for customers on some or all of these bases, or on other bases, and may be perceived by some potential customers as being better aligned with their particular preferences.

Available Information

The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") available free of charge through its internet website at https://www.macysinc.com as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains an 

4

internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC; the address of that site is https://www.sec.gov. In addition, the Company has made the following available free of charge through its website at https://www.macysinc.com:

•Charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee, Finance Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee,

•Corporate Governance Principles,

•Lead Independent Director Policy,

•Non-Employee Director Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,

•Code of Conduct,

•Standards for Director Independence,

•Related Person Transactions Policy, 

•Method to Facilitate Receipt, Retention and Treatment of Communications, and

•Proxy Access By-Laws.

Any of these items are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Requests should be sent to the Corporate Secretary of Macy’s, Inc. at 151 West 34th Street, New York, New York 10001.

Information about our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth certain information as of March 19, 2020 regarding the Executive Officers of the Company: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Executive Officer Biographies

Jeff Gennette has been Chief Executive Officer of the Company since March 2017 and Chairman of the Board since January 2018; prior thereto he was President from March 2014 to August 2017, Chief Merchandising Officer from February 2009 to March 2014, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Macy’s West in San Francisco from February 2008 to February 2009 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Seattle-based Macy’s Northwest from February 2006 through February 2008.

Paula A. Price has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since July 2018; prior thereto she was a full-time lecturer in the Accounting and Management Unit at Harvard Business School from January 2014 to July 2018 and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ahold USA from May 2009 to January 2014.

Elisa D. Garcia has been Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of the Company since September 2016; prior thereto she served as Chief Legal Officer of Office Depot, Inc. from December 2013 to September 2016, Executive Vice President and Secretary from July 2007 to September 2016 and General Counsel from July 2007 to December 2013.

John T. Harper has been Executive Vice President, Chief Operations Officer of the Company since January 2020; prior thereto he served as Chief Stores Officer from September 2017 to January 2020, President of Store Operations from May 2009 to September 2017, President of Macy’s Home Store from 2007 to 2009, Vice Chairman of Macy’s Midwest from 2006 to 2007 and Chairman of Hecht’s department stores from 2004 to 2006.

5

Danielle L. Kirgan has been Executive Vice President and Chief Transformation Officer of the Company since February 2020 and Chief Human Resources Officer since October 2017; prior thereto she served as Senior Vice President, People at American Airlines Group, Inc. from October 2016 to October 2017, Chief Human Resources Officer at Darden Restaurants, Inc. from January 2015 to October 2016 and Senior Vice President from May 2010, Vice President, Global Human Resources at ACI Worldwide, Inc. from January 2009 to December 2009, and Vice President, Human Resources at Conagra Foods, Inc. from 2004 to 2008.

Felicia Williams has been Senior Vice President, Controller and Enterprise Risk Officer of the Company since June 2016; prior thereto she served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Risk Management from February 2011 to June 2016, Senior Vice President, Treasury and Risk Management from September 2009 to February 2011, Vice President, Finance and Risk Management from October 2008 to September 2009, and Vice President, Internal Audit from March 2004 to October 2008.

Item 1A.Risk Factors.