Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Market risk includes risks that arise from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes that affect market sensitive instruments. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. As of December 31, 2019, 22.2% of our total market capitalization consisted of debt borrowings. Our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. To achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. We use our best efforts to have our debt instruments mature across multiple years, which we believe limits our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. As of December 31, 2019, 98.4% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates after considering related derivative instruments. We regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 

The table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands). 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

As of December 31, 2019, we maintained one unsecured term loan totaling $300.0 million that matures in March 2022. The term loan bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a spread of 0.90% to 1.75% based on the credit ratings of our unsecured debt. As of December 31, 2019, the loan was bearing interest at a rate of one month LIBOR plus 0.95%. The interest rate of the unsecured term loan was fixed at 2.32% with interest rate swaps that mature in January 2020. The fair value asset of the interest rate derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments was $0.1 million as of December 31, 2019. 

35 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.