MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

MANAGEMENT'S VIEW OF THE BUSINESS

In analyzing business trends, management reviews results on a constant currency basis and considers a variety of performance and financial measures which are considered to be non-GAAP, including comparable sales and comparable guest count growth, Systemwide sales growth, return on incremental invested capital ("ROIIC"), free cash flow and free cash flow conversion rate, as described below. Management believes these measures are important in understanding the financial performance of the Company.

•Constant currency results exclude the effects of foreign currency translation and are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average exchange rates. Management reviews and analyzes business results excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, impairment and other strategic charges and gains, as well as income tax provision adjustments related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("Tax Act"), and bases incentive compensation plans on these results, because the Company believes this better represents underlying business trends. 

•Comparable sales represent sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed. Some of the reasons restaurants may be temporarily closed include reimaging or remodeling, rebuilding, road construction and natural disasters. Comparable sales exclude the impact of currency translation, and, since 2017, also exclude sales from Venezuela due to its hyper-inflation. Management generally identifies hyper-inflationary markets as those markets whose cumulative inflation rate over a three-year period exceeds 100%. Comparable sales are driven by changes in guest counts and average check, which is affected by changes in pricing and product mix. The goal is to achieve a relatively balanced contribution from both guest counts and average check. 

•Comparable guest counts represent the number of transactions at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees, in operation at least thirteen months including those temporarily closed.

•Systemwide sales include sales at all restaurants, whether operated by the Company or by franchisees. While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes the information is important in understanding the Company’s financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base. The Company's revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from franchised restaurants operated by conventional franchisees, developmental licensees and affiliates.

•ROIIC is a measure reviewed by management over one-year and three-year time periods to evaluate the overall profitability of the markets, the effectiveness of capital deployed and the future allocation of capital. The return is calculated by dividing the change in operating income plus depreciation and amortization (numerator) by the cash used for investing activities (denominator), primarily capital expenditures. The calculation uses a constant average foreign exchange rate over the periods included in the calculation.

•Free cash flow, defined as cash provided by operations less capital expenditures, and free cash flow conversion rate, defined as free cash flow divided by net income, are measures reviewed by management in order to evaluate the Company’s ability to convert net profits into cash resources, after reinvesting in the core business, that can be used to pursue opportunities to enhance shareholder value. 

2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

In 2019, global comparable sales increased 5.9% and global comparable guest counts increased 1.0%, reflecting the continued execution against the Velocity Growth Plan.

•Comparable sales in the U.S. increased 5.0% and comparable guest counts decreased 1.9%. The increase in comparable sales reflected strong sales of our iconic core products driven by promotional activity and the continued positive impact from our Experience of the Future ("EOTF") deployment, as well as menu price increases.

•Comparable sales in the International Operated segment increased 6.1% and comparable guest counts increased 3.5%, reflecting positive results across all markets, primarily driven by the U.K. and France.

•Comparable sales in the International Developmental Licensed segment increased 7.2% and comparable guest counts increased 2.2%, reflecting positive sales performance across all geographic regions.

In addition to improved comparable sales and guest count performance, the Company achieved the following financial results in 2019:

•Consolidated revenues were relatively flat with the prior year (increased 3% in constant currencies) at $21.1 billion.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Cash provided by operations was $8.1 billion.

•Capital expenditures of $2.4 billion were allocated mainly to reinvestment in existing restaurants and, to a lesser extent, to new restaurant openings.

•Free cash flow was $5.7 billion, a 36% increase over the prior year.

•Across the System, about 1,200 restaurants (including those in our developmental licensee and affiliated markets) were opened. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Company increased its quarterly cash dividend per share by 8% to $1.25 for the fourth quarter, equivalent to an annual dividend of $5.00 per share. 

•The Company returned $8.6 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends for the year, marking successful achievement of the Company's targeted return of $25 billion for the three-year period ending 2019.

STRATEGIC DIRECTION 

The strength of the alignment among the Company, its franchisees and suppliers is key to McDonald's long-term success. By leveraging the System, McDonald’s is able to identify, implement and scale ideas that meet customers' changing needs and preferences. McDonald's continually builds on its competitive advantages of System alignment and geographic diversification to deliver consistent, yet locally-relevant restaurant experiences to customers as an integral part of their communities.

CUSTOMER-CENTRIC GROWTH STRATEGY

The Velocity Growth Plan, the Company’s customer-centric strategy, is rooted in extensive customer research and insights, along with a deep understanding of the key drivers of the business. The Plan is designed to drive sustainable comparable sales and guest count growth, reliable long-term measures of the Company's strength that are vital to growing shareholder value. In 2019, execution of the Plan drove further broad-based growth around the globe. In 2020, the Company will continue to focus on elevating the customer experience through improved restaurant execution and creating excitement around our food and value offerings, while continuing to leverage technology to enable greater convenience and customer personalization.

The Company continues to target the opportunity at the core of its business - its food, value and customer experience. The strategy is built on the following three pillars, all focusing on building a better McDonald’s:

•Retaining existing customers - focusing on areas where it already has a strong foothold in the IEO category, including family occasions and food-led breakfast.

•Regaining customers who visit less often - recommitting to areas of historic strength, namely food taste and quality, convenience and speed, experience and value.

•Converting casual to committed customers - building stronger relationships with customers so they visit more often, by elevating and leveraging the McCafé coffee brand and enhancing snack and treat offerings.

The Company continues to scale and optimize the Plan through the following growth accelerators:

•Experience of the Future. The Company is building upon its investments in EOTF, focusing on restaurant modernization in order to transform the restaurant service experience and enhance our brand in the eyes of our customers. The modernization efforts are designed to provide a better customer experience, leading to increased frequency of customer visits and higher average check. As of the end of 2019, EOTF is deployed in over half of the restaurants in our global system, with most of the major markets substantially complete. In 2019, the U.S. converted about 2,000 restaurants to EOTF, resulting in about 70% of the U.S. restaurants now having EOTF. In 2020, the Company will further deploy EOTF around the globe, including converting about 1,800 of the remaining restaurants in the U.S. to EOTF.

•Digital. The Company is improving its existing service model with customers through technology. Digital technology is transforming the retail industry, and the Company is using it to transform McDonald’s for our customers at an accelerated pace. By evolving the technology platform, the Company is expanding choices for how customers order, pay and are served their food. The added functionality of the Company’s global mobile app, self-order kiosks, and other technologies enable greater convenience for the customer on their terms. In 2019, the Company built on its digital foundation, acquiring Dynamic Yield, a leader in personalization and decision logic technology. The Company has implemented this technology via outdoor digital menu boards in over 11,000 U.S. drive-thrus, offering customers a more customized experience and producing sales growth through higher average check. This technology is also deployed in nearly all drive-thrus in Australia, and we are looking to deploy across further international markets beginning in 2020. The Company continued to expand its technological capabilities via the acquisition of Apprente, an early-stage leader in conversational interface technology. This technology is expected to provide more efficient and accurate ordering in the drive-thru. In 2020, the Company will continue to utilize more personalized digital initiatives to engage customers, grow awareness and adoption of digital offerings, and support our menu offerings.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 7

•Delivery. The Company continues to build momentum with its delivery platform as a way of expanding the convenience for its customers. In 2019, McDonald’s continued to add third-party delivery partners in order to maximize the System’s delivery scale and potential. Across the global system, nearly 25,000 restaurants now offer delivery. Customers are responding positively, as demonstrated by high satisfaction ratings, strong reorder rates, and average checks that are generally two times higher than average non-delivery transactions. Further, in some of our top markets, delivery now represents as much as 10% of sales in those restaurants offering delivery. Consequently, McDonald’s global delivery business has grown to over $4 billion in Systemwide sales in 2019, up from $1 billion in 2016. We continue to see great runway ahead of us to drive awareness and trial of delivery, and are focusing on efforts to encourage frequency and retention in 2020 and beyond.

The Plan is a global strategy that is tailored at a market level to allow for the best customer experience and most convenience for our valued customers. While the Plan provides a consistent framework on how to retain, regain, and convert customers, the execution varies across the globe. The U.S., for example, remains centered on returning to guest count growth by focusing on running better restaurant operations, introducing new menu items and offering compelling value. In addition, we will continue transforming the customer experience through aggressive execution of the growth accelerators of EOTF, digital and delivery. In 2020, the markets around the world will continue to make progress on the three pillars of the Plan and its growth accelerators, focusing on food, value and customer convenience.

Our Plan also includes the Company further embedding actions in response to certain social and environmental issues into the core of our business. As one of the world’s largest restaurant companies, our approach highlights our commitment to global actions that are consistent with our strategic priorities and provides an opportunity to collaborate with our franchisees and suppliers to drive meaningful progress. We recognize that our success in advancing these initiatives will be demonstrated as customers continue to feel good about visiting McDonald’s restaurants and eating our food.

While we are working to address many challenges facing society today, we are elevating global action where we believe we can make the greatest difference in driving industry-wide change. Our priorities reflect the social and environmental impacts of our food and our business. Highlights include science-based targets for greenhouse gas emissions reductions and climate action, advancing sustainable practices in beef production with suppliers and producers, driving innovative solutions for our packaging and recycling efforts, and ongoing commitments to support families and provide opportunities for youth in our communities. In 2019, for example, we made progress toward our 2030 climate action target with the addition of significant investments in renewable energy projects in the U.S.; we achieved our goal of 100% sustainably sourced McCafé coffee for U.S. restaurants; and we continued to make a difference for families through innovation in our food offerings, reading programs and support for Ronald McDonald House Charities.

The Company is confident, that under the Plan, we will continue to improve the taste of our delicious food, enhance convenience and service through running great restaurants, offer compelling value, and heighten the trust consumers place in our brand, which we believe will enable us to deliver long-term sustainable growth.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 8

OUTLOOK

2020 Outlook

The following information is provided to assist in forecasting the Company’s future results.

•Changes in Systemwide sales are driven by comparable sales, net restaurant unit expansion, and the potential impacts of hyper-inflation. The Company expects net restaurant additions to add approximately 1.5 percentage points to 2020 Systemwide sales growth (in constant currencies).

•The Company expects full year 2020 selling, general and administrative expenses to increase about 5% to 7% in constant currencies as the Company invests in technology and research & development, and incurs costs related to the Worldwide Owner/Operator Convention, which will occur in the second quarter 2020. 

•Based on current interest and foreign currency exchange rates, the Company expects interest expense for the full year 2020 to increase about 4% to 6% due primarily to higher average debt balances. 

•A significant part of the Company's operating income is generated outside the U.S., and about 40% of its total debt is denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, earnings are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, British Pound, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. Collectively, these currencies represent approximately 80% of the Company's operating income outside the U.S. If all four of these currencies moved by 10% in the same direction, the Company's annual diluted earnings per share would change by about 35 cents. 

•The Company expects the effective income tax rate for the full year 2020 to be in the 23% to 25% range. Some volatility may result in a quarterly tax rate outside of the annual range. 

•The Company expects capital expenditures for 2020 to be approximately $2.4 billion. About $1.3 billion will be dedicated to our U.S. business, over half of which is allocated to approximately 1,800 EOTF projects. Globally, we expect to open roughly 1,400 restaurants. We will spend approximately $800 million in the U.S. and International Operated segments to open 400 restaurants and our developmental licensees and affiliates will contribute capital towards the remaining 1,000 restaurant openings in the International Developmental Licensed segment. The Company expects about 1,000 net restaurant additions in 2020. 

Long-Term Outlook

•Over the long-term, the Company expects to achieve the following average annual (constant currency) financial targets:

◦Systemwide sales growth of 3% to 5%;

◦Operating margin in the mid-40% range;

◦Earnings per share growth in the high-single digits; and

◦Return on incremental invested capital in the mid-20% range.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 9

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m Not meaningful

IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ON REPORTED RESULTS

While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect reported results, McDonald’s mitigates exposures, where practical, by purchasing goods and services in local currencies, financing in local currencies and hedging certain foreign-denominated cash flows.

In 2019, results reflected the weakening of the Euro and most other major currencies. In 2018, results reflected the stronger Euro and British Pound. In 2017, results reflected the stronger Euro, offset by the weaker British Pound.

Impact of foreign currency translation on reported results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NET INCOME AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

In 2019, net income increased 2% (4% in constant currencies) to $6.0 billion and diluted earnings per common share increased 5% (7% in constant currencies) to $7.88. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.21 on diluted earnings per share. 

In 2018, net income increased 14% (13% in constant currencies) to $5.9 billion and diluted earnings per common share increased 18% (18% in constant currencies) to $7.54. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $0.04 on diluted earnings per share.

Results in 2019 reflected stronger operating performance primarily due to an increase in sales-driven franchised margin dollars, partly offset by lower gains on sales of restaurant businesses (mostly in the U.S.) and higher G&A spend. Results in 2018 reflected a lower effective tax rate, and stronger operating performance due to an increase in sales-driven franchised margin dollars, partly offset by lower Company-operated margin dollars due to the impact of refranchising. 

 McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 10

Outlined below is additional information for the full year 2019, 2018, and 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the 2019 results were:

◦$84 million, or $0.11 per share, of income tax benefit due to new regulations issued in the fourth quarter 2019 related to the Tax Act; and 

◦$74 million of pre-tax strategic charges, or $0.07 per share, primarily related to impairment associated with the purchase of our joint venture partner's interest in the India Delhi market, partly offset by gains on the sales of property at the former Corporate headquarters.

Included in the 2018 results were:

◦$75 million, or $0.10 per share, of net tax cost associated with the final 2018 adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded in December 2017 under the Tax Act; 

◦$140 million of pre-tax, non-cash impairment charges, or $0.17 per share; and

◦$94 million of pre-tax strategic restructuring charges, or $0.09 per share.

Included in the 2017 results were:

◦$700 million of net tax cost associated with the Tax Act, or $0.82 per share; and

◦a pre-tax gain of $850 million on the sale of the Company’s businesses in China and Hong Kong, offset in part by $150 million of restructuring and impairment charges in connection with the Company’s global G&A and refranchising initiatives, for a net benefit of $0.53 per share.

Excluding the above 2019 and 2018 items, 2019 net income decreased 3% (1% in constant currencies), and diluted earnings per share decreased 1% (increased 2% in constant currencies). Excluding items impacting 2018 and 2017, 2018 net income increased 14% (14% in constant currencies), and diluted earnings per share increased 19% (18% in constant currencies).

The Company repurchased 25.0 million shares of its stock for $5.0 billion in 2019 and 32.2 million shares of its stock for $5.2 billion in 2018, driving reductions in weighted-average shares outstanding on a diluted basis in both periods, which positively benefited earnings per share.

REVENUES 

The Company's revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from franchised restaurants operated by conventional franchisees, developmental licensees and affiliates. Revenues from conventional franchised restaurants include rent and royalties based on a percent of sales with minimum rent payments, and initial fees. Revenues from restaurants licensed to developmental licensees and affiliates include a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally include initial fees. Initial fees are recognized evenly over the franchise term.

Franchised restaurants represent 93% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide at December 31, 2019. The Company's current mix of Company-owned and franchised restaurants enables the Company to generate stable and predictable revenue and cash flow streams. Refranchising to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants may negatively impact consolidated revenues as Company-operated sales are replaced by franchised revenues, where the Company receives rent and/or royalty revenue based on a percent of sales.

In 2019, revenues were relatively flat with the prior year (increased 3% in constant currencies). The constant currency increase was primarily due to strong comparable sales, partly offset by the impact of refranchising. In 2018, revenues decreased 8% (8% in constant currencies), reflecting the Company's strategic refranchising initiatives, partly offset by positive comparable sales. 

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 * Reflects the impact of refranchising the Company's businesses in China and Hong Kong in 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following tables present comparable sales, comparable guest counts and Systemwide sales increases/(decreases):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** The Company excludes sales from markets identified as hyper-inflationary (currently, only Venezuela) from the comparable sales calculation as the Company believes this more accurately reflects the underlying business trends. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*** Unlike comparable sales, the Company has not excluded hyper-inflationary market results (currently, only Venezuela) from Systemwide sales as these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records revenues. The difference between comparable sales growth rates and Systemwide sales growth rates are due to both restaurant expansion and the hyper-inflationary impact.

 McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 12

Franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, but are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base. The following table presents franchised sales and the related increases/(decreases):

 Franchised sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 * Reflects the impact of refranchising the Company's businesses in China and Hong Kong in 2017.

FRANCHISED MARGINS

Franchised margin dollars represent revenues from franchised restaurants less the Company’s costs associated with those restaurants, primarily occupancy costs (rent and depreciation). Franchised margin dollars represented about 85% of the combined restaurant margins in 2019 and 2018, and about 80% in 2017.

In 2019, franchised margin dollars increased $416 million or 5% (7% in constant currencies). In 2018, franchised margin dollars increased $727 million or 9% (8% in constant currencies). For both 2019 and 2018, the increases were due to positive comparable sales performance across all segments, as well as expansion and the impact of refranchising. 

Franchised margins

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The adoption of Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") Topic 842, "Leases" ("ASC 842") had no impact on franchised margin dollars, but had a negative impact on the Company's franchised margin percent for 2019 of approximately 1.3% in the U.S. and 0.7% on a consolidated basis. ASC 842 clarified the presentation of sub-lease income and lease expense, requiring the straight-line impact of fixed rent escalations to be presented on a gross basis in lease income and lease expense.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 13

COMPANY-OPERATED MARGINS

Company-operated margin dollars represent sales by Company-operated restaurants less the operating costs of these restaurants. In 2019, Company-operated margin dollars decreased $87 million or 5% (2% in constant currencies). In 2018, Company-operated margin dollars decreased $562 million or 24% (25% in constant currencies) primarily reflecting the Company's sale of its businesses in China and Hong Kong in 2017.

Company-operated margins

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

n/m Not meaningful[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•International Operated Markets: In 2019 and 2018, the increase in the Company-operated margin percent was primarily due to strong comparable sales partly offset by higher labor and occupancy & other costs. 

SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1% (3% in constant currencies) in 2019 and decreased 1% (2% in constant currencies) in 2018. The results for 2019 and 2018 reflected investments in technology and research & development. The decrease in 2018 also reflected lower employee-related costs, partly offset by costs related to the 2018 Worldwide Owner/Operator Convention and sponsorship of the 2018 Winter Olympics.

Selling, general & administrative expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Included in International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate are home office support costs in areas such as facilities, finance, human resources, information technology and R&D, legal, marketing, restaurant operations, supply chain and training.

(2)Includes all cash incentives and share-based compensation expense.

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of Systemwide sales was 2.2% in 2019, 2.3% in 2018 and 2.5% in 2017. Management believes that analyzing selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of Systemwide sales is meaningful because these costs are incurred to support the overall McDonald's business. 

 McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 14

OTHER OPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET

Other operating (income) expense, net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Gains on sales of restaurant businesses

In 2019, gains on sales of restaurant businesses decreased primarily due to fewer restaurant sales in the U.S.

•Impairment and other charges (gains), net

In 2019, impairment and other charges (gains), net primarily reflected $99.4 million of impairment associated with the purchase of our joint venture partner's interest in the India Delhi market. Impairment was recorded to reflect the write-down of net assets to fair value in accordance with accounting rules. This was partly offset by $20.3 million of gains on the sales of property at the former Corporate headquarters which were impaired in 2015 based on estimated fair values. 

The results in 2018 reflected $140 million of impairment charges due to the Company’s assessment of the recoverability of long-lived assets as well as the strategic restructuring charge in the U.S. of $85.0 million.

The results in 2017 reflected a gain on the Company's sale of its businesses in China and Hong Kong of $850 million, partly offset by $150 million of restructuring and impairment charges.

OPERATING INCOME

Operating income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Operating Income: Results for 2019 included $74 million of net impairment and strategic charges. Results for 2018 included $140 million of impairment charges and $94 million of strategic restructuring charges. Results for 2017 included a gain on the Company's sale of its businesses in China and Hong Kong of $850 million, partly offset by $150 million of restructuring and impairment charges. Excluding these current year and prior year items, operating income increased 1% (4% in constant currencies) for 2019 and increased 2% (2% in constant currencies) for 2018. 

•U.S.: Excluding the 2018 strategic restructuring charge of $85 million, operating income decreased 1% for 2019 and increased 2% for 2018. 2019 results reflected lower gains on sales of restaurant businesses, partly offset by higher franchised margin dollars. 2018 results reflected higher franchised margin dollars and lower G&A costs, partly offset by lower Company-operated margin dollars.

•International Operated Markets: In 2019 and 2018, the constant currency operating income increase was primarily due to sales-driven improvements in franchised margin dollars. 2018 results also reflected higher gains on sales of restaurant businesses in the U.K. and Australia compared to 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

INTEREST EXPENSE

Interest expense increased 14% (16% in constant currencies) and 7% (6% in constant currencies) in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Both periods reflected higher average debt balances. Interest expense in 2019 also reflected the impact of interest incurred on certain Euro denominated deposits due to the current interest rate environment, while 2018 results reflected lower average interest rates.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 15

NONOPERATING (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET

Nonoperating (income) expense, net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign currency and hedging activity includes net gains or losses on certain hedges that reduce the exposure to variability on certain intercompany foreign currency cash flow streams. 

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

In 2019, 2018 and 2017, the reported effective income tax rates were 24.9%, 24.2% and 39.4%, respectively.

The effective income tax rate for 2019 reflected $84 million of income tax benefit due to new regulations issued in the fourth quarter 2019 related to the Tax Act. Excluding the income tax benefit, the effective income tax rate was 25.9% for the year 2019. 

The effective income tax rate for 2018 reflected the final 2018 adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded in 2017 under the Tax Act of $75 million net tax cost. Excluding the 2018 impact of the Tax Act and impairment charges, the effective income tax rate was 22.9% for the year 2018.

Excluding these current year and prior year items, the lower effective income tax rate for 2018 primarily reflected a benefit from a change in tax reserves as a result of global audit progression, as well as lower tax costs in 2018 related to ongoing taxes under the Tax Act. 

Consolidated net deferred tax liabilities included tax assets, net of valuation allowance, of $5.3 billion in 2019 and $2.0 billion in 2018. Substantially all of the net tax assets are expected to be realized in the U.S. and other profitable markets. 

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Recently issued accounting standards are included on page 39 of this Form 10-K.

CASH FLOWS

The Company generates significant cash from its operations and has substantial credit availability and capacity to fund operating and discretionary spending such as capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividends and share repurchases. 

Cash provided by operations totaled $8.1 billion in 2019, an increase of $1.1 billion or 17%. Free cash flow was $5.7 billion in 2019, an increase of $1.5 billion or 36%. The Company’s free cash flow conversion rate was 95% in 2019 and 71% in 2018 (see reconciliation in Exhibit 12). Cash provided by operations increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable and lower income tax payments. In 2018, cash provided by operations totaled $7.0 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion or 25% compared with 2017, primarily due to lower tax payments.

Cash used for investing activities totaled $3.1 billion in 2019, an increase of $616 million compared with 2018. The increase was primarily due to the Company’s strategic acquisitions of a real estate entity, Dynamic Yield and Apprente, partly offset by lower capital expenditures. Cash used for investing activities totaled $2.5 billion in 2018, an increase of $3.0 billion compared with 2017. The increase was primarily due to lower proceeds from the sale of restaurant businesses in 2018 including the comparison to the proceeds received in 2017 associated with the sale of the Company's businesses in China and Hong Kong, as well as higher capital expenditures. 

Cash used for financing activities totaled $5.0 billion in 2019, a decrease of $955 million compared with 2018, primarily due to net debt activity. Cash used for financing activities totaled $5.9 billion in 2018, an increase of $639 million compared with 2017, primarily due to higher treasury stock purchases.

The Company’s cash and equivalents balance was $899 million and $866 million at year end 2019 and 2018, respectively. In addition to cash and equivalents on hand and cash provided by operations, the Company can meet short-term funding needs through its continued access to commercial paper borrowings and line of credit agreements.

RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 

In 2019, the Company opened 1,231 restaurants and closed 391 restaurants. In 2018, the Company opened 1,081 restaurants and closed 467 restaurants. 

Systemwide restaurants at year end 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Approximately 93% of the restaurants at year-end 2019 were franchised, including 95% in the U.S., 84% in International Operated Markets and 98% in the International Developmental Licensed Markets.

Capital expenditures decreased $348 million or 13% in 2019 primarily due to lower reinvestment in existing restaurants, partly offset by an increase in new restaurant openings that required the Company's capital. Capital expenditures increased $888 million or 48% in 2018, primarily due to reinvestment in existing restaurants (including investment in EOTF).

 McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 16

Capital expenditures 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Primarily corporate equipment and other office-related expenditures

New restaurant investments in all years were concentrated in markets with strong returns and/or opportunities for long-term growth. Average development costs vary widely by market depending on the types of restaurants built and the real estate and construction costs within each market. These costs, which include land, buildings and equipment, are managed through the use of optimally-sized restaurants, construction and design efficiencies, as well as leveraging the Company's global sourcing network and best practices. Although the Company is not responsible for all costs for every restaurant opened, total development costs for new traditional McDonald’s restaurants in the U.S. averaged approximately $4.0 million in 2019. 

The Company owned approximately 55% and 50% of the land for restaurants in its consolidated markets at year-end 2019 and 2018, respectively, and approximately 80% of the buildings for restaurants in its consolidated markets at year-end 2019 and 2018.

SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS 

In 2019, the Company returned approximately $8.6 billion to shareholders through a combination of shares repurchased and dividends paid, marking the achievement of the Company's targeted return of $25 billion for the three-year period ended 2019.

Shares repurchased and dividends 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In July 2017, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $15 billion of the Company's outstanding stock, with no specified expiration date. In 2019, approximately 25.0 million shares were repurchased for $5.0 billion, bringing total purchases under the program to approximately 74.5 million shares or $12.9 billion. In December 2019, the Company's Board of Directors terminated the 2017 program and replaced it with a new share repurchase program, effective January 1, 2020, that authorized the purchase of up to $15 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock with no specified expiration date.

The Company has paid dividends on its common stock for 44 consecutive years and has increased the dividend amount every year. The 2019 full year dividend of $4.73 per share reflects the quarterly dividend paid for each of the first three quarters of $1.16 per share, with an increase to $1.25 per share paid in the fourth quarter. This 8% increase in the quarterly dividend equates to a $5.00 per share annual dividend and reflects the Company’s confidence in the ongoing strength and reliability of its cash flow. As in the past, future dividend amounts will be considered after reviewing profitability expectations and financing needs, and will be declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors.

FINANCIAL POSITION AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

TOTAL ASSETS

Total assets increased $14.7 billion or 45% in 2019, primarily due to the addition of the Lease Right-of-Use Asset, Net, which was recorded upon adoption of ASC 842 effective January 1, 2019. Refer to the Lease Accounting section under Recent Accounting Pronouncements on page 39 for additional information on ASC 842. Net property and equipment increased $1.3 billion in 2019, primarily due to capital expenditures, partly offset by depreciation. Net property and equipment and the Lease Right-of-Use Asset, Net represented over 50% and approximately 30%, respectively, of total assets at year-end. Approximately 93% of total assets were in the U.S. and International Operated Markets at year-end 2019. 

FINANCING AND MARKET RISK

The Company generally borrows on a long-term basis and is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations. Debt obligations at December 31, 2019 totaled $34.2 billion, compared with $31.1 billion at December 31, 2018. The net increase in 2019 was primarily due to net long-term issuances of $2.5 billion.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 17

Debt highlights(1) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)All percentages are as of December 31, except for the weighted-average annual interest rate, which is for the year. See reconciliation in Exhibit 12.

(2)Based on debt obligations before the effects of fair value hedging adjustments and deferred debt costs. These effects are excluded as they have no impact on the obligation at maturity. See Debt Financing note to the consolidated financial statements.

(3)Includes the effect of interest rate swaps used to hedge debt.

Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s currently rate, with a stable outlook, the Company’s commercial paper A-2 and P-2, respectively; and its long-term debt BBB+ and Baa1, respectively. To access the debt capital markets, the Company relies on credit-rating agencies to assign short-term and long-term credit ratings. 

Certain of the Company’s debt obligations contain cross-acceleration provisions and restrictions on Company and subsidiary mortgages and the long-term debt of certain subsidiaries. There are no provisions in the Company’s debt obligations that would accelerate repayment of debt as a result of a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change in the Company’s business. In October 2016, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the borrowing of up to $15.0 billion of funds, of which $1.9 billion remained outstanding as of December 31, 2019. In December 2019, the Company's Board of Directors terminated the 2016 borrowing authority and authorized a new $15 billion of borrowing capacity with no specified expiration date. These borrowings may include (i) public or private offering of debt securities; (ii) direct borrowing from banks or other financial institutions; and (iii) other forms of indebtedness. In addition to debt securities available through a medium-term notes program registered with the SEC and a Global Medium-Term Notes program, the Company has $3.5 billion available under a committed line of credit agreement as well as authority to issue commercial paper in the U.S. and global markets (see Debt Financing note to the consolidated financial statements). In 2020, the Company plans to issue long-term debt to refinance $2.4 billion of maturing corporate debt. As of December 31, 2019, the Company's subsidiaries also had $242 million of borrowings outstanding, primarily under uncommitted foreign currency line of credit agreements.

The Company uses major capital markets, bank financings and derivatives to meet its financing requirements. The Company manages its debt portfolio in response to changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates by periodically retiring, redeeming and repurchasing debt, terminating swaps and using derivatives. The Company does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes. All swaps are over-the-counter instruments.

In managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the Company uses interest rate swaps and finances in the currencies in which assets are denominated. The Company uses foreign currency debt and derivatives to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with certain royalties, intercompany financings and long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. This reduces the impact of fluctuating foreign currencies on cash flows and shareholders’ equity. Total foreign currency-denominated debt was $12.9 billion and $11.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In addition, where practical, the Company’s restaurants purchase goods and services in local currencies resulting in natural hedges. See the Summary of significant accounting policies note to the consolidated financial statements related to financial instruments and hedging activities for additional information regarding the accounting impact and use of derivatives.

The Company does not have significant exposure to any individual counterparty and has master agreements that contain netting arrangements. Certain of these agreements also require each party to post collateral if credit ratings fall below, or aggregate exposures exceed, certain contractual limits. At December 31, 2019, the Company was required to post an immaterial amount of collateral due to negative fair value of certain derivative positions. The Company's counterparties were not required to post collateral on any derivative position, other than on hedges of certain of the Company’s supplemental benefit plan liabilities where the counterparties were required to post collateral on their liability positions.

The Company’s net asset exposure is diversified among a broad basket of currencies. The Company’s largest net asset exposures (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities) at year end were as follows:

Foreign currency net asset exposures

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 18

The Company prepared sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments to determine the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and the fair value of its financial instruments. The interest rate analysis assumed a one percentage point adverse change in interest rates on all financial instruments, but did not consider the effects of the reduced level of economic activity that could exist in such an environment. The foreign currency rate analysis assumed that each foreign currency rate would change by 10% in the same direction relative to the U.S. Dollar on all financial instruments; however, the analysis did not include the potential impact on revenues, local currency prices or the effect of fluctuating currencies on the Company’s anticipated foreign currency royalties and other payments received from the markets. Based on the results of these analyses of the Company’s financial instruments, neither a one percentage point adverse change in interest rates from 2019 levels nor a 10% adverse change in foreign currency rates from 2019 levels would materially affect the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or the fair value of its financial instruments.

LIQUIDITY 

The Company has significant operations outside the U.S. where we earn approximately 65% of our operating income. A significant portion of these historical earnings have been reinvested in foreign jurisdictions where the Company has made, and will continue to make, substantial investments to support the ongoing development and growth of our international operations.

The Company's cash and equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $425 million as of December 31, 2019. 

Consistent with prior years, we expect existing domestic cash and equivalents, domestic cash flows from operations, issuance of domestic debt, and repatriation of a portion of foreign earnings to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating, investing, and financing activities. We also continue to expect existing foreign cash and equivalents and foreign cash flows from operations to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating, investing and financing activities. 

In the future, should we require more capital to fund activities in the U.S. than is generated by our domestic operations and is available through the issuance of domestic debt, we could elect to repatriate a greater portion of future periods' earnings from foreign jurisdictions.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 

The Company has long-term contractual obligations primarily in the form of lease obligations (related to both Company-operated and franchised restaurants) and debt obligations. In addition, the Company has long-term revenue and cash flow streams that relate to its franchise arrangements. Minimum rent under franchise arrangements are based on the Company’s underlying investment in owned sites and parallel the Company’s underlying lease obligations and escalations on properties that are leased. The Company believes that control over the real estate enables it to achieve restaurant performance levels that are amongst the highest in the industry. Cash provided by operations (including cash provided by these franchise arrangements) along with the Company’s borrowing capacity and other sources of cash will be used to satisfy the obligations. The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations and their aggregate maturities as well as future minimum rent payments due to the Company under existing franchise arrangements as of December 31, 2019. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)For sites that have lease escalations tied to an index, future minimum payments reflect the current index adjustments through December 31, 2019. In addition, future minimum payments exclude option periods that have not yet been exercised.

(2)The maturities include reclassifications of short-term obligations to long-term obligations of $3.5 billion, as they are supported by a long-term line of credit agreement expiring in December 2023. Debt obligations do not include the impact of non-cash fair value hedging adjustments, deferred debt costs and accrued interest.

In the U.S., the Company maintains certain supplemental benefit plans that allow participants to (i) make tax-deferred contributions and (ii) receive Company-provided allocations that cannot be made under the qualified benefit plans because of Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") limitations. At December 31, 2019, total liabilities for the supplemental plans were $435 million. 

At December 31, 2019, total liabilities for gross unrecognized tax benefits were $1.4 billion. 

There are certain purchase commitments that are not recognized in the consolidated financial statements and are primarily related to construction, inventory, energy, marketing and other service related arrangements that occur in the normal course of business. Such commitments are generally shorter term in nature, will be funded from operating cash flows, and are not significant to the Company’s overall financial position.

The Company also has guaranteed certain other loans totaling approximately $75 million at December 31, 2019. These guarantees are contingent commitments generally issued by the Company to support borrowing arrangements of the System. At December 31, 2019, there was no carrying value for obligations under these guarantees in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 19

OTHER MATTERS

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates and judgments based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The Company reviews its financial reporting and disclosure practices and accounting policies quarterly to confirm that they provide accurate and transparent information relative to the current economic and business environment. The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies, the following involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity:

•Property and equipment

Property and equipment are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives based on management’s estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue (not to exceed lease term plus options for leased property). The useful lives are estimated based on historical experience with similar assets, taking into account anticipated technological or other changes. The Company periodically reviews these lives relative to physical factors, economic factors and industry trends. If there are changes in the planned use of property and equipment, or if technological changes occur more rapidly than anticipated, the useful lives assigned to these assets may need to be shortened, resulting in the accelerated recognition of depreciation and amortization expense or write-offs in future periods.

•Leasing Arrangements

The Company is the lessee in a significant real estate portfolio, primarily through ground leases (the Company leases the land and generally owns the building) and through improved leases (the Company leases the land and buildings). The Right of Use Asset and Lease Liability reflect the present value of the Company’s estimated future minimum lease payments over the lease term, which includes options that are reasonably assured of being exercised, discounted using a collateralized incremental borrowing rate.

Typically, renewal options are considered reasonably assured of being exercised if the associated asset lives of the building or leasehold improvements exceed that of the initial lease term, and the sales performance of the restaurant remains strong. Therefore, the Right of Use Asset and Lease Liability include an assumption on renewal options that have not yet been exercised by the Company.

As the rate implicit in each lease is not readily determinable, the Company uses an incremental borrowing rate to calculate the lease liability that represents an estimate of the interest rate the Company would incur to borrow on a collateralized basis over the term of a lease within a particular currency environment.

•Share-based compensation

The Company has a share-based compensation plan which authorizes the granting of various equity-based incentives including stock options and restricted stock units ("RSUs") to employees and nonemployee directors. The expense for these equity-based incentives is based on their fair value at date of grant and generally amortized over their vesting period. The Company estimates forfeitures when determining the amount of compensation costs to be recognized in each period.

The fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the date of grant using a closed-form pricing model. The pricing model requires assumptions, which impact the assumed fair value, including the expected life of the stock option, the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility of the Company’s stock over the expected life and the expected dividend yield. The Company uses historical data to determine these assumptions and if these assumptions change significantly for future grants, share-based compensation expense will fluctuate in future years. The fair value of each RSU granted is equal to the market price of the Company’s stock at date of grant, and prior to 2018 included a reduction for the present value of expected dividends over the vesting period. For performance-based RSUs, the Company includes a relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") modifier to determine the number of shares earned at the end of the performance period. The fair value of performance-based RSUs that include the TSR modifier is determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model.

•Long-lived assets impairment review

Long-lived assets (including goodwill) are reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In assessing the recoverability of the Company’s long-lived assets, the Company considers changes in economic conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. Estimates of future cash flows are highly subjective judgments based on the Company’s experience and knowledge of its operations. These estimates can be significantly impacted by many factors including changes in global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends. A key assumption impacting estimated future cash flows is the estimated change in comparable sales. If the Company’s estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record impairment charges. Based on the annual goodwill impairment test, conducted in the fourth quarter, the Company does not have any reporting units (defined as each individual market) with risk of material goodwill impairment.

•Litigation accruals 

In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims primarily related to competitors, customers, employees, franchisees, government agencies, intellectual property, shareholders and suppliers. The Company is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of accrual required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each matter. The required accrual may change in the future due to new developments in a particular matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. The Company does not believe that any such matter currently being reviewed will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

 McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 20

•Income taxes 

The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets if it is considered more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. While the Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax strategies, including the sale of appreciated assets, in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, if these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to adjust its valuation allowance. This could result in a charge to, or an increase in, income in the period such determination is made.

The Company operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. The Company records accruals for the estimated outcomes of these audits, and the accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. The most significant new developments in 2019 and 2018 are described below.

In 2019 and 2018, the Company increased the balance of unrecognized tax benefits by $96 million and $162 million, respectively. In both 2019 and 2018, there was audit progression in the U.S. federal and state audits, as well as multiple foreign tax jurisdictions. The Company has considered this new information in evaluating the unrecognized tax benefits and in certain situations, the Company changed its judgment on the measurement of the related unrecognized tax benefits. These changes have been reflected in the Unrecognized Tax Benefits table that is included in the Income Taxes footnote on page 50.

In 2015, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) issued a Revenue Agent Report (“RAR”) that included certain disagreed transfer pricing adjustments related to the Company’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2009 and 2010. Also in 2015, the Company filed a protest with the IRS related to these disagreed transfer pricing matters. During 2017, the Company received a response to its protest. In December 2018, the Company met with the IRS Appeals team and during 2019, the Company and the IRS Appeals team continued to have a dialogue regarding these disagreed transfer pricing matters. As of December 31, 2019, the Company does not yet have a signed closing agreement with the IRS related to the settlement of these issues. The Company expects resolution on these issues in 2020.

In 2017, the IRS completed its examination of the Company’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2011 and 2012. In 2018, the IRS issued a RAR for these years. As expected, the RAR included the same disagreed transfer pricing matters as the 2009 and 2010 RAR. Also in 2018, the Company filed a protest with the IRS related to these disagreed transfer pricing matters. The transfer pricing matters for 2011 and 2012 are being addressed along with the 2009 and 2010 transfer pricing matters as part of the 2009-2010 appeals process, such that resolution is expected in 2020. 

While the Company cannot predict the ultimate resolution of the aforementioned tax matters, we believe that the liabilities recorded are appropriate and adequate as determined in accordance with Topic 740 - Income Taxes of the ASC.

The Tax Act was enacted in the U.S. on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% and required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. In 2017, the Company recorded provisional amounts for certain enactment-date effects of the Tax Act by applying the guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118. In 2018, the Company recorded adjustments to the provisional amounts and completed its accounting for all of the enactment-date income tax effects of the Tax Act. 

SAB 118 measurement period 

At December 31, 2017, the Company had not completed its accounting for all of the enactment-date income tax effects of the Tax Act under ASC 740, Income Taxes, primarily for the following aspects: remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities, one-time transition tax, and its accounting position related to indefinite reinvestment of unremitted foreign earnings. 

One-time transition tax: The one-time transition tax is based on the Company's total post-1986 earnings and profits ("E&P"), the tax on which it previously deferred from U.S. income taxes under U.S. law. The Company recorded a provisional amount for its one-time transition tax liability for each of its foreign subsidiaries, resulting in a transition tax liability of approximately $1.2 billion at December 31, 2017. 

Upon further analysis of the Tax Act and notices and regulations issued and proposed by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Company finalized its calculations of the transition tax liability during 2018 and increased its December 31, 2017 provisional amount by approximately $75 million. The Company has elected to pay its transition tax over the eight-year period provided in the Tax Act. 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities: As of December 31, 2017, the Company remeasured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they were expected to reverse in the future (generally 21%), by recording a provisional amount of approximately $500 million. No adjustment to the provisional amount was made in 2018. 

EFFECTS OF CHANGING PRICES—INFLATION 

The Company has demonstrated an ability to manage inflationary cost increases effectively. This ability is because of rapid inventory turnover, the ability to adjust menu prices, cost controls and substantial property holdings, many of which are at fixed costs and partly financed by debt made less expensive by inflation.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 21

Other Key Information

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Represents treasury stock purchases as reflected in Shareholders' equity.

(2)Total assets increased from 2018 to 2019 primarily due to the Company's right-of-use asset recorded as a result of the adoption of ASC 842.

(3)While franchised sales are not recorded as revenues by the Company, management believes they are important in understanding the Company's financial performance because these sales are the basis on which the Company calculates and records franchised revenues and are indicative of the financial health of the franchisee base. Franchised restaurants represent 93% of McDonald's restaurants worldwide at December 31, 2019.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 22

STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH

At least annually, we consider which companies comprise a readily identifiable investment peer group. McDonald's is included in published restaurant indices; however, unlike most other companies included in these indices, which have no or limited international operations, McDonald's does business in more than 100 countries and a substantial portion of our revenues and income is generated outside the U.S. In addition, because of our size, McDonald's inclusion in those indices tends to skew the results. Therefore, we believe that such a comparison is not meaningful.

Our market capitalization, trading volume and importance in an industry that is vital to the U.S. economy have resulted in McDonald's inclusion in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) since 1985. Like McDonald's, many DJIA companies generate meaningful revenues and income outside the U.S. and some manage global brands. Thus, we believe that the use of the DJIA companies as the group for comparison purposes is appropriate.

The following performance graph shows McDonald's cumulative total shareholder returns (i.e., price appreciation and reinvestment of dividends) relative to the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index (S&P 500 Index) and to the DJIA companies for the five-year period ended December 31, 2019. The graph assumes that the value of an investment in McDonald's common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the DJIA companies (including McDonald's) was $100 at December 31, 2014. For the DJIA companies, returns are weighted for market capitalization as of the beginning of each period indicated. These returns may vary from those of the Dow Jones Industrial Average Index, which is not weighted by market capitalization, and may be composed of different companies during the period under consideration. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Source: S&P Capital IQ

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 23

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

MARKET INFORMATION AND DIVIDEND POLICY

The Company’s common stock trades under the symbol MCD and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the U.S. 

The number of shareholders of record and beneficial owners of the Company’s common stock as of January 31, 2020 was estimated to be 2,500,000.

Given the Company’s returns on incremental invested capital and significant cash provided by operations, management believes it is prudent to reinvest in the business to drive profitable growth and use excess cash flow to return cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The Company has paid dividends on common stock for 44 consecutive years through 2019 and has increased the dividend amount at least once every year. As in the past, future dividend amounts will be considered after reviewing profitability expectations and financing needs, and will be declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors.

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The following table presents information related to repurchases of common stock the Company made during the quarter ended December 31, 2019*:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Subject to applicable law, the Company may repurchase shares directly in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or pursuant to derivative instruments and plans complying with Rule 10b5-1, among other types of transactions and arrangements.

(1)On July 27, 2017, the Company's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program, effective July 28, 2017 ("2017 Program"), that authorized the purchase of up to $15 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock with no specified expiration date. On December 6, 2019, the Company's Board of Directors terminated the 2017 Program, effective December 31, 2019, and replaced it with a new share repurchase program, effective January 1, 2020 ("2020 Program"), that authorized the purchase of up to $15 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock with no specified expiration date. As of December 31, 2019, no further share repurchases may be made under the 2017 Program; future share repurchases will be made pursuant to the 2020 program. 

 McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 24

RISK FACTORS

If we do not successfully evolve and execute against our business strategies, including under the Velocity Growth Plan, we may not be able to increase operating income.

To drive operating income growth, our business strategies must be effective in maintaining and strengthening customer appeal, delivering sustainable guest count growth and driving a higher average check. Whether these strategies are successful depends mainly on our System’s ability to:

•Continue to innovate and differentiate the McDonald’s experience, including by preparing and serving our food in a way that balances value and convenience to our customers with profitability;

•Capitalize on our global scale, iconic brand and local market presence to enhance our ability to retain, regain and convert key customer groups;

•Utilize our organizational structure to build on our progress and execute against our business strategies;

•Integrate and augment our technology and digital initiatives, including mobile ordering and delivery;

•Identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of Systemwide restaurants;

•Operate restaurants with high service levels and optimal capacity while managing the increasing complexity of our restaurant operations, create efficiencies through innovative use of technology and complete Experience of the Future (“EOTF”), particularly in the U.S.; and

•Accelerate our existing strategies, including through growth opportunities, acquisitions, investments and partnerships.

If we are delayed or unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.

Our investments to enhance the customer experience, including through technology, may not generate the expected returns.

Our long-term business objectives depend on the successful Systemwide execution of our strategies. We continue to build upon our investments in technology and modernization, including in EOTF (which focuses on restaurant modernization), digital engagement and delivery, in order to transform the customer experience. As part of these investments, we are placing renewed emphasis on improving our service model and strengthening relationships with customers, in part through digital channels and loyalty initiatives, as well as mobile ordering and payment systems. We also continue to refine our delivery initiatives, including through growing awareness and trial, and to enhance our drive-thru technologies, which may not generate expected returns. If these initiatives are not well executed, or if we do not fully realize the intended benefits of these significant investments, our business results may suffer.

If we do not anticipate and address evolving consumer preferences and effectively execute our pricing, promotional and marketing plans, our business could suffer.

Our continued success depends on our System’s ability to retain, regain and convert customers. In order to do so, we need to anticipate and respond effectively to continuously shifting consumer demographics and trends in food sourcing, food preparation, food offerings and consumer preferences in the “informal eating out” (“IEO”) segment. If we are not able to predict, or quickly and effectively respond to, these changes, or our competitors predict or respond more effectively, our financial results could be adversely impacted.

Our ability to retain, regain and convert customers also depends on the impact of pricing, promotional and marketing plans across the System, and the ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly and effectively to evolving customer preferences, as well as shifting economic and competitive conditions. Existing or future pricing strategies, and the value proposition they represent, are expected to continue to be important components of our business strategy; however, they may not be successful in retaining, regaining and converting customers, or may not be as successful as the efforts of our competitors, and could negatively impact sales, guest counts and market share.

Additionally, we operate in a complex and costly advertising environment. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful in retaining, regaining and converting customers. Our success depends in part on whether the allocation of our advertising and marketing resources across different channels, including digital marketing, allows us to reach our customers effectively and efficiently. If the advertising and marketing programs are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales, guest counts and market share could decrease.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 25

Failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brand could have an adverse impact on our financial results.

To be successful in the future, we believe we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brand. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions. Those perceptions are affected by a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, the manner in which we source commodities and our general business practices. Consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly. For example, nutritional, health, environmental and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that affect the IEO segment or perceptions of our brand, generally or relative to available alternatives. Consumer perceptions may also be affected by adverse commentary from third parties, including through social media or conventional media outlets, regarding the quick-service category of the IEO segment, our brand, our operations, our suppliers, or our franchisees. If we are unsuccessful in addressing adverse commentary or perceptions, whether or not accurate, our brand and our financial results may suffer.

Additionally, the ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our sustainability initiatives, which require Systemwide coordination and alignment. We are working to manage any risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of any effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, and diminishing energy and water resources. These risks include any increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. These risks also include any increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them. These risks could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks.

If we are not effective in addressing social and environmental responsibility matters or achieving relevant sustainability goals, consumer trust in our brand may suffer. In particular, business incidents or practices, whether actual or perceived, that erode consumer trust or confidence, particularly if such incidents or practices receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results.

We face intense competition in our markets, which could hurt our business.

We compete primarily in the IEO segment, which is highly competitive. We also face sustained, intense competition from traditional, fast casual and other competitors, which may include many non-traditional market participants such as convenience stores, grocery stores and coffee shops. We expect our environment to continue to be highly competitive, and our results in any particular reporting period may be impacted by a contracting IEO segment or by new or continuing actions or product offerings of our competitors, which may have a short- or long-term impact on our results.

We compete on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. In particular, we believe our ability to compete successfully in the current market environment depends on our ability to improve existing products, successfully develop and introduce new products, price our products appropriately, deliver a relevant customer experience, manage the complexity of our restaurant operations, manage our investments in technology and modernization, and respond effectively to our competitors’ actions or offerings or to unforeseen disruptive actions. There can be no assurance these strategies will be effective, and some strategies may be effective at improving some metrics while adversely affecting other metrics, which could have the overall effect of harming our business.

Unfavorable general economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results.

Our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, which can vary significantly by market and can impact consumer disposable income levels and spending habits. Economic conditions can also be impacted by a variety of factors including hostilities, epidemics and actions taken by governments to manage national and international economic matters, whether through austerity, stimulus measures or trade measures, and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers. Sustained adverse economic conditions or periodic adverse changes in economic conditions in our markets could pressure our operating performance, and our business and financial results may suffer.

Our results of operations are also affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and unfavorable currency fluctuations could adversely affect reported earnings.

Supply chain interruptions may increase costs or reduce revenues.

We depend on the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient supply of quality products on favorable terms. Although many of the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers in countries around the world, certain products have limited suppliers, which may increase our reliance on those suppliers. Supply chain interruptions, including shortages and transportation issues, and price increases can adversely affect us as well as our suppliers and franchisees, whose performance may have a significant impact on our results. Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers, franchisees or us. If we experience interruptions in our System’s supply chain, our costs could increase and it could limit the availability of products critical to our System’s operations.

Food safety concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.

Our ability to increase sales and profits depends on our System’s ability to meet expectations for safe food and on our ability to manage the potential impact on McDonald’s of food-borne illnesses and food or product safety issues that may arise in the future, including in the supply chain, restaurants or delivery. Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe food products, including as our menu and service model evolve. However, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, occur within the food industry and our System from time to time and could occur in the future. Instances of food tampering, food contamination or food-borne illness, whether actual or perceived, could adversely affect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 26

Our franchise business model presents a number of risks.

The Company's success as a heavily franchised business relies to a large degree on the financial success and cooperation of our franchisees, including our developmental licensees and affiliates. Our restaurant margins arise from two sources: fees from franchised restaurants (e.g., rent and royalties based on a percentage of sales) and, to a lesser degree, sales from Company-operated restaurants. Our franchisees and developmental licensees manage their businesses independently, and therefore are responsible for the day-to-day operation of their restaurants. The revenues we realize from franchised restaurants are largely dependent on the ability of our franchisees to grow their sales. Business risks affecting our operations also affect our franchisees. If our franchisees do not experience sales growth, our revenues and margins could be negatively affected as a result. Also, if sales trends worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures, or delayed or reduced payments to us.

Our success also relies on the willingness and ability of our independent franchisees and affiliates to implement major initiatives, which may include financial investment, and to remain aligned with us on operating, value/promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. The ability of franchisees to contribute to the achievement of our plans is dependent in large part on the availability to them of funding at reasonable interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general, by the creditworthiness of our franchisees or the Company or by banks’ lending practices. If our franchisees are unwilling or unable to invest in major initiatives or are unable to obtain financing at commercially reasonable rates, or at all, our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected.

Our operating performance could also be negatively affected if our franchisees experience food safety or other operational problems or project an image inconsistent with our brand and values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subjected to litigation and potential delays. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our required standards, our brand’s image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results.

Our ownership mix also affects our results and financial condition. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex. The benefits of our more heavily franchised structure depend on various factors including whether we have effectively selected franchisees, licensees and/or affiliates that meet our rigorous standards, whether we are able to successfully integrate them into our structure and whether their performance and the resulting ownership mix supports our brand and financial objectives.

Challenges with respect to talent management could harm our business.

Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. The Board named Christopher Kempczinski as President and Chief Executive Officer and named Joseph Erlinger as President, McDonald's USA, effective as of November 1, 2019. In addition, on December 6, 2019, the Board named Ian Borden as President, International, effective that same day. Failure to effectively identify, develop and retain key personnel, recruit high-quality candidates and ensure smooth management and personnel transitions, including the recent leadership transitions, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results.

Challenges with respect to labor, including availability and cost, could impact our business and results of operations.

Our success depends in part on our System’s ability to proactively recruit, motivate and retain qualified individuals to work in McDonald's restaurants and to maintain appropriately-staffed restaurants in an intensely competitive environment. In many of our markets, unemployment is low and demand is high for labor. Increased costs associated with recruiting, motivating and retaining qualified employees to work in our Company-operated restaurants, as well as costs to promote awareness of the opportunities of working at McDonald's restaurants, could have a negative impact on our Company-operated margins. Similar concerns apply to our franchisees.

We are also impacted by the costs and other effects of compliance with U.S. and international regulations affecting our workforce, which includes our staff and employees working in our Company-operated restaurants. These regulations are increasingly focused on employment issues, including wage and hour, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and workplace practices. Claims of non-compliance with these regulations could result in liability and expense to us. Our potential exposure to reputational and other harm regarding our workplace practices or conditions or those of our independent franchisees or suppliers, including those giving rise to claims of sexual harassment or discrimination (or perceptions thereof) could have a negative impact on consumer perceptions of us and our business. Additionally, economic action, such as boycotts, protests, work stoppages or campaigns by labor organizations, could adversely affect us (including our ability to recruit and retain talent) or the franchisees and suppliers that are also part of the McDonald's System and whose performance may have a material impact on our results.

Information technology system failures or interruptions, or breaches of network security, may impact our operations or cause reputational harm.

We are increasingly reliant upon technology systems, such as point-of-sale, technologies supporting McDonald’s digital and delivery solutions, and technologies that facilitate communication and collaboration with affiliated entities, customers, employees, franchisees, suppliers, service providers or other independent third parties to conduct our business, whether developed and maintained by us or provided by third parties. Any failure or interruption of these systems could significantly impact our franchisees’ operations, or our customers’ experience and perceptions. Additionally, we provide certain technology systems to businesses that are unaffiliated with the McDonald’s System and a failure, interruption or breach of these systems may cause harm to those unaffiliated parties, which may result in liability to the Company or reputational harm.

Despite the implementation of security measures, those technology systems could become vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. Certain technology systems may also become vulnerable, unreliable or inefficient in cases where technology vendors limit or terminate product support and maintenance. Our increasing reliance on third party systems also present the risks faced by the third party’s business, including the operational, security and credit risks of those parties. If those systems were to fail or otherwise be unavailable, and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we could experience an interruption in our or our franchisees’ operations.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 27

Furthermore, security incidents or breaches have from time to time occurred and may in the future occur involving our systems, the systems of the parties we communicate or collaborate with (including franchisees), or those of third party providers. These may include such things as unauthorized access, phishing attacks, account takeovers, denial of service, computer viruses, introduction of malware or ransomware and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Our technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to us by our customers, our employees, our franchisees, our business customers and other third parties, as well as financial, proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. An actual or alleged security breach could result in disruptions, shutdowns, theft or unauthorized disclosure of personal, financial, proprietary or other confidential information. The occurrence of any of these incidents could result in reputational damage, adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, complications in executing our growth initiatives and regulatory and legal risk, including criminal penalties or civil liabilities.

If we fail to comply with privacy and data collection laws, we could be subject to penalties, which could negatively affect our financial results or brand perceptions.

We are subject to legal and compliance risks and associated liability related to privacy and data collection, protection and management, as it relates to information associated with our technology-related services and platforms made available to business partners, customers, employees, franchisees or other third parties. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) requires entities processing the personal data of individuals in the European Union to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of that data. We are also subject to U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations in this area. These regulations have been subject to frequent change, and there may be markets or jurisdictions that propose or enact new or emerging data privacy requirements in the future. Failure to meet GDPR or other data privacy requirements could result in substantial penalties and materially adversely impact our financial results or brand perceptions. 

The global scope of our business subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business.

We encounter differing cultural, regulatory, geopolitical and economic environments within and among the more than 100 countries where McDonald’s restaurants operate, and our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on the System's success in these environments. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment, and our global success is partially dependent on our System’s ability to leverage operating successes across markets and brand perceptions. Planned initiatives may not have appeal across multiple markets with McDonald's customers and could drive unanticipated changes in customer perceptions and guest counts.

Disruptions in operations or price volatility in a market can also result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or changes in trade-related tariffs or controls, sanctions and counter sanctions, government-mandated closure of our, our franchisees’ or our suppliers’ operations, and asset seizures. Trade policies, tariffs and other regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries could adversely affect our business and operations. These and other government actions may impact our results and could cause reputational or other harm. Our international success depends in part on the effectiveness of our strategies and brand-building initiatives to reduce our exposure to such governmental actions.

Additionally, challenges and uncertainties are associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest. Such challenges may be exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. An inability to manage effectively the risks associated with our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

We may also face challenges and uncertainties in developed markets. For example, as a result of the U.K.’s decision to leave the European Union, whether through a negotiated exit over a period of time or without any agreement in place to govern post-exit relations, it is possible that there will be increased regulatory complexities, particularly in the event that the U.K. leaves the European Union without any agreement in place, as well as potential additional referenda in the U.K. and/or other European countries, that could cause uncertainty in European or worldwide economic conditions. The decision created volatility in certain foreign currency exchange rates that may or may not continue, and may result in increased supply chain costs for items that are imported from other countries. Any of these effects, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

If we do not effectively manage our real estate portfolio, our operating results may be negatively impacted.

We have significant real estate operations, primarily in connection with our restaurant business. We generally own or secure a long-term lease on the land and building for conventional franchised and Company-operated restaurant sites. We seek to identify and develop restaurant locations that offer convenience to customers and long-term sales and profit potential. As we generally secure long-term real estate interests for our restaurants, we have limited flexibility to quickly alter our real estate portfolio. The competitive business landscape continues to evolve in light of changing business trends, consumer preferences, trade area demographics, consumer use of digital and delivery, local competitive positions and other economic factors. If our restaurants are not located in desirable locations, or if we do not evolve in response to these factors, it could adversely affect Systemwide sales and profitability. 

Our real estate values and the costs associated with our real estate operations are also impacted by a variety of other factors, including governmental regulations; insurance; zoning, tax and eminent domain laws; interest rate levels and the cost of financing. A significant change in real estate values, or an increase in costs as a result of any of these factors, could adversely affect our operating results. 

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 28

Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.

We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. In particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or policy or related authoritative interpretations. We are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by taxing and governmental authorities inside and outside of the U.S. in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. Any significant increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.

Changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations.

The profitability of our Company-operated restaurants depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs, including food, paper, supplies, fuel, utilities and distribution, and other operating costs, including labor. Any volatility in certain commodity prices or fluctuation in labor costs could adversely affect our operating results by impacting restaurant profitability. The commodity markets for some of the ingredients we use, such as beef and chicken, are particularly volatile due to factors such as seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulation, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances, unpredictable. We can only partially address future price risk through hedging and other activities, and therefore increases in commodity costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability.

Increasing regulatory and legal complexity may adversely affect our business and financial results.

Our regulatory and legal environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that could affect our operations and results in material ways. Many of our markets are subject to increasing, conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations involving, among other matters, product packaging, marketing, the nutritional and allergen content and safety of our food and other products, labeling and other disclosure practices. Compliance efforts with those regulations may be affected by ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers. Our success depends in part on our ability to manage the impact of regulations that can affect our business plans and operations, and have increased our costs of doing business and exposure to litigation, governmental investigations or other proceedings.

We are also subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings, government investigations and proceedings, shareholder proceedings, employment and personal injury claims, landlord/tenant disputes, supplier related disputes, and claims by current or former franchisees. Regardless of whether claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management's attention away from operations.

Litigation and regulatory action concerning our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for employment law purposes, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact our business operations and the business prospects of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. Similarly, although our commercial relationships with our suppliers remain independent, there may be attempts to challenge that independence, which, if determined adversely, could also increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our suppliers, and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. 

Our results could also be affected by the following:

•The relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings;

•The cost and other effects of settlements, judgments or consent decrees, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; and

•Adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices.

A judgment significantly in excess of any applicable insurance coverage or third party indemnity could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Further, adverse publicity resulting from claims may hurt our business. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory and legal environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual property of others, which could harm the value of the McDonald’s brand and our business.

The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products.

We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. The trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the U.S. in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. It may be costly and time consuming to protect our intellectual property, and the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the steps we have taken may not adequately ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others, and third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. In particular, we may be involved in intellectual property claims, including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems, which might affect our operations and results. Any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and harm our business.

We cannot ensure that franchisees and other third parties who hold licenses to our intellectual property will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 29

Changes in accounting standards or the recognition of impairment or other charges may adversely affect our future operations and results.

New accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could adversely affect our future results. We may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment or other charges that reduce our earnings. In assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. These estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, consumer and demographic trends, and our restructuring activities. If our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. If we experience any such changes, they could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results for the affected periods.

A decrease in our credit ratings or an increase in our funding costs could adversely affect our profitability. 

Our credit ratings may be negatively affected by our results of operations or changes in our debt levels. As a result, our interest expense, the availability of acceptable counterparties, our ability to obtain funding on favorable terms, collateral requirements and our operating or financial flexibility could all be negatively affected, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants.

Our operations may also be impacted by regulations affecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs. If any of these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.

Trading volatility and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected by many factors.

Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these factors, some of which are outside our control, are the following:

•The unpredictable nature of global economic and market conditions;

•Governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the U.S., which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic, trade or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business;

•Trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can be affected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence, driven in part by expectations about our performance; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which McDonald’s may be included, such as the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average;

•The impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and

•The impact on our results of corporate actions and market and third-party perceptions and assessments of such actions, such as those we may take from time to time as we implement our strategies, including through acquisitions, in light of changing business, legal and tax considerations and evolve our corporate structure.

Events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others, can adversely affect our results and prospects.

Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, any shifting climate patterns, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels and supply availability and costs, as well as the local operations in impacted markets, all of which can affect our results and prospects. For example, the recent outbreak of the coronavirus in China has disrupted local operations, and neither the duration nor scope of the disruption can be predicted. Therefore, while we expect this matter to negatively impact our results, the related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to some of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to cover our losses fully.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 30

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company has pending a number of lawsuits that have been filed in various jurisdictions. These lawsuits cover a broad variety of allegations spanning the Company’s entire business. The following is a brief description of the more significant types of claims and lawsuits. In addition, the Company is subject to various national and local laws and regulations that impact various aspects of its business, as discussed below. While the Company does not believe that any such claims, lawsuits or regulations will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations, unfavorable rulings could occur. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on net income for the period in which the ruling occurs or for future periods.

▪Franchising

A substantial number of McDonald’s restaurants are franchised to independent owner/operators and developmental licensees under contractual arrangements with the Company. In the course of the franchise relationship, occasional disputes arise between the Company and its current or former franchisees relating to a broad range of subjects including, but not limited to, quality, service and cleanliness issues, menu pricing, contentions regarding grants or terminations of franchises, delinquent payments of rents and fees, and franchisee claims for additional franchises or renewals of franchises. Additionally, occasional disputes arise between the Company and individuals who claim they should have been granted a McDonald’s franchise or who challenge the legal distinction between the Company and its franchisees for employment law purposes.

▪Suppliers 

The Company and its affiliates and subsidiaries generally do not supply food, paper or related items to any McDonald’s restaurants. The Company relies upon numerous independent suppliers, including service providers, that are required to meet and maintain the Company’s high standards and specifications. On occasion, disputes arise between the Company and its suppliers (or former suppliers) which include, for example, compliance with product specifications and the Company’s business relationship with suppliers. In addition, disputes occasionally arise on a number of issues between the Company and individuals or entities who claim that they should be (or should have been) granted the opportunity to supply products or services to the Company’s restaurants.

▪Employees

Hundreds of thousands of people are employed by the Company and in restaurants owned and operated by subsidiaries of the Company. In addition, thousands of people from time to time seek employment in such restaurants. In the ordinary course of business, disputes arise regarding hiring, termination, promotion and pay practices, including wage and hour disputes, alleged discrimination and compliance with labor and employment laws.

▪Customers

Restaurants owned by subsidiaries of the Company regularly serve a broad segment of the public as do independent owner/operators and developmental licensees of McDonald's restaurants. In so doing, disputes arise as to products, service, incidents, pricing, advertising, nutritional and other disclosures, as well as other matters common to an extensive restaurant business such as that of the Company.

▪Intellectual Property

The Company has registered trademarks and service marks, patents and copyrights, some of which are of material importance to the Company’s business. From time to time, the Company may become involved in litigation to protect its intellectual property and defend against the alleged use of third party intellectual property. 

▪Government Regulations

Local and national governments have adopted laws and regulations involving various aspects of the restaurant business including, but not limited to, advertising, franchising, health, safety, environment, competition, zoning, employment and taxation. The Company is occasionally involved in litigation or other proceedings regarding these matters. The Company strives to comply with all applicable existing statutory and administrative rules and cannot predict the effect on its operations from these matters or the issuance of additional requirements in the future.

PROPERTIES

The Company owns and leases real estate primarily in connection with its restaurant business. The Company identifies and develops sites that offer convenience to customers and long-term sales and profit potential to the System. To assess potential, the Company analyzes traffic and walking patterns, census data and other relevant data. The Company’s experience and access to advanced technology aid in evaluating this information. The Company generally owns or secures a long-term lease on the land and building for conventional franchised and Company-operated restaurant sites, which facilitates long-term occupancy rights and helps control related costs. Restaurant profitability for both the Company and franchisees is important; therefore, ongoing efforts are made to control average development costs through construction and design efficiencies, standardization and by leveraging the Company’s global sourcing network.

In addition, the Company primarily leases real estate in connection with its corporate headquarters, field and other offices.

Additional information about the Company’s properties is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 6 through 21 and in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on pages 33 through 58 of this Form 10-K.

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 31

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following are the Executive Officers of our Company (as of the date of this filing):

Ian Borden, 51, is President, International, a position he has held since January 2020. Prior to that, Mr. Borden served as President - International Developmental Licensed Markets, from January 2019 through December 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Borden served as President - Foundational Markets, from July 2015 through December 2018. From January 2014 through June 2015, Mr. Borden served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - McDonald’s Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa. Prior to that time, Mr. Borden served as Regional Vice President of Europe’s East Division from April 2011 to December 2013 and as Managing Director - McDonald’s Ukraine from December 2007 to December 2013. He has served the Company for 25 years.

Francesca A. DeBiase, 54, is Corporate Executive Vice President - Worldwide Supply Chain and Sustainability, a position she has held since April 2018. Prior to that, Ms. DeBiase served as Corporate Senior Vice President - Worldwide Supply Chain and Sustainability, from March 2015 through March 2018. From August 2007 through February 2015, Ms. DeBiase served as Corporate Vice President - Worldwide Strategic Sourcing. Prior to that, Ms. DeBiase served as Europe Vice President - Supply Chain, from January 2006 through July 2007. Ms. DeBiase has served the Company for 28 years.

Joseph Erlinger, 46, is President, McDonald's USA, a position he has held since November 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Erlinger served as President - International Operated Markets, from January 2019 through October 2019 and President - High Growth Markets, from September 2016 through December 2018. From March 2015 to January 2017, Mr. Erlinger served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer - High Growth Markets (serving in dual roles from September 2016 through January 2017), as Managing Director of McDonald’s Korea from April 2013 to January 2016 (serving in dual roles from March 2015 through January 2016), and US Vice President - GM for the Indianapolis region from December 2010 to March 2013. Mr. Erlinger has served the Company for 18 years.

Daniel Henry, 49, is Corporate Executive Vice President - Chief Information Officer, a position he has held since May 2018. From October 2017 through April 2018, Mr. Henry served as Corporate Vice President - Chief Information Officer. Prior to that, Mr. Henry served as Vice President of Customer Technology and Enterprise Architecture at American Airlines from April 2012 to October 2017. Mr. Henry has served the Company for 2 years.

Catherine Hoovel, 49, is Corporate Vice President - Chief Accounting Officer, a position she has held since October 2016. Ms. Hoovel served as Controller for the McDonald's restaurants owned and operated by McDonald's USA from April 2014 to September 2016. Prior to that time, Ms. Hoovel served as a Senior Director of Finance from February 2012 to April 2014 and was a Divisional Director from August 2010 to February 2012. Ms. Hoovel has served the Company for 24 years.

Christopher Kempczinski, 51, is President and Chief Executive Officer, a position he has held since November 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Kempczinski served as President, McDonald’s USA from December 2016 through October 2019 and Corporate Executive Vice President - Strategy, Business Development and Innovation, from October 2015 through December 2016. Mr. Kempczinski joined the Company from Kraft Heinz, a manufacturer and marketer of food and beverage products, where he most recently served as Executive Vice President of Growth Initiatives and President of Kraft International from December 2014 to September 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Kempczinski served as President of Kraft Canada from July 2012 through December 2014 and as Senior Vice President - U.S. Grocery from December 2008 to July 2012. Mr. Kempczinski has served the Company for 4 years.

Jerome Krulewitch, 55, is Corporate Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, a position he has held since March 2017. From May 2011 until March 2017, Mr. Krulewitch served as Corporate Senior Vice President - Chief Counsel, Global Operations. Prior to that, Mr. Krulewitch was Corporate Senior Vice President - General Counsel, The Americas from September 2010 to April 2011. Mr. Krulewitch has served the Company for 18 years. 

Kevin Ozan, 56, is Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held since March 2015. From February 2008 through February 2015, Mr. Ozan served as Corporate Senior Vice President - Controller. Mr. Ozan has served the Company for 22 years. 

 McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 32

AVAILABILITY OF COMPANY INFORMATION

The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). The Company therefore files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports may be obtained by visiting the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. 

Financial and other information can also be accessed on the investor section of the Company’s website at www.investor.mcdonalds.com. The Company uses this website as a primary channel for disclosing key information to its investors, some of which may contain material and previously non-public information. The Company makes available, free of charge, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies of financial and other information are also available free of charge by calling (800) 228-9623. 

Also posted on McDonald’s website are the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles; the charters for each of the Committees of the Board of Directors, including the Audit and Finance Committee, Compensation Committee, Governance Committee, Public Policy and Strategy Committee and Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee; the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors; and the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct, which applies to all officers and employees. Copies of these documents are also available free of charge by calling (800) 228-9623. 

Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or the Company’s other securities filings unless expressly noted. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

McDonald's Corporation 2019 Annual Report 33

Consolidated Statement of Income