Part I

Item 1. Business.

General Development of Business 

▪General: Altria Group, Inc. (“Altria”) is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985. At December 31, 2019, Altria’s wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes in the United States; John Middleton Co. (“Middleton”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA; Sherman Group Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries (“Nat Sherman”), which are engaged in the manufacture and sale of super premium cigarettes and the sale of premium cigars; UST LLC (“UST”), which through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC (“USSTC”) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. (“Ste. Michelle”), is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless tobacco products and wine; and Philip Morris Capital Corporation (“PMCC”), which maintains a portfolio of finance assets, substantially all of which are leveraged leases. As discussed below, Altria also owns an 80% interest in Helix Innovations LLC (“Helix”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of on! oral nicotine pouches. In December 2018, Altria refocused its innovative product efforts, which included the discontinuation of production and distribution of all e-vapor products by Nu Mark LLC (“Nu Mark”). Prior to that time, Nu Mark was engaged in the manufacture and sale of innovative tobacco products. Other Altria wholly-owned subsidiaries included Altria Group Distribution Company, which provides sales and distribution services to certain Altria operating subsidiaries, and Altria Client Services LLC (“ALCS”), which provides various support services in areas such as legal, regulatory, consumer engagement, finance, human resources and external affairs to Altria and its subsidiaries. 

In January 2017, Altria acquired Nat Sherman, which joined PM USA and Middleton as part of Altria’s smokeable products segment.

During the third quarter of 2019, Helix acquired Burger Söhne Holding and its subsidiaries as well as certain affiliated companies (the “Burger Group”) that are engaged in the manufacture and sale of on! oral nicotine pouches. At closing, Altria indirectly owned an 80% interest in Helix, for which Altria paid $353 million in the third quarter of 2019. The financial results of Helix are included in Altria’s consolidated financial statements as part of its smokeless products segment, with the 20% minority ownership interest in Helix (held by the former shareholders of the Burger Group) included as a noncontrolling interest. 

Altria’s reportable segments are smokeable products, smokeless products and wine. The financial services and the innovative tobacco products businesses are included in an all other category due to the continued reduction of the lease portfolio of PMCC and the relative financial contribution of Altria’s innovative tobacco products businesses to Altria’s consolidated results. For further information, see Note 16. Segment Reporting to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Item 8”).

At September 30, 2016, Altria had an approximate 27% ownership of SABMiller plc (“SABMiller”), which Altria accounted for under the equity method of accounting. In October 2016, Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV completed its business combination with SABMiller, and Altria received cash and shares representing a 9.6% ownership in the combined company (the “ABI Transaction”). The newly formed Belgian company, which retained the name Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (“ABI”), became the holding company for the combined businesses. Subsequently, Altria purchased approximately 12 million ordinary shares of ABI, increasing Altria’s ownership to approximately 10.2% at December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2019, Altria had a 10.1% ownership in ABI, which Altria accounts for under the equity method of accounting using a one-quarter lag. 

In December 2018, Altria, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, purchased shares of non-voting convertible common stock of JUUL Labs, Inc. (“JUUL”), representing a 35% economic interest. JUUL is engaged in the manufacture and sale of e-vapor products globally and is the U.S. leader in e-vapor. At December 31, 2019, Altria had a 35% economic interest in JUUL, which it accounts for as an investment in an equity security. 

In March 2019, Altria, through a subsidiary, completed its acquisition of a 45% economic and voting interest in Cronos Group Inc. (“Cronos”), a global cannabinoid company headquartered in Toronto, Canada. At December 31, 2019, Altria had a 45% economic and voting interest in Cronos, which Altria accounts for under the equity method of accounting using a one-quarter lag. 

For further discussion of Altria’s investments in equity securities, see Note 7. Investments in Equity Securities to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 7”).

▪Source of Funds: Because Altria is a holding company, its access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries. In addition, Altria receives cash dividends on its interest in ABI and will continue to do so as long as ABI pays dividends.

Narrative Description of Business 

Portions of the information called for by this Item are included in Operating Results by Business Segment in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Item 7”).

1
Tobacco Space

Altria’s tobacco operating companies include PM USA, USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST, Middleton, Nat Sherman and Helix. Altria Group Distribution Company provides sales and distribution services to Altria’s tobacco operating companies. 

The products of Altria’s tobacco subsidiaries include (i) smokeable tobacco products, consisting of combustible cigarettes manufactured and sold by PM USA and Nat Sherman, machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco manufactured and sold by Middleton and premium cigars sold by Nat Sherman; and (ii) smokeless tobacco products, consisting of moist smokeless tobacco (“MST”) and snus products manufactured and sold by USSTC, and oral nicotine pouches manufactured and sold by Helix.

▪Cigarettes:  PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the United States. Marlboro, the principal cigarette brand of PM USA, has been the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States for the past 45 years. Nat Sherman sells substantially all of its super premium cigarettes in the United States. Total smokeable products segment’s cigarettes shipment volume in the United States was 101.8 billion units in 2019, a decrease of 7.3% from 2018. 

▪Cigars: Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Middleton contracts with a third-party importer to supply a majority of its cigars and sells substantially all of its cigars to customers in the United States. Black & Mild is the principal cigar brand of Middleton. Nat Sherman sources all of its cigars from third-party suppliers and sells substantially all of its cigars to customers in the United States. Total smokeable products segment’s cigars shipment volume was approximately 1.7 billion units in 2019, an increase of 3.1% from 2018. 

▪Smokeless tobacco products:  USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of MST products. The smokeless products segment includes the premium brands, Copenhagen and Skoal, and value brands, Red Seal and Husky, sold by USSTC. In addition, the smokeless products segment includes on! oral nicotine pouches sold by Helix. Substantially all of the smokeless tobacco products are manufactured and sold to customers in the United States. Total smokeless products segment’s shipment volume was 807.0 million units in 2019, a decrease of 3.1% from 2018.

▪Innovative tobacco products: In December 2013, Altria’s subsidiaries entered into a series of agreements with Philip Morris International Inc. (“PMI”), including an agreement that grants Altria an exclusive right to commercialize certain of PMI’s heated tobacco products in the United States, subject to the United States Food and Drug Administration’s (“FDA”) authorization of the applicable products. PMI submitted a pre-market tobacco product application (“PMTA”) and modified risk tobacco product application with the FDA for its electronically heated tobacco product, IQOS. In April 2019, the FDA authorized the PMTA for IQOS, which PM USA currently sells in limited U.S. markets.

In December 2018, Altria refocused its innovative product efforts, which included the discontinuation of production and distribution of all e-vapor products by Nu Mark. Prior to that time, Nu Mark was engaged in the manufacture and sale of innovative tobacco products. 

▪Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:  Altria’s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including distributors) and large retail organizations, including chain stores.

The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions, product promotions, coupons and other discounts. 

The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (“FSPTCA”) provides the FDA with broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco products; the authority to require disclosures of related information; and the authority to enforce the FSPTCA and related regulations. The FSPTCA went into effect in 2009 for cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products and in August 2016 for all other tobacco products, including cigars, e-vapor products, pipe tobacco and oral nicotine products (“Other Tobacco Products”). The FSPTCA imposes restrictions on the advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco products, including at retail. PM USA, Middleton, Nat Sherman and USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees as a result of the FSPTCA. Their respective FDA user fee amounts are determined by an allocation formula administered by the FDA that is based on the respective market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. PM USA, Nat Sherman, USSTC and other U.S. tobacco manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions. For further discussion of these restrictions, see Tobacco Space - Business Environment in Item 7.

In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases the majority of its burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos directly from domestic tobacco growers. Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts that meets PM USA’s grade and quality standards. PM USA also purchases a portion of its tobacco requirements through leaf merchants. 

Nat Sherman purchases its tobacco requirements through leaf merchants.

USSTC purchases dark fire-cured, dark air-cured and burley leaf tobaccos from domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf merchants. 

2
Middleton purchases burley, dark air-cured and flue-cured leaf tobaccos through leaf merchants. Middleton does not have a contract growing program.

Altria’s tobacco subsidiaries believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements. See Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Item 1A”) and Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Price, Availability and Quality of Tobacco, Other Raw Materials and Component Parts in Item 7 for a discussion of risks associated with tobacco supply. 

Wine

Ste. Michelle is a producer and supplier of premium varietal and blended table wines and of sparkling wines. Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily Chateau Ste. Michelle and 14 Hands, and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other domestic and foreign wine regions. Ste. Michelle’s total 2019 wine shipment volume of approximately 8.3 million cases increased 0.6% from 2018. 

Ste. Michelle holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns Stag’s Leap Wine Cellars in Napa Valley. Ste. Michelle also owns Conn Creek in Napa Valley, Patz & Hall in Sonoma and Erath in Oregon. In addition, Ste. Michelle imports and markets Antinori and Villa Maria Estate wines and Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte in the United States. 

▪Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:  Key elements of Ste. Michelle’s strategy are expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers, and a focus on improving product mix to higher-priced, premium products. 

Ste. Michelle’s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers. Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising. Substantially all of Ste. Michelle’s sales occur in the United States through state-licensed distributors. Ste. Michelle also sells to domestic consumers through retail and e-commerce channels and exports wines to international distributors.

Adult consumer preferences among alcohol categories and within the wine category can shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in taste preferences, demographics or social trends, and changes in leisure, dining and beverage consumption patterns. Evolving adult consumer preferences pose challenges to the wine category, which has seen slowing volume growth in the premium wine category and increases in inventory levels.

Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the beverage alcohol industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing rules, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages could have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle’s wine business.

Ste. Michelle uses grapes harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources. Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production. At the present time, Ste. Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current and expected production requirements. See Item 1A for a discussion of risks associated with competition, consumer preferences, unfavorable changes in grape supply and governmental regulations. 

Financial Services Business

In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize its operating results and cash flows from its existing lease portfolio activities and asset sales. 

Other Matters

▪Customers:  The largest customer of PM USA, USSTC, Helix, Middleton and Nat Sherman, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 25%, 27% and 26% of Altria’s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In addition, Core-Mark Holding Company, Inc. accounted for approximately 15%, 14% and 14% of Altria’s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Substantially all of these net revenues were reported in the smokeable products and smokeless products segments. 

Sales to two distributors accounted for approximately 67% and 64% of net revenues for the wine segment for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Sales to three distributors accounted for approximately 67% of net revenues for the wine segment for the year ended December 31, 2017. 

▪Employees: At December 31, 2019, Altria and its subsidiaries employed approximately 7,300 people. 

▪Executive Officers of Altria: The disclosure regarding executive officers is included in Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance - Information about Our Executive Officers as of February 14, 2020 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

3
▪Intellectual Property: Trademarks are of material importance to Altria and its operating companies, and are protected by registration or otherwise. In addition, as of December 31, 2019, the portfolio of approximately 1,150 United States patents owned by Altria’s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria and its tobacco businesses. However, no one patent or group of related patents was material to Altria’s business or its tobacco businesses as of December 31, 2019. Altria’s businesses also have proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are protected by appropriate confidentiality measures. Certain trade secrets are material to Altria and its tobacco and wine businesses.

▪Environmental Regulation:  Altria and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States: The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as “Superfund”), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party. Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations. Altria’s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations. As discussed in Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 2”), Altria provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria may undertake in the future. In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria’s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows.

Available Information 

Altria is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 

Altria makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after Altria electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Investors can access Altria’s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings. 

The information on the respective websites of Altria and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings Altria makes with the SEC.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.