Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the information under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and the other financial information found elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements that involve certain risks and uncertainties. See “Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” (immediately prior to Part I) and Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Each of our two reportable operating segments are organized by geographic location and managed according to the nature of the products and services offered.

•United States – explores for, produces and markets crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas in the United States;

•International – explores for, produces and markets crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas outside of the United States and produces and markets products manufactured from natural gas, such as LNG and methanol, in E.G.

Executive Overview

 We are an independent exploration and production company based in Houston, Texas. Our strategy is to deliver competitive and improving corporate level returns by focusing our capital investment in the lower cost, higher margin U.S. resource plays (the Eagle Ford in Texas, the Bakken in North Dakota, STACK and SCOOP in Oklahoma and Northern Delaware in New Mexico). We will continue to be guided by maintaining a strong balance sheet, prioritizing sustainable cash flow over a wide range of commodity prices and returning capital to shareholders. 

Key 2019 highlights include:

Simplifying and concentrating our portfolio

•In the first quarter of 2019, we closed the sale of our working interest in the Droshky field (Gulf of Mexico) for a pre-tax gain of $42 million.

•In the second quarter of 2019, we closed on the sale of our 15% non-operated interest in the Atrush block in Kurdistan for proceeds of $63 million, before closing adjustments. 

•In July 2019, we closed on the sale of our U.K. business for proceeds of approximately $95 million, reflecting the assumption by the buyer of working capital and cash equivalent balances, asset retirement obligations of $966 million, as well as pension obligations. 

•In the third quarter of 2019, we secured a 25% non-operated working interest partner in our Louisiana Austin Chalk acreage. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Strengthened balance sheet and liquidity[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•During the fourth quarter 2019, completed three leverage neutral finance transactions that extend maturities, generate annual cash cost savings, and reflect our commitment to maintaining a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit ratings at all primary rating agencies.

Financial and operational results[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28

increased net sales volumes in the U.S. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outlook 

Capital Budget 

On February 12, 2020, we announced our total 2020 Capital Budget of $2.4 billion, which includes $2.2 billion of development capital and $200 million to fund REx. Our 2020 development capital budget is weighted towards the four U.S. resource plays with approximately 70% allocated to the Eagle Ford and Bakken and the remaining allocated between the Northern Delaware and Oklahoma.

Our 2020 Capital Budget is broken down by reportable segment in the table below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes approximately $200 million of spend to fund REx.

(b) International and corporate other includes our International segment and other corporate items.

Operations 

Net sales volumes increased by 8% in 2019 in the U.S. segment with new wells to sales across the U.S. resource plays. The International segment had lower net sales volumes in 2019 as a result of dispositions and natural decline in E.G. The following table presents a summary of our sales volumes for each of our segments (refer to the Results of Operations section for a price-volume analysis for each of the segments).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)  We closed on the sale of our Libya subsidiary in the first quarter of 2018, our interest in the Atrush block in Kurdistan in the second quarter of 2019 and our U.K. business in the third quarter of 2019. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on dispositions.

29

United States 

Net sales volumes in the segment were higher during the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of new wells to sales in our U.S. resource plays. The following tables provide additional details regarding net sales volumes, sales mix and operational drilling activity for our significant operations within this segment: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

International 

 Net sales volumes in the segment were lower during the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to E.G. planned maintenance activities and natural field decline, coupled with the dispositions of our U.K. business and our non-operated interest in the Atrush block in Kurdistan. The following table provides details regarding net sales volumes for our significant operations within this segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)  Includes natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•United Kingdom – During 2019, we closed on the sale of our U.K. business. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 

•Libya – During the first quarter of 2018, we closed on the sale of our subsidiary in Libya. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 

•Equity Method Investees – Net sales volumes in 2019 are tied to the volumes in Equatorial Guinea which were lower in the current year as noted above.

Market Conditions

Crude oil and condensate and NGLs benchmarks decreased in 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018. As a result, we experienced decreased price realizations associated with those benchmarks. We continue to expect crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas benchmark prices to remain volatile based on global supply and demand, which will result in increases or decreases in our price realizations during 2020. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition – Critical Accounting Estimates for further discussion of how declines in these commodity prices could impact us. 

31

United States 

 The following table presents our average price realizations and the related benchmarks for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas for 2019, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Excludes gains or losses on commodity derivative instruments.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) Inclusion of realized gains (losses) on natural gas derivative instruments would have a minimal impact on average price realizations for the periods presented.

(d) Benchmark change due to industry shift to MEH in the first quarter of 2019.

(e) Bloomberg Finance LLP: Y-grade Mix NGL of 55% ethane, 25% propane, 5% butane, 8% isobutane and 7% natural gasoline.

Crude oil and condensate – Price realizations may differ from benchmarks due to the quality and location of the product. 

Natural gas liquids – The majority of our sales volumes are at reference to Mont Belvieu prices. 

Natural gas – A significant portion of volumes are sold at bid-week prices, or first-of-month indices relative to our producing areas. 

International 

The following table presents our average price realizations and the related benchmark for crude oil for 2019, 2018 and 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Average of monthly prices obtained from the United States Energy Information Agency website.

United Kingdom

Crude oil and condensate – Generally sold in relation to the Brent crude benchmark. We closed on the sale of our U.K. business on July 1, 2019.

Equatorial Guinea

Crude oil and condensate – Alba Field liquids production is primarily condensate and generally sold in relation to the Brent crude benchmark. Alba Plant LLC processes the rich hydrocarbon gas which is supplied by the Alba Field under a 

32

fixed-price long term contract. Alba Plant LLC extracts NGLs and secondary condensate which is then sold by Alba Plant LLC at market prices, with our share of the revenue reflected in income from equity method investments on the consolidated statements of income. Alba Plant LLC delivers the processed dry natural gas to the Alba Field for distribution and sale to AMPCO and EG LNG.

Natural gas liquids – Wet gas is sold to Alba Plant LLC at a fixed-price term contract resulting in realized prices not tracking market price. Alba Plant LLC extracts and keeps NGLs, which are sold at market price, with our share of income from Alba Plant LLC being reflected in the income from equity method investments on the consolidated statements of income.

Natural gas – Dry natural gas, processed by Alba Plant LLC on behalf of the Alba Field, is sold by the Alba Field to EG LNG and AMPCO at fixed-price long term contracts resulting in realized prices not tracking market price. We derive additional value from the equity investment in our downstream gas processing units EG LNG and AMPCO. EG LNG sells LNG on a market-based long term contract and AMPCO markets methanol at market prices.

Consolidated Results of Operations: 2019 compared to 2018 

Revenues from contracts with customers are presented by segment in the table below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Below is a price/volume analysis for each segment. Refer to the preceding Operations and Market Conditions sections for additional detail related to our net sales volumes and average price realizations. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net loss on commodity derivatives increased $58 million in 2019 from 2018. We have multiple crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts indexed to NYMEX WTI and Henry Hub. We record commodity derivative gains/losses as the respective index pricing and forward curves change each period. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Income from equity method investments decreased $138 million as a result of lower price realizations and lower net sales volumes due to the 2019 triennial turnaround in E.G. and natural decline of the Alba field which resulted in lower net sales volumes for equity method investments.

Net gain on disposal of assets decreased $269 million in 2019 from 2018. This decrease was primarily related to the 2018 sale of our Libya subsidiary for a pre-tax gain of $255 million. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for information about these dispositions.

33

Other income decreased $88 million in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to the 2018 reduction of our U.K. asset retirement obligation, versus the 2019 indemnification of certain tax liabilities in connection with the closure of the 2010-2011 Federal Tax Audit with the IRS. This indemnity relates to tax and interest allocable to MPC as a result of the IRS Audit in accordance with the Tax Sharing Agreement. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for detail about our asset retirement obligation. 

Production expenses decreased $130 million during 2019 from 2018. The International segment decreased $89 million primarily due to dispositions, which included the sale of our U.K. business on July 1, 2019. Our United States segment decreased $37 million primarily due to reduced water hauling costs with more water on pipe in the Northern Delaware and non-core asset dispositions in the Gulf of Mexico during 2018, slightly offset by increased water handling in Bakken due to more producing wells in 2019 than in 2018. 

The production expense rate (per boe) declined during 2019 in the United States as a result of continued focus on cost reduction as well as higher net sales volumes. 

The following table provides production expense and production expense rates for each segment: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Shipping, handling and other operating expenses increased $30 million in 2019 from 2018 primarily as a result of increased sales volumes in our United States segment, partially offset by the sale of our U.K. business in the International segment. 

 Exploration expenses decreased $140 million during 2019 versus the comparable 2018. Decreases in unproved property impairments were driven by changes in impairment assumptions based on actual development experience. Also in 2018, there was $32 million of dry well costs and $16 million in unproved property impairments related to the Rodo well in Alba Block Sub Area B, offshore E.G. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for details of these items. 

The following table summarizes the components of exploration expenses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation, depletion and amortization decreased $44 million in 2019 from 2018 primarily as a result of dispositions which included the sale of our U.K. business and the sale of certain non-core asset dispositions in our United States segment. Adding to the decrease were lower 2019 production volumes in E.G. Our segments apply the units-of-production method to the majority of their assets, including capitalized asset retirement costs; therefore, volumes have an impact on DD&A expense.

The DD&A rate (per boe), which is impacted by field-level changes in reserves, capitalized costs and sales volumes, can also impact our DD&A expense. The DD&A rate for International decreased primarily as a result of dispositions. Our United States DD&A rate decreased in 2019 primarily due to reserve additions as well as non-core asset dispositions in 2018. 

34

The following table provides DD&A expense and DD&A expense rates for each segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Impairments decreased $51 million in 2019 from 2018 as a result of lower anticipated sales of certain non-core proved properties in our International and United States segments in the current period. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 to the consolidated financial statement for detail of proved property impairments each year. 

General and administrative expenses decreased $38 million in 2019 compared to 2018. This was primarily the result of decreased compensation costs. 

Provision (benefit) for income taxes reflects an effective tax benefit rate of 22% for 2019, as compared to an effective income tax expense rate of 23% for 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the effective income tax rate. 

Segment Results: 2019 compared to 2018

Segment Income 

Segment income represents income which excludes certain items not allocated to our operating segments, net of income taxes. A portion of our corporate and operations general and administrative support costs are not allocated to the operating segments. These unallocated costs primarily consist of employment costs (including pension effects), professional services, facilities and other costs associated with corporate and operations support activities. Additionally, items which affect comparability such as: gains or losses on dispositions, certain property impairments, certain exploration expenses relating to a strategic decision to exit conventional exploration, unrealized gains or losses on commodity derivative instruments, pension settlement losses or other items (as determined by the CODM) are not allocated to operating segments.  

The following table reconciles segment income to net income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail about items not allocated to segments. 

 United States segment income increased $67 million after-tax in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to a net gain on commodity derivatives in 2019 versus net loss on commodity derivatives in 2018, as well as lower exploration costs. This increase was partially offset by lower price realizations along with increases in certain expenses as a result of higher net sales volumes. 

 International segment income decreased $240 million after-tax in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to lower income from our equity method investments and our operations in E.G. as a result of lower sales volumes and price realizations, offset by lower costs and taxes due to dispositions. Sales volumes decreased due to the planned triennial turnaround in E.G. completed in the first quarter 2019 and natural field decline in E.G. The income decrease was also attributed to dispositions of our U.K. business and our non-operated interest in the Atrush block in Kurdistan. 

35

Consolidated Results of Operations: 2018 compared to 2017 

A detailed discussion of the year-over-year changes from the year ended December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2017 can be found in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity

Commodity prices are the most significant factor impacting our operating cash flows and the amount of capital available to reinvest into the business. In 2019, we experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily as a result of lower commodity realizations, of which crude oil and condensate price realizations decreased by 12% to $55.54 per barrel.

During 2019 our cash flow highlights include:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Asset acquisitions during the year of $293 million were paid with cash on hand.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•During the fourth quarter, we completed three leverage neutral finance transactions which extend maturities and generate annual cash savings.

At December 31, 2019, we had approximately $3.9 billion of liquidity consisting of $858 million in cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 billion available under our revolving credit facility. In September 2019, we entered into an amendment to our Credit Facility to reduce the maximum borrowing from $3.4 billion to $3.0 billion and extended the maturity date by one year to May 28, 2023. As previously discussed in the Outlook section, we are targeting a $2.4 billion Capital Budget for 2020. We believe our current liquidity level, cash flow from operations and ability to access the capital markets provides us with the flexibility to fund our business across a wide range of commodity price environments.

Cash Flows

The following table presents sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for 2019 and 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash flows generated from operating activities in 2019 were 15% lower as commodity price realizations decreased 13% along with lower net sales volumes in our International segment as a result of E.G. planned maintenance and natural field decline, coupled with dispositions. 

36

Disposals of assets in 2019 were primarily related to proceeds, net of the cash transferred to the buyer, with the sale of our U.K. business; partially offset by the proceeds received from the sale of a 25% non-operated working interest in the Louisiana Austin Chalk as well as the sale of our non-operated interest in the Atrush block in Kurdistan. Proceeds from the disposals of assets for 2018 are primarily related to our non-operated interest in Libya, as well as the remaining proceeds from the sale of our Canadian business. Disposition transactions are discussed in further detail in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

Additions to property, plant and equipment in 2019 totaled $2.6 billion, consistent with expectations (last year, we communicated our $2.6 billion Capital Budget consisted of $2.4 billion in development capital and $200 million to fund resource play exploration. 

The following table shows capital expenditures by segment and reconciles to additions to property, plant and equipment as presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) The change in capital expenditure accrual includes activity for assets classified as held for sale for the years presented. 

Additions to other assets relates to deposits on our resource play exploration program. 

In the fourth quarter 2019, we acquired approximately 18,000 net acres in the Eagle Ford for $191 million and approximately 40,000 acres in a Texas Delaware oil play in West Texas for $106 million. 

During the fourth quarter 2019, we completed two separate financing transactions resulting in a debt borrowing of $600 million and debt repayment of $600 million, which is further discussed in the Capital Resources section below. Also see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for details of these items 

During 2019 and 2018, the Board of Directors approved a $0.05 per share quarterly dividend. See Capital Requirements below for additional information about the fourth quarter 2019 dividend. 

Available Liquidity

In September 2019, we entered into an amendment to our Credit Facility to reduce the maximum borrowing from $3.4 billion to $3.0 billion and extended the maturity date by one year to May 28, 2023. 

Our main sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, internally generated cash flow from operations, sales of non-core assets, capital market transactions, and our revolving Credit Facility. At December 31, 2019, we had approximately $3.9 billion of liquidity consisting of $858 million in cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 billion available under our revolving Credit Facility. Our working capital requirements are supported by these sources and we may issue either commercial paper backed by our revolving Credit Facility or draw on our revolving credit facility to meet short-term cash requirements, or issue debt or equity securities through the shelf registration statement discussed below as part of our longer-term liquidity and capital management program. Because of the alternatives available to us as discussed above, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity are adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements including our capital spending programs, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities, and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. 

General economic conditions, commodity prices, and financial, business and other factors could affect our operations and our ability to access the capital markets. Our corporate credit ratings as of December 31, 2019 are: Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services BBB (stable); Fitch Ratings BBB (stable); and Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. Baa3 (stable). We are rated investment grade at all three primary credit rating agencies. In addition, we also have the ability to borrow on our U.S. commercial paper program, which is backed by the revolving credit facility. A downgrade in our credit ratings could increase our future cost of financing or limit our ability to access capital, and result in additional collateral requirements. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of how a downgrade in our credit ratings could affect us.

37

We may incur additional debt in order to fund our capital expenditures, acquisitions or development activities, or for general corporate or other purposes. A higher level of indebtedness could increase the risk that our liquidity and financial flexibility deteriorates. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further discussion of how our level of indebtedness could affect us.

Capital Resources

Credit Arrangements and Borrowings

At December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings against our Credit Facility or under our U.S. commercial paper program that is backed by the Credit Facility. 

At December 31, 2019, we had $5.5 billion in long-term debt outstanding. We do not have any triggers on any of our corporate debt that would cause an event of default in the case of a downgrade of our credit ratings.

On October 1, 2019, we closed a $600 million remarketing to investors of sub-series A bonds which are part of the $1.0 billion St. John the Baptist, State of Louisiana revenue refunding bonds originally issued and purchased in December 2017. The $600 million in proceeds from the conversion and remarketing were used to pay the purchase price of our converted 2017 bonds on the closing date. We continue to own the remaining $400 million of the revenue refunding bonds and have the right to convert and remarket them to investors at any time up to the 2037 maturity date. 

On October 3, 2019, we redeemed our $600 million 2.7% senior unsecured notes due June 2020.  Our next debt maturity is the $1.0 billion 2.8% senior unsecured notes due 2022. 

Shelf Registration

We have a universal shelf registration statement filed with the SEC under which we, as a “well-known seasoned issuer” for purposes of SEC rules, have the ability to issue and sell an indeterminate amount of various types of debt and equity securities.

Asset Disposals 

In the third quarter of 2019, we closed on the sale of our U.K. business for proceeds of approximately $95 million, reflecting the assumption by the buyer of working capital and cash equivalent balances, asset retirement obligations of $966 million, as well as the pension obligations.

In the second quarter of 2019, we closed on the sale of our 15% non-operated interest in the Atrush block in Kurdistan for proceeds of $63 million, before closing adjustments. Disposition transactions are discussed in further detail in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

Debt-To-Capital Ratio

The Credit Facility includes a covenant requiring that our ratio of total debt to total capitalization not exceed 65% as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. Our debt-to-capital ratio was 31% at both December 31, 2019 and 2018. 

Capital Requirements

Capital Spending

Our approved Capital Budget for 2020 is $2.4 billion. Additional details were previously discussed in Outlook.

Share Repurchase Program

In 2019, we acquired approximately 24 million common shares at a cost of $345 million under our share repurchase program with remaining share repurchase authorization as of December 31, 2019 of $1.4 billion. 

Other Expected Cash Outflows

On January 29, 2020, our Board of Directors approved a dividend of $0.05 per share for the fourth quarter of 2019. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2020 to shareholders of record on February 19, 2020. 

We plan to make contributions of up to $28 million to our funded pension plans during 2020. Cash contributions to be paid from our general assets for the unfunded pension and postretirement plans are expected to be approximately $6 million and $18 million in 2020. 

38

Contractual Cash Obligations

The table below provides aggregated information on our consolidated obligations to make future payments under existing contracts as of December 31, 2019.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c) Oil and gas activities include contracts to acquire property, plant and equipment and commitments for oil and gas exploration such as costs related to contractually obligated exploratory work programs that are expensed immediately.

(d) Service and materials contracts include contracts to purchase services such as utilities, supplies and various other maintenance and operating services.

(e) Includes any drilling rigs and fracturing crews that are not considered lease obligations.

(f) Primarily includes obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits including medical and life insurance. We have estimated projected funding requirements through 2027. Although unrecognized tax benefits are not a contractual obligation, they are presented in this table because they represent potential demands on our liquidity.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Transactions with Related Parties

We own a 63% working interest in the Alba field offshore E.G. Onshore E.G., we own a 52% interest in an LPG processing plant, a 60% interest in an LNG production facility and a 45% interest in a methanol production plant, each through equity method investees. We sell our natural gas from the Alba field to these equity method investees as the feedstock for their production processes. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Off-balance sheet arrangements comprise those arrangements that may potentially impact our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations, even though such arrangements are not recorded as liabilities under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Although off-balance sheet arrangements serve a variety of our business purposes, we are not dependent on these arrangements to maintain our liquidity and capital resources, and we are not aware of any circumstances that are reasonably likely to cause the off-balance sheet arrangements to have a material adverse effect on liquidity and capital resources.

We will issue stand-alone letters of credit when required by a business partner. Such letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 aggregated $14 million, $52 million and $89 million. Most of the letters of credit are in support of obligations recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. In 2019, our letters of credit outstanding decreased as a result of our upgraded credit rating and the sale of our U.K. business (we no longer have requirements to support firm transportation agreements and future abandonment liabilities).

In 2018, we signed an agreement with an owner/lessor to construct and lease a new build-to-suit office building in Houston, Texas. The new Houston office location is expected to be completed in 2021. The lessor and other participants are providing financing for up to $380 million, to fund the estimated project costs. As of December 31, 2019 project costs incurred totaled $58 million, primarily for land acquisition and initial design costs. The initial lease term is five years and will commence once construction is substantially complete and the new Houston office is ready for occupancy. At the end of the initial lease term, we can extend the term of the lease for an additional five years, subject to the approval of the 

39

participants; purchase the property subject to certain terms and conditions; or remarket the property to an unrelated third party. The lease contains a residual value guarantee of approximately 89% of the total acquisition and construction costs. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on leases.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies

We have incurred and will continue to incur capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. If these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately offset by the prices of our products and services, our operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that substantially all of our competitors must comply with similar environmental laws and regulations. However, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, marketing areas and production processes. These laws generally provide for control of pollutants released into the environment and require responsible parties to undertake remediation of hazardous waste disposal sites. Penalties may be imposed for noncompliance.

We accrue for environmental remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs can be reasonably estimated. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required. 

New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase our environmental costs, may arise in the future on both state and federal levels. We strive to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but as not all costs are fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation or regulations, it is not possible to predict all of the ultimate costs of compliance, including remediation costs that may be incurred and penalties that may be imposed.

For more information on environmental regulations that impact us, or could impact us, see Item 1. Business – Environmental, Health and Safety Matters, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the respective reporting periods. Accounting estimates are considered to be critical if (1) the nature of the estimates and assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and (2) the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.

Estimated Quantities of Net Reserves

We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. The successful efforts method inherently relies on the estimation of proved crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas reserves. The amount of estimated proved reserve volumes affect, among other things, whether certain costs are capitalized or expensed, the amount and timing of costs depreciated, depleted or amortized into net income and the presentation of supplemental information on oil and gas producing activities. In addition, the expected future cash flows to be generated by producing properties are used for testing impairment and the expected future taxable income available to realize deferred tax assets, also in part, rely on estimates of quantities of net reserves. Refer to the applicable sections below for further discussion of these accounting estimates.

The estimation of quantities of net reserves is a highly technical process performed by our petroleum engineers and geoscientists for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, which is based upon several underlying assumptions. The reserve estimates may change as additional information becomes available and as contractual, operational, economic and political conditions change. We evaluate our reserves using drilling results, reservoir performance, seismic interpretation and future plans to develop acreage. Technologies used in proved reserves estimation includes statistical analysis of production performance, decline curve analysis, pressure and rate transient analysis, pressure gradient analysis, reservoir simulation and volumetric analysis. The observed statistical nature of production performance coupled with highly certain reservoir continuity or quality within the reliable technology areas and sufficient proved developed locations establish the reasonable certainty criteria required for booking proved reserves. The data for a given reservoir may also change over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity and future development costs, production history and continual reassessment of the viability of future production volumes under varying economic conditions. 

40

Reserve estimates are based on an unweighted arithmetic average of commodity prices during the 12-month period, using the closing prices on the first day of each month, as defined by the SEC. The table below provides the 2019 SEC pricing for certain benchmark prices:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

When determining the December 31, 2019 proved reserves for each property, the benchmark prices listed above were adjusted using price differentials that account for property-specific quality and location differences. 

If crude oil prices in the future average below prices used to determine proved reserves at December 31, 2019, it could have an adverse effect on our estimates of proved reserve volumes and the value of our business. Future reserve revisions could also result from changes in capital funding, drilling plans and governmental regulation, among other things. It is difficult to estimate the magnitude of any potential price change and the effect on proved reserves, due to numerous factors (including future crude oil price and performance revisions). For further discussion of risks associated with our estimation of proved reserves, see Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Depreciation and depletion of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas producing properties is determined by the units-of-production method and could change with revisions to estimated proved reserves. While revisions of previous reserve estimates have not historically been significant to the depreciation and depletion rates of our segments, any reduction in proved reserves, could result in an acceleration of future DD&A expense. The following table illustrates, on average, the sensitivity of each segment’s units-of-production DD&A per boe and pretax income to a hypothetical 10% change in 2019 proved reserves based on 2019 production.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fair Value Estimates

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. There are three approaches for measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities: the market approach, the income approach and the cost approach, each of which includes multiple valuation techniques. The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. The income approach uses valuation techniques to measure fair value by converting future amounts, such as cash flows or earnings, into a single present value, or range of present values, using current market expectations about those future amounts. The cost approach is based on the amount that would currently be required to replace the service capacity of an asset. This is often referred to as current replacement cost. The cost approach assumes that the fair value would not exceed what it would cost a market participant to acquire or construct a substitute asset of comparable utility, adjusted for obsolescence.

The fair value accounting standards do not prescribe which valuation technique should be used when measuring fair value and do not prioritize among the techniques. These standards establish a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used in applying the various valuation techniques. Inputs broadly refer to the assumptions that market participants use to make pricing decisions, including assumptions about risk. Level 1 inputs are given the highest priority in the fair value hierarchy while Level 3 inputs are given the lowest priority. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:

•Level 1 – Observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets as of the measurement date. Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.

•Level 2 – Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. These are inputs other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the measurement date.

•Level 3 – Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value.

41

Valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs are favored. Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest priority level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the placement of assets and liabilities within the levels of the fair value hierarchy. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures regarding our fair value measurements.

Significant uses of fair value measurements include:

•assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination;

•assets acquired in an asset acquisition;

•impairment assessments of long-lived assets;

•impairment assessments of goodwill;

•recorded value of derivative instruments; and

•recorded value of pension plan assets.

The need to test long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment can be based on several indicators, including a significant reduction in prices of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, sustained declines in our common stock, reductions to our Capital Budget, unfavorable adjustments to reserves, significant changes in the expected timing of production, other changes to contracts or changes in the regulatory environment in which the property is located.

Impairment Assessments of Long-Lived Assets 

Long-lived assets in use are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. For purposes of an impairment evaluation, long-lived assets must be grouped at the lowest level for which independent cash flows can be identified, which generally is field-by-field or, in certain instances, by logical grouping of assets if there is significant shared infrastructure or contractual terms that cause economic interdependency amongst separate, discrete fields. If the sum of the undiscounted estimated cash flows from the use of the asset group and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying value of an asset group, the carrying value is written down to the estimated fair value. During 2019, proved property impairments were primarily as a result of anticipated sales for certain non-core proved properties in our United States segment and the sale of our non-operated interest in the Atrush block (Kurdistan) in our International segment. We estimated the fair values using a market approach, based upon anticipated sales proceeds less costs to sell, and recognized impairments. 

Fair value calculated for the purpose of testing our long-lived assets for impairment is estimated using the present value of expected future cash flows method and comparative market prices when appropriate. Significant judgment is involved in performing these fair value estimates since the results are based on forecasted assumptions. Significant assumptions include:

•Future crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices. Our estimates of future prices are based on our analysis of market supply and demand and consideration of market price indicators. Although these commodity prices may experience extreme volatility in any given year, we believe long-term industry prices are driven by global market supply and demand. To estimate supply, we consider numerous factors, including the worldwide resource base, depletion rates and OPEC production policies. We believe demand is largely driven by global economic factors, such as population and income growth, governmental policies and vehicle stocks. The prices we use in our fair value estimates are consistent with those used in our planning and capital investment reviews. There has been significant volatility in crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices and estimates of such future prices are inherently imprecise. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion on commodity prices.

•Estimated quantities of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas. Such quantities are based on a combination of proved reserves and risk-weighted probable reserves and resources such that the combined volumes represent the most likely expectation of recovery. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion on reserves.

•Expected timing of production. Production forecasts are the outcome of engineering studies which estimate reserves, as well as expected capital programs. The actual timing of the production could be different than the projection. Cash flows realized later in the projection period are less valuable than those realized earlier due to the time value of money. The expected timing of production that we use in our fair value estimates is consistent with that used in our planning and capital investment reviews.

•Discount rate commensurate with the risks involved. We apply a discount rate to our expected cash flows based on a variety of factors, including market and economic conditions, operational risk, regulatory risk and political risk. A higher discount rate decreases the net present value of cash flows. 

•Future capital requirements. Our estimates of future capital requirements are based upon a combination of authorized spending and internal forecasts.

42

We base our fair value estimates on projected financial information which we believe to be reasonably likely to occur. An estimate of the sensitivity to changes in assumptions in our undiscounted cash flow calculations is not practicable, given the numerous assumptions (e.g. reserves, pace and timing of development plans, commodity prices, capital expenditures, operating costs, drilling and development costs, inflation and discount rates) that can materially affect our estimates. Unfavorable adjustments to some of the above listed assumptions would likely be offset by favorable adjustments in other assumptions. For example, the impact of sustained reduced commodity prices on future undiscounted cash flows would likely be partially offset by lower costs. As of December 31, 2019 our estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to our remaining long-lived assets significantly exceeded their carrying values. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 11 and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of impairments recorded in 2019, 2018 and 2017 and the related fair value measurements.

Impairment Assessments of Goodwill

Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or between annual tests when events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value may have been reduced below its carrying value. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. Our reporting units are the same as our reporting segments, of which only International includes goodwill. As of December 31, 2019, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $95 million. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Our policy is to first assess the qualitative factors in order to determine whether the fair value of our International reporting unit is more likely than not less than its carrying amount. Certain qualitative factors used in our evaluation include, among other things, the results of the most recent quantitative assessment of the goodwill impairment test; macroeconomic conditions; industry and market conditions (including commodity prices and cost factors); overall financial performance; and other relevant entity-specific events. If, after considering these events and circumstances we determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the International reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative goodwill test is performed. The quantitative goodwill test is performed using a combination of market and income approaches. The market approach references observable inputs specific to us and our industry, such as the price of our common equity, our enterprise value, and valuation multiples of us and our peers from the investor analyst community. The income approach utilizes discounted cash flows, which are based on forecasted assumptions. Key assumptions to the income approach are the same as those described above regarding our impairment assessment of long lived assets and are consistent with those that management uses to make business decisions.

During the second quarter of 2019, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill using the qualitative assessment. Our qualitative assessment considered the significant excess fair value over carrying value in our most recent step 1 test (second quarter of 2017) and noted a general improvement in the qualitative factors above. After assessing the totality of the qualitative factors which could have a positive or negative impact on goodwill, our assessment did not indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than its carrying value. As a result, we concluded that no impairment to goodwill was required for our International reporting unit. We believe the estimates and assumptions used in our impairment assessments are reasonable and based on available market information, but variations in such assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value and determinations of whether or not an impairment is indicated. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of goodwill. 

Derivatives

We record all derivative instruments at fair value. Fair value measurements for all our derivative instruments are based on observable market-based inputs that are corroborated by market data and are discussed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Additional information about derivatives and their valuation may be found in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Pension Plan Assets

Pension plan assets are measured at fair value. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of the fair value of plan assets and the presentation of the fair value of our defined benefit pension plan’s assets by level within the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. 

Income Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in numerous taxing jurisdictions worldwide. Estimates of income taxes to be recorded involve interpretation of complex tax laws and assessment of the effects of foreign taxes on our U.S. federal income taxes. 

Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns which remain subject to examination, along with positions expected to be taken in future returns. We provide for unrecognized tax benefits, based on the technical merits, when it is more likely than not that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination. Adjustments are made to 

43

the uncertain tax positions when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit; court proceedings; changes in applicable tax laws, including tax case rulings and legislative guidance; or expiration of the applicable statute of limitations.

We have recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities, measured at enacted tax rates, for temporary differences between book basis and tax basis, tax credit carryforwards and operating loss carryforwards. In accordance with U.S. GAAP accounting standards, we routinely assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets and reduce such assets, to the expected realizable amount, by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the need for additional or adjustments to existing valuation allowances, we consider all available positive and negative evidence. Positive evidence includes reversals of temporary differences, forecasts of future taxable income, assessment of future business assumptions and applicable tax planning strategies that are prudent and feasible. Negative evidence includes losses in recent years as well as the forecasts of future income (loss) in the realizable period. In making our assessment regarding valuation allowances, we weight the evidence based on objectivity.

We base our future taxable income estimates on projected financial information which we believe to be reasonably likely to occur. Numerous judgments and assumptions are inherent in the estimation of future taxable income, including factors such as future operating conditions and the assessment of the effects of foreign taxes on our U.S. federal income taxes. Future operating conditions can be affected by numerous factors, including (i) future crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices, (ii) estimated quantities of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, (iii) expected timing of production, and (iv) future capital requirements. These assumptions are described in further detail above regarding our impairment assessment of long-lived assets. An estimate of the sensitivity to changes in assumptions resulting in future taxable income calculations is not practicable, given the numerous assumptions that can materially affect our estimates. Unfavorable adjustments to some of the above listed assumptions would likely be offset by favorable adjustments in other assumptions. For example, the impact of sustained reduced commodity prices on future taxable income would likely be partially offset by lower capital expenditures.

Based on the assumptions and judgments described above, as of December 31, 2019, we reflect a valuation allowance in our consolidated balance sheet of $699 million against our gross deferred tax assets of $2.4 billion in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Our gross deferred tax assets consist primarily of federal U.S. operating loss carryforwards of $655 million, which will expire in 2035 - 2037, and $829 million which can be carried forward indefinitely. Since December 31, 2016, we have maintained a full valuation allowance on our net federal deferred tax assets. If objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses are no longer present and additional weight is given to subjective evidence such as forecasted projections of taxable income in future years, we would adjust the amount of the federal deferred tax assets considered realizable and reduce the provision for income taxes in the period of adjustment. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. 

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations

Accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations involves numerous assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the following:

•the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations;

•the expected long-term return on plan assets;

•the rate of future increases in compensation levels; and

We develop our demographics and utilize the work of third-party actuaries to assist in the measurement of these obligations. We have selected different discount rates for our U.S. pension plans and our other U.S. postretirement benefit plans due to the different projected benefit payment patterns. In determining the assumed discount rates, our methods include a review of market yields on high-quality corporate debt and use of our third-party actuary’s discount rate model. This model calculates an equivalent single discount rate for the projected benefit plan cash flows using a yield curve derived from bond yields. The yield curve represents a series of annualized individual spot discount rates from 0.5 to 99 years. The bonds used are rated AA or higher by a recognized rating agency, only non-callable bonds are included and outlier bonds (bonds that have a yield to maturity that significantly deviates from the average yield within each maturity grouping) are removed. Each issue is required to have at least $300 million par value outstanding. The constructed yield curve is based on those bonds representing the 50% highest yielding issuances within each defined maturity group.

The asset rate of return assumption for the funded U.S. plan considers the plan’s asset mix (currently targeted at approximately 55% equity and 45% other fixed income securities), past performance and other factors. Certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions regarding inflation, debt returns and stock yields.

Compensation change assumptions are based on historical experience, anticipated future management actions and demographics of the benefit plans. Health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends.

44

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements includes detailed information about the assumptions used to calculate the components of our annual defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan expense, as well as the obligations and accumulated other comprehensive income reported on the consolidated balance sheets.

Contingent Liabilities

We accrue contingent liabilities for environmental remediation, tax deficiencies related to operating taxes, as well as tax disputes and litigation claims when such contingencies are probable and estimable. Actual costs can differ from estimates for many reasons. For instance, settlement costs for claims and litigation can vary from estimates based on differing interpretations of laws, opinions on responsibility and assessments of the amount of damages. Similarly, liabilities for environmental remediation may vary from estimates because of changes in laws, regulations and their interpretation, additional information on the extent and nature of site contamination and improvements in technology. Our in-house legal counsel regularly assesses these contingent liabilities. In certain circumstances outside legal counsel is utilized.

We generally record losses related to these types of contingencies as other operating expense or general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income, except for tax contingencies unrelated to income taxes, which are recorded as taxes other than income. For additional information on contingent liabilities, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies.

An estimate of the sensitivity to net income if other assumptions had been used in recording these liabilities is not practical because of the number of contingencies that must be assessed, the number of underlying assumptions and the wide range of reasonably possible outcomes, in terms of both the probability of loss and the estimates of such loss.

Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted

See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

45

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk