PART I 

ITEM 1.  

BUSINESS 

General 

National Oilwell Varco, Inc. (“NOV” or the “Company”), a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1995, is a leading independent provider of equipment and technology to the upstream oil and gas industry. The Company was originally founded in 1862 in Oil City, PA. Over the course of its 156-year history, NOV and its predecessor companies have helped transform the way the industry develops oil and gas fields and improved the cost-effectiveness, efficiency, safety, and environmental impact of global oil and gas operations. Over the past few decades, the Company pioneered and refined key technologies that helped make frontier resources, such as unconventional and deepwater oil and gas, economically viable. 

NOV owns an extensive proprietary technology portfolio, which the Company uses to support the industry’s full-field drilling, completion, and production needs. By leveraging its unmatched cross-segment capabilities, scope, and scale, NOV continues to develop and introduce technologies that further enhance oilfield economics, with particular focus on those technologies related to drilling automation, multistage completions, predictive analytics and condition-based maintenance, and improved deepwater project economics. Given the breadth and depth of the Company’s technology and product offerings, most oil and gas wells around the world see at least some piece of NOV equipment over the course of their lifetime. 

NOV serves major-diversified, national, and independent service companies; contractors; and oil and gas operators in 63 countries around the world. The Company currently operates under three segments: Wellbore Technologies, Completion & Production Solutions, and Rig Technologies.  

Business Strategy and Competitive Strengths 

NOV’s primary business objective is to further enhance its position in the marketplace as a leading independent provider of technology and equipment to the upstream oil and gas industry. The Company intends to advance this objective and generate above-average returns on its capital over the long term by delivering technologies, equipment, and services that help lower the marginal cost of developing and producing oil and gas resources and by executing the following strategies that leverage the Company’s competitive strengths: 

Leverage NOV’s advantages of size, scope, scale, and position in the market 

NOV’s position as a leading independent provider of technology and equipment to the upstream oil and gas industry affords the Company several competitive advantages, as follows: 

Economies of scale in procurement and manufacturing. NOV’s market leadership and global footprint, which spans almost every major oilfield market, provides the Company with economies of scale. NOV’s scope and scale have enabled it to develop a unique global supply chain, which provides the Company with the ability to procure materials from the lowest-cost sources of supply around the world. The Company’s global manufacturing footprint and flexibility to produce a diverse array of products also enables NOV to rapidly adapt to changes in demand, efficiently leverage manufacturing capacity that is near high-demand areas, and manufacture goods in the lowest-cost jurisdictions. The geographic diversity of NOV’s footprint also reduces potential volatility in the Company’s revenues from shifts in location of oilfield activity around the world, regional differences in hydrocarbon prices, and adverse weather and other events.  

Scope and scale for distribution and marketing. As a leading independent provider of technology and equipment to the oilfield and with operations in 63 countries, NOV has developed an efficient global distribution network and relationships with virtually every oil and gas operator, service company, and contractor in the world. NOV uses its customer relationships and distribution capabilities to accelerate the commercialization of new products and technologies. NOV routinely develops technologies for use in the global marketplace. NOV’s infrastructure allows the Company to quickly penetrate the global marketplace and can create a first-mover advantage as customers prefer to standardize operations around certain products. 

2 

Reputation, experience, and benefits of fleet standardization. NOV’s reputation and experience make its products a lower-risk purchasing decision for customers. The Company benefits from customer efforts to standardize training, maintenance, and spare parts. Standardized fleets of equipment are easier for customers to operate and maintain, resulting in reduced downtime, lower training costs, better safety, and reduced inventory stocking requirements. Customers may prefer to standardize on equipment from a well-capitalized market leader such as NOV. NOV has entered into long-term service agreements with several large offshore drilling contractors whereby NOV will employ big data analytics and condition monitoring to maximize uptime and reduce the customer’s total cost of ownership for drill floor equipment. 

Large installed base of equipment. As a leading original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) in the oilfield, NOV is in an excellent position to provide aftermarket support for the industry’s largest installed base of equipment. Most oilfield services customers prefer OEM aftermarket support of their equipment, and many of their E&P customers demand it. Customers frequently encounter higher risk and cost when they purchase and use potentially incompatible products from different vendors, particularly where products must interact through complex interfaces, which are common sources of failures and unplanned costs. Additionally, certain past industry events increased the industry’s risk profile with government regulatory bodies, who have shown a strong preference for service contractors maintaining critical equipment through the OEM.  

Digital products and technologies. NOV’s size and scale also provides for inherent competitive advantages in the areas of technology and innovation. NOV often develops technologies and solutions that involve multiple segments and businesses within the Company. Many such solutions could not be developed by smaller, less-diverse organizations, as an appropriate return on the cost of investment to develop certain technologies could not be achieved when applied to a more limited product offering. NOV’s efforts in big data, predictive analytics, and associated sensor technologies is an example of one such area. NOV has invested considerable time and resources to develop its MaxTM industrial platform, which enables large-scale collection, aggregation, and analytics of real-time equipment data. While the initial application of this platform was a predictive analytics and condition-based monitoring solution for subsea blowout preventers, the platform was designed to be the backbone of all big data products and services offered by the Company and to be used to monitor, analyze, and optimize many of the Company’s own manufacturing operations.  

Employ a capital-light business model with the ability to quickly scale operations 

NOV’s manufacturing operations are capital light and have low fixed-asset intensity. The Company’s facilities require relatively low investment and maintenance expenditures versus the sales they enable. NOV manufactures a diverse array of products across its manufacturing infrastructure and drives efficiency improvements by shifting production runs to facilities where demand is highest—lowering shipping costs—or to facilities that have the lowest-cost operations. The Company also realizes the benefit of serving a customer base that requires technically complex equipment used in extremely harsh environments. Placing sophisticated tools in a bottomhole assembly at the end of drillpipe to precisely place a wellbore several miles into the earth, and then physically cracking open reservoir rock using large volumes of highly abrasive fluids pumped at extremely high pressures, is incredibly hard on equipment. This harsh operating environment creates recurring sales opportunities for replacement equipment and aftermarket sales and service.  

NOV has organized its infrastructure to take advantage of the oil and gas industry’s cyclicality. As commodity prices rise, the oilfield typically enters an expansionary phase where large amounts of capital are deployed quickly and equipment orders increase in line. NOV maintains the ability to ramp up manufacturing capacity quickly to capture the value generated by up-cycles while meeting the demands of its customer base. During industry down-cycles, the Company focuses on improving internal efficiencies and advancing technological offerings. NOV’s ability to continue, if not accelerate, pursuit of its technological initiatives throughout industry cycles enhances the Company’s ability to drive long-term customer and shareholder value. The Company also outsources non-critical machining operations with lower tolerance requirements during times of increased activity levels and brings the machining operations back into Company-owned facilities during down-cycles to improve asset utilization and lower costs. 

3 

Capitalize on and drive end-market fragmentation 

A key tenet of NOV’s business model is to make its technologies and products available to all industry participants. To the extent NOV can provide equipment and technology that is as good, if not better than, products developed by service providers, it will prevent any one organization from having a proprietary advantage and therefore drive fragmentation. This fragmentation expands NOV’s customer base and permits the Company to avoid customer concentration in most of its businesses. NOV has resisted the recent trend toward vertical integration, which has left the Company in an attractive and unique position in the marketplace as the only large-cap independent provider of technology and equipment to the oilfield service space. In the international markets, many countries are pursuing initiatives that drive local content and greater local employment in oilfield activity. These actions will likely prompt more local startup enterprises, further expanding the number of customers for NOV’s equipment. 

Develop proprietary technologies and solutions that assist oil and gas operators in reducing their marginal cost of supply 

NOV strives to further develop its substantial technology portfolio and has a reputation for rapidly developing innovative solutions that assist its customers’ pursuit of productivity gains. The Company is well positioned to leverage resources and introduce new breakthrough technologies, including digital products that enhance efficiencies and address industry needs, to generate strong returns. The Company’s unmatched cross-business-unit capabilities and expertise uniquely position NOV to pioneer proprietary technologies across its business lines. For example, NOV’s Wellbore Technologies and Rig Technologies segments jointly introduced closed-loop drilling technologies, which link data from the bottom of the well to the software controls of the drilling rig and use machine learning to drive greater efficiency. NOV works closely with customers to identify needs and its technical experts utilize internal research and development capabilities to develop value-added technologies.  

Employ a conservative capital structure with ample liquidity to capitalize on volatility associated with the oil and gas industry 

NOV maintains a conservative capital structure, with an investment grade credit rating and ample liquidity. The Company carefully manages its capital structure by continuously monitoring cash flow, capital spending, and debt capacity. Maintaining financial strength inspires confidence from customers who provide NOV with large purchase commitments that the Company delivers over multi-year timeframes and who expect NOV to support their equipment with OEM aftermarket parts and services for decades to come. A strong balance sheet provides NOV with the flexibility to execute its strategy, including advancing technological offerings, through industry volatility and commodity price cycles. The Company intends to maintain a conservative approach to managing its balance sheet to preserve operational and strategic flexibility. 

Business Segment Overview 

Wellbore Technologies provides the critical technologies, equipment, and services required to maximize customer efficiencies and economics associated with oil and gas wells. The segment’s offerings are provided through the following business units:  

•  

Downhole is a leading independent equipment supplier in the drilling and intervention segment of the industry, with engineering teams, manufacturing facilities, supply hubs and service centers situated in regions of oil and gas activity. With a constantly-evolving product portfolio that includes downhole drilling motors, SelectShiftTM motors, agitator systems, as well as fishing and thrutubing tools, the Downhole business unit’s offerings enable its customers to achieve significant increases in efficiency, whether in drilling, workover or intervention operations.  

•  

Tuboscope is a leader in tubular coating and inspection services, servicing drill pipe and other oil country tubular goods (“OCTG”) such as casing, production tubing, and line pipe. Backed by an 80-year track record, Tuboscope offers a fully integrated inspection, coating, and repair process that enables customers to be confident that their critical OCTG will behave as they should when needed. In addition, Tuboscope offers artificial lift rod solutions, line-pipe connection systems, pipe thread protection systems, and RFID technology for complete drillpipe lifecycle management.  

4 

•  

Grant Prideco is a leading manufacturer of premium drill-stem tubulars. With an integrated supply chain and a strong offering of premium drillpipe connections, Grant Prideco offers one stop shopping for all drill stem needs. Grant Prideco leverages its expertise in metallurgy and connection technologies to offer an innovative product portfolio that can address customer needs ranging from the simplest vertical land well to the challenging needs of deepwater, extended-reach, high-pressure/high-temperature, and factory-drilling applications.  

•  

IntelliServ is the only independent commercial provider of wired drillpipe complete with an associated telemetry network that utilizes real-time broadband data transmission to enable instantaneous two-way communication between the bottomhole assembly and surface control system. IntelliServTM wired pipe enables real time information, real time bottom-hole pressure monitoring, and significant rig time savings as surveys, downlinks, slide orientations, and other data-driven activities are performed in a matter of seconds versus minutes with conventional telemetry. 

•  

Directional Drilling Technologies is a leading designer and manufacturer of downhole tools and technologies used in directional drilling operations. Directional Drilling Technologies measurement-while-drilling tools enable real-time monitoring of the location of wellbore and logging-while-drilling tools provide critical information of the formation being drilled. A comprehensive portfolio of rotary-steerable-systems, including tools with closed-loop directional control, enable directional drillers to drill the desired well trajectory at high rates of penetration with limited interaction from surface. Together these capabilities enable accurate placement of the wellbore in the desired reservoir location to maximize well productivity. As an independent supplier, Directional Drilling Technologies provides broad access to those critical technologies required to drill directional wells efficiently and enables service companies, drilling contractors and E&P operators worldwide to deliver productive wells cost-effectively and reliably. 

•  

WellSite Services is a leading provider of solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling and completion fluids, advanced wellhead cellar systems, managed-pressure-drilling systems, and wellsite logistics solutions. WellSite Services manufactures, sells, and rents highly engineered solids control equipment and provides field services that improve customers’ bottom line by efficiently separating solids and reclaiming drilling fluids for re-use. After separating drill cuttings, WellSite Services provides waste management (both onsite and at centralized locations), including transport and storage. Additionally, Wellsite Services provides high-performance drilling fluid, water management solutions and managed pressure drilling services, combined with a network of experts that safely work at the wellsite to ensure that operators have the support they need to bring their wells in on-time and on-budget. WellSite Services offers a diversified range of resources to help manage the full lifecycle of the wellsite from initial preparation and cellar installation to worksite abandonment and remediation, including generators, temperature-control equipment, and other wellsite accessories.  

•  

ReedHycalog is positioned as a premier technical business that works directly with Operators to improve their well construction efficiency and economics by providing performance-driven drill bits and borehole enlargement products. The product base is very specialized, centered on the technology that directly breaks the rock, primarily the sale and rental of high-quality, customized fixed cutter drill bits, utilizing industry-leading cutter technology. The product portfolio also includes roller cone drill bits, borehole enlargement tools that excel in the most demanding applications, and geographically focused coring tools and services. 

•  

M/D Totco is a leading independent provider of digital solutions to the oilfield, offering the full spectrum of sensors (both surface and downhole), data acquisition units, data aggregation, remote transmission and analytics. Supported by a global field service infrastructure, M/D Totco’s ability to deliver real-time data, edge analytics and digital solutions around critical parameters improves safety at the wellsite and increases operational efficiency for its customers, in the office. Using IntelliServ high-speed wired drill pipe telemetry services, M/D Totco harnesses NOV’s unique ability to connect downhole tools with surface equipment to enable the world’s first closed-loop drilling automation and optimization solutions, using heuristic functions and machine-learning capabilities to transform drilling performance. 

5 

Completion & Production Solutions provides the critical technologies necessary to optimize the well completion process and production phase of a well’s life cycle. Completion & Production Solutions business units include:  

•  

Intervention and Stimulation Equipment (“ISE”) designs and manufactures capital equipment and related consumables for oilfield pressure pumpers, coiled tubing service companies, wireline service companies, and well testing/flowback service companies. For hydraulic fracturing jobs, equipment manufactured and assembled by ISE has particularly strong positions in the higher-valued technologies and complex process equipment, such as hydration units, chemical additive systems, blenders, and control systems. In addition, the business unit produces essential consumable components that support pressure pumping spreads, including centrifugal pumps, valves, seats, and flowline equipment, along with equipment for surface well-test and flowback operations for ultimate production assurance. The business unit designs and manufactures equipment used to pump, mix, transport, and store cement used in the well construction process. ISE is also a leading provider of coiled tubing units, pressure control equipment, injector heads, and coiled tubing strings along with providing nitrogen support equipment and snubbing units. The business unit designs and manufactures wireline products for electric and slickline line applications, including critical pressure control equipment like wireline lubricators. ISE also provides integrated control systems, including condition based maintenance solutions into engineered equipment and other digital offerings that extend the life of equipment through real-time analytics, prevents non-productive time, and provides the capability to monitor operations remotely. ISE supports all of its equipment offering by providing comprehensive repair, recertification and other support services through an unmatched global network of aftermarket service and repair facilities. 

•  

Fiber Glass Systems is a market leader in the design, manufacture, and delivery of high-end composite piping systems, pressure vessels, tanks, and structures engineered to deliver customers with solutions to both corrosion and weight challenges across a wide array of applications. With manufacturing facilities spanning five continents and a sales and distribution network covering 40 countries, Fiber Glass Systems serves customers in the oil and gas, chemical, industrial, marine, offshore, subsea, fuel handling, and mining industries.  

•  

Process and Flow Technologies (“PFT”) provides integrated processing, production, and pumping equipment to customers in the oil and gas and industrial markets. For the production space they manufacture pumping technologies, including reciprocating, multistage, and progressive cavity pumps, as well as artificial lift support systems. For the midstream space PFT manufactures closures, transfer pumps, and valves. In the fluid processing space PFT designs and manufactures integrated systems that provide water treatment, separation, sand management, hydrate inhibition, and gas processing for use both on and offshore. Building on its portfolio of processing equipment, PFT offers a comprehensive technology suite of floating production systems including turret mooring systems and topside process modules that are designed to minimize execution risk and maximize operability and crew safety. PFT has the capability to partner with the operator from concept to deployment, as well as to simply operate as the equipment provider to both end customers as well as engineering, procurement and construction (“EPC”) firms. PFT, along with alliance partners, offers complete technology, engineering, and project management capabilities to supply comprehensive topside solutions for floating production, storage, and offloading (“FPSO”) vessels projects. In the Industrial market PFT manufactures pumping, mixing, agitation equipment, and heat exchangers for general use in industrial end-markets. This equipment is supported by a global aftermarket service organization.  

•  

Subsea Production Systems strives to improve subsea infrastructure through technical innovation that improves customer productivity and reduces cost. The business unit manufactures flexible subsea pipe systems, which are designed to operate under demanding offshore conditions around the world. Flexible pipes are highly engineered, complex structures that are helically wound and comprised of multiple unbonded layers of steel and composites, which allow them to withstand the demanding pressures and tensile loads required in deepwater production while remaining resistant to the fatigue induced by wave and tidal action. Subsea Production Systems also provides an assortment of critical equipment necessary for subsea production, such as subsea water injection systems, tie-in connector systems, subsea storage units, and other related equipment.  

•  

XL Systems provides integral and weld-on connectors for oil and gas applications, including conductor strings, surface casing, and liners, in sizes ranging from 16 to 72 inches in diameter. XL Systems is the sole provider of a proprietary line of wedge thread connections on large-bore pipe. In addition, XL  

6 

Systems supplies connector products in which the threads are machined on high-strength forging material and then welded to pipe.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Rig Technologies is the global leader in the engineering, manufacturing, and support of advanced drilling equipment packages and related capital equipment necessary to drill oil and gas wells anywhere in the world. Rig Technologies includes:  

•  

Rig Equipment designs, manufactures, and sells land rigs, complete offshore drilling packages, and drilling rig components designed to mechanize and automate many complex drilling rig processes. Rig Equipment’s product portfolio includes many equipment designs that changed the way rigs are operated, including the TDS top drive drilling system and automated roughneck. As the oil and gas industry has pushed the boundaries of geology and engineering with the move into the ultra-deepwater and onshore unconventional plays, the Rig Equipment unit has met the increasing challenges of its customer base with constant improvements to both its land and offshore rig equipment offerings. An example of this is the recently introduced NOVOSTM control system that offers drilling process automation, which enables dramatic improvements in drilling efficiency, reliability, and performance. The business unit also provides comprehensive aftermarket products and services to maximize its customers’ rig fleets’ drilling uptime. Aftermarket offerings include spare parts, repair, and rentals as well as comprehensive remote equipment monitoring, technical support, field service, and customer training through an extensive network of aftermarket service and repair facilities strategically located in major areas of drilling operations around the world.  

•  

Marine Construction designs, engineers, and manufactures heavy-lift cranes; a large range of knuckle-boom and lattice boom cranes, including active heave options; mooring, anchor, and deck handling machinery; a full range of models of jacking systems; and offshore wind tower and turbine installation, pipelay and construction vessel systems. Marine Construction serves the oil and gas industry as well as wind energy and other marine-based end markets.  

See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by segment and a geographical breakout of revenues and long-lived assets. We have also included a glossary of oilfield terms at the end of Item 1. “Business” of this Annual Report.  

Overview of Oil and Gas Well-Construction Processes  

The well-construction process starts with an operator and its contractors designating a suitable drilling site and placing a drilling rig at the location. The rig’s crew assembles the drill stem, which consists of drillpipe joints, specialized drilling components known as downhole tools, and a drill bit at the end. Modern rigs typically power the drill bit through a drilling motor, which is attached to the bottom of the drill stem and provides rotational force directly to the bit, or a top drive, a device suspended from the derrick that turns the entire drill stem. The evolution of drilling motors and top drives has facilitated operators’ abilities to drill directionally and horizontally as opposed to being limited to the traditional vertical trajectory. The Company sells and rents drilling motors, agitators, drill bits, downhole tools and drill pipe through Wellbore Technologies, and sells top drives through Rig Technologies. 

7 

Heavy drilling fluids, or “drilling muds,” are pumped down the drill stem and forced out through jets in the bit. The drilling mud returns to the surface through the space between the borehole wall and the drill stem, carrying with it the rock cuttings drilled out by the bit. The cuttings are removed from the mud by a solids control system (which can include shakers, centrifuges, and other specialized equipment) and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. The solids control system permits the mud, which is often comprised of expensive compounds, to be continuously reused and re-circulated back into the hole. Rig Technologies sells the large “mud pumps” that are used to pump drilling mud through the drill stem, down, and back up the hole. Wellbore Technologies sells and rents solids control equipment and provides solids control, waste management and drilling fluids services. 

Many operators internally coat the drill stem to improve its hydraulic efficiency and protect it from the corrosive fluids sometimes encountered during drilling; have hard-facing alloys applied to drillpipe joints, collars, and other components to protect tool joints and casing against wear; and inspect and assess the integrity of the drillpipe from time to time. Wellbore Technologies manufactures and sells drillpipe and provides coating, “hardfacing,” and drillpipe inspection and repair. As hole depth increases, additional joints of drillpipe are continuously added to the drill stem. When the bit becomes dull or the equipment at the bottom of the drill stem – including the drilling motors – otherwise requires servicing, the entire drill stem is pulled out of the hole and disassembled by disconnecting the joints of drillpipe. These are set aside or “racked,” the old bit is replaced or service is performed, and the drill stem is reassembled and lowered back into the hole (a process called “tripping”). During drilling and tripping operations, joints of drillpipe must be screwed together and tightened (“made up”), and loosened and unscrewed (“spun out”), a process that can create a considerable amount of stress on the pipe connections while also being quite time consuming. Rig Technologies provides drilling equipment to manipulate and maneuver the drillpipe in an efficient and safe manner, and Wellbore Technologies manufactures premium connections that are designed to reduce failure downhole and improve the rate of connection on the rig floor. When the hole has reached a specified depth, all the drillpipe is pulled out of the hole, and larger-diameter pipe known as casing is lowered into the hole and permanently cemented in place in order to protect against collapse and contamination of the hole. The casing is typically inspected before it is lowered into the hole, another service provided by Wellbore Technologies. Hole openers from Wellbore Technologies, which mount above the drill bits in the drill stem, open the tolerance of the hole to allow for easier and faster casing installation. Completion & Production Solutions manufactures cement mixing and pumping equipment that is used to cement the casing in place. The rig’s hoisting system raises and lowers the drill stem while drilling or tripping, and lowers casing into the wellbore. A conventional hoisting system is a block-and-tackle mechanism that works within the drilling rig’s derrick. The mechanism is lifted by a series of pulleys that are attached to the drawworks at the base of the derrick. Rig Technologies sells and installs drawworks and pipe hoisting-systems. 

During the course of normal drilling operations, the drill stem passes through different geological formations that exhibit varying pressure characteristics. If this pressure is not contained, oil, gas, and/or water would flow out of these formations to the surface. Containing reservoir pressures is accomplished primarily by the circulation of heavy drilling muds and secondarily by blowout preventers (“BOPs”), should the mud prove inadequate. Drilling muds are carefully designed to exhibit certain qualities that optimize the drilling process. In addition to containing formation pressure, they must provide power to the drilling motor; carry drilled solids to the surface; protect the drilled formations from being damaged; and cool the drill bit. Achieving these objectives often requires a formulation specific to a given well, requires a high level of cleanliness for better bottomhole assembly, and can involve the use of expensive chemicals as well as natural materials, such as certain types of clay. The fluid itself is often oil or more expensive synthetic mud. Given the cost, it is highly desirable to reuse as much of the drilling mud as possible. Solids control equipment such as shale shakers, centrifuges, cuttings dryers, and mud cleaners help accomplish this objective. Wellbore Technologies provides drilling fluids and rents, sells, operates, and services solids control equipment. Rig Technologies manufactures pumps that power the flow of the mud and fluid downhole and back to the surface. Drilling muds are formulated based on expected drilling conditions. However, as the hole is drilled, the drill stem may encounter a high-pressure zone where the mud density is inadequate to maintain sufficient pressure. Should efforts to “weight up” the mud to contain such a pressure kick fail, a blowout could result, whereby reservoir fluids would flow uncontrolled into the well. A series of BOPs are positioned at the top of the well and, when activated, form tight seals that prevent the escape of fluids to the surface. Conventional BOPs prevent normal rig operations when closed so the BOPs are activated only if drilling mud and normal well control procedures cannot safely contain the pressure. Rig Technologies engineers and manufactures BOPs. 

8 

The operations of the rig and the condition of the drilling mud are closely monitored by various sensors, which measure operating parameters such as the weight on the rig’s hook, the incidence of pressure kicks, the operation of the drilling mud pumps, weight on bit, etc. Wellbore Technologies sells and rents drilling rig instrumentation packages that perform these monitoring functions as well as additional sensors that continuously collect downhole data that can be transmitted back to the surface via wired drill pipe. Wellbore Technologies’ also offers drilling optimization and automation software and services that utilize this downhole data to maximize drilling performance by mitigating vibrations, dynamic and impact loading, and stick-slip, which ensures longer bit runs, and reduces the number of necessary trips. 

During drilling operations, the drilling rig and related equipment and tools are subject to severe stresses, pressures, and temperatures, as well as a corrosive environment, and require regular repair and maintenance. Rig Technologies supplies spare parts and can dispatch field service engineers with the expertise to quickly repair and maintain equipment, minimizing down time. 

Once a well has been drilled, cased, and cemented, and the operator determines hydrocarbons are present in commercial quantities, the well is then completed, and sometimes stimulated. After the casing is cemented in place, the well undergoes one of several completion processes to open the bottom of the wellbore and allow hydrocarbons to flow from the reservoir and up the well to the surface. The most commonly used technique is known as perforation. The perforating process entails lowering a string of shaped charges to the desired depth in the well using an electric wireline unit and firing the charges to perforate the casing or liner. Wireline units are also used to perform logging operations and other intervention services. At this point, the operator may decide, based on well design and flow rate, to further enhance production by stimulating the well. Unconventional wells almost always require stimulation through multi-stage hydraulic fracturing, a process by which a fluid or slurry is pumped down the well by large pumping units. This causes the underground formation to crack or fracture, opening up space for hydrocarbons to flow more freely out of tight rock formations. A proppant is suspended in the fluid and lodges in the cracks, propping them open and allowing hydrocarbons to flow after the fluid is gone. A coiled tubing unit is often used to drill out bridge plugs that isolate the many stages needed to stimulate a horizontal well. A coiled tubing unit utilizes a large continuous length of steel tubing to enter and traverse long laterals and perform completion and well remediation operations. As drilling laterals have lengthened in recent years, many operators are electing to use larger high-specification well service rigs to assist in several phases of the completion phase by conveying tools downhole and drilling out completion plugs. Workover rigs are similar to drilling rigs in their capabilities to handle tubing but are usually smaller and somewhat less sophisticated. Completion & Production Solutions provides the essential equipment necessary for the entirety of the completion and stimulation process, designing and manufacturing coiled tubing units, wireline units, pressure pumping equipment, completion tools, snubbing units, nitrogen units, and treating iron. In addition, the well completion process creates a large amount of wear and tear on the equipment used, which creates healthy demand for Completion & Production Solutions’ aftermarket services. The use of coiled tubing and wireline equipment typically requires the use of a BOP to ensure safety during operations. Completion & Production Solutions manufactures this well control equipment. Due to the corrosive nature of many produced fluids, production tubing is often inspected and coated, services offered by Wellbore Technologies. Increasingly, operators choose to use corrosion-resistant composite materials or alloys in the process, which are also sold by Completion & Production Solutions. 

Once the well has been stimulated, it is usually ready to be capped with a production wellhead and linked up to a gathering system where it can begin producing and generating cash flow for the operator. This process is significantly more involved offshore, where pipes are often required to reach thousands of feet from the wellhead back to the surface, contending with tides, debris, and weather. The development of flexible pipe solved many of the issues associated with linking offshore wells back to their respective FPSOs, which serve as gathering hubs, sometimes in some of the most remote areas of the world. Completion & Production Solutions manufactures flexible subsea pipe in addition to offering turret mooring systems and topside process modules for FPSOs.  

Natural decline rates set in as a well ages, and workover procedures and other services may be necessary to extend its life and increase its production rate. Over time, downhole equipment, casing, or tubing may need to be serviced or replaced. When producing wells require anything from routine maintenance to major modifications and repair, a well servicing rig is typically needed. Workover rigs are used to disassemble the wellhead, tubing and other completion components of an existing well in order to stimulate or remediate the well. As a well continues to mature, its natural reservoir pressure may no longer be enough to force fluids to the surface. Artificial lift equipment is then typically installed, which adds energy to the fluid column in a wellbore using one of several types of pumps. In addition to reduced pressure, the water cut of a well’s production tends to increase as the well ages, which typically requires the  

9 

addition of water treatment and separation equipment. The Company offers a comprehensive range of workover rigs through Rig Technologies. Tubing and sucker rods removed from a well during a well remediation operation are often inspected to determine their suitability to be reused in the well, a service Wellbore Technologies provides. Completion & Production Solutions offers several types of artificial lift and related support systems as well as integrated systems that provide water treatment, separation, hydrate inhibition, and gas processing.  

Markets and Competition 

The Company’s customers are predominantly service companies and oil and gas companies. Products within Wellbore Technologies and Completion & Production Solutions are sold and rented worldwide through NOV’s sales force and through commissioned representatives. Substantially all of Rig Technologies’ capital equipment and spare parts sales, and a large portion of smaller pumps and parts sales, are made through NOV’s direct sales force and distribution service centers. Sales to foreign oil companies are often made with or through representative arrangements.  

The Company’s competition consists primarily of publicly traded oilfield service and equipment companies and smaller independent equipment manufacturers. 

The Company’s foreign operations, which include significant operations in the Middle East, Africa and Latin America, Russia, the Far East, Canada and Europe are subject to the risks normally associated with conducting business in foreign countries, including foreign currency exchange risks and uncertain political and economic environments, which may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. Government-owned petroleum companies located in some of the countries in which the Company operates have adopted policies (or are subject to governmental policies) giving preference to the purchase of goods and services from companies that are majority-owned by local nationals. As a result of such policies, the Company relies on joint ventures, license arrangements, and other business combinations with local nationals in these countries. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding geographic revenue information.  

2019 Acquisitions and Other Investments  

During 2019, the Company completed a total of three acquisitions and other investments for a total cash consideration of $180 million, net of cash acquired.  

Influence of Oil and Gas Activity Levels on the Company’s Business  

The oil and gas industry has historically experienced significant volatility. Demand for the Company’s products and services depends primarily upon the general level of activity in the oil and gas industry worldwide. Oil and gas activity is in turn heavily influenced by, among other factors, oil and gas prices worldwide. High levels of drilling and well remediation generally spurs demand for the Company’s products and services. Additionally, high levels of oil and gas activity increase cash flows available for oil and gas companies, drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, and manufacturers of OCTG to invest in equipment that the Company sells.  

See additional discussion on the current worldwide economic environment and related oil and gas activity levels in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

10 

Seasonal Nature of the Company’s Business  

Historically, activity levels of some of the Company’s segments have followed seasonal trends to some degree. Extremely harsh winter weather can reduce oilfield operations in far northern or high-altitude locations, including parts of Colorado, Canada, Russia and China, and the annual thaw (or “breakup”) in Canada makes some unimproved roads inaccessible to heavy equipment during part of each second quarter. Both situations temporarily reduce demand for the Company’s products and services in the effected geographic area, although revenues generally recover once conditions improve. Fluctuations in customer’s activity levels caused by national or customary holiday seasons and annual budgetary cycles can also affect their spending levels with the Company, leading to both temporary local decreases and increases in sales. Over the past few years, the Company has seen a more pronounced level of spending during the fourth quarter, and a decline in the first quarter, in certain of its businesses, which it believes is related to annual budgetary cycles. While the Company anticipates that the seasonal and other trends described above may continue, there can be no guarantee that spending by the Company’s customers will continue to follow patterns seen in the past.  

Research and New Product Development and Intellectual Property  

The Company believes that it has been a leader in the development of new technology and equipment to enhance the safety and productivity of drilling and well servicing processes and that its sales and earnings have been dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of new or improved products. It also invests in new technologies related to its non-oil and gas business as well as renewable energy-related technologies. Through its internal development programs and certain acquisitions, the Company has assembled an extensive array of technologies protected by a substantial number of trademarks, for both goods and services, patents, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights.  

As of December 31, 2019, the Company held a substantial number of granted patents and pending patent applications worldwide, including U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications as well as patents and patent applications in a variety of other countries. Expiration dates of such patents range from 2020 to 2035. Additionally, the Company maintains a substantial number of trademarks for both goods and services and maintains a number of trade secrets.  

Although the Company believes that this intellectual property has value, competitive products with different designs have been successfully developed and marketed by others. The Company considers the quality and timely delivery of its products, the service it provides to its customers, and the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel to be as important as its intellectual property in its ability to compete. While the Company stresses the importance of its research and development programs, the technical challenges and market uncertainties associated with the development and successful introduction of new products are such that there can be no assurance that the Company will realize future revenue from new products.  

Manufacturing and Service Locations  

The manufacturing processes for the Company’s products generally consist of machining, welding and fabrication, heat treating, assembly of manufactured and purchased components, and testing. Most equipment is manufactured primarily from alloy steel. The availability and price of alloy steel castings, forgings, purchased components, and bar stock is critical to the production and timing of shipments.  

Wellbore Technologies designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies used to perform drilling operations, and offers services that optimize their performance, including: solids control and waste management equipment and services, drilling fluids, premium drillpipe, wired pipe, drilling optimization services, tubular inspection and coating services, instrumentation, downhole tools, and drill bits. Primary facilities are located in Houston, Conroe, Navasota, and Cedar Park, Texas; Veracruz, Mexico; and Dubai, UAE.  

Completion & Production Solutions integrates technologies for well completions and oil and gas production. The segment designs, manufactures, and sells equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including pressure pumping trucks, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, and manifolds; well intervention, including coiled tubing units, coiled tubing, and wireline units and tools; cementing products for pumping, mixing, transport, and storage; onshore production, including fluid processing, composite pipe, surface transfer and progressive cavity pumps, and artificial lift systems; and offshore production, including floating production systems and subsea production technologies. Primary facilities are located in Houston, and Fort Worth, Texas; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Senai, Malaysia; Qingdau, Shandong, China; Kalundborg, Denmark; Superporto du Acu, Brazil; Manchester, England; and Aberdeenshire, Scotland, UK.  

11 

Rig Technologies provides drilling rig components, complete land drilling rigs, and offshore drilling equipment packages. Primary manufacturing facilities are located in Houston, Texas; Orange, California; New Iberia, Louisiana; Singapore; and Dubai, UAE.  

Raw Materials  

The Company believes that materials and components used in its operations are generally available from multiple sources. The prices paid by the Company for its raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel, and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company has experienced rising, declining, and stable prices for milled steel and standard grades in line with broader economic activity and has generally seen specialty alloy prices continue to rise, driven primarily by escalation in the price of the alloying agents. The Company has generally been successful in its effort to mitigate the financial impact of higher raw materials costs on its operations by applying surcharges to, and adjusting prices on, the products it sells. Higher prices and lower availability of steel and other raw materials the Company uses in its business may adversely impact future periods.  

Backlog  

The Company monitors its backlog of orders within its Completion & Production Solutions and Rig Technologies segments to guide its planning. Backlog includes orders which typically require more than three months to manufacture and deliver.  

Backlog measurements are made on the basis of written orders that are firm but may be defaulted upon by the customer in some instances. Most require reimbursement to the Company for costs incurred in such an event. There can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue, or that the Company will earn a profit on backlog work. Backlog for Completion & Production Solutions at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was $1.3 billion, $0.9 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. Backlog for Rig Technologies at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, was $3.0 billion, $3.1 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively.  

Employees  

At December 31, 2019, the Company had a total of 35,479 employees, of which 1,669 were temporary employees and 500 were subject to collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. Additionally, certain employees in various foreign locations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Based upon the geographical diversification of these employees, we do not believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole.  

Available Information  

The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 7909 Parkwood Circle Drive, Houston, Texas 77036. Its telephone number is (713) 346-7500. Further information about the Company’s products and services can be found on its website at: http://www.nov.com. The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NOV”. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all related amendments are available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of the Company’s website, www.nov.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company’s Code of Ethics is also posted on its website.  

12 

ITEM 1A.  

RISK FACTORS